Item 1A. Risk Factors herein. 2 Table of Contents Data Storage Media Industry The global data storage market, including hardware and services, is estimated to be in excess of $100 billion, of which the removable data storage media market is approximately $20 billion including magnetic and optical media, flash and solid state drives, removable and external hard disk drives. Our removable data storage media products are designed to help users capture, create, protect, preserve and retrieve valuable digital assets. Our primary products include recordable and rewritable optical discs, magnetic tape cartridges, USB flash drives, and external and removable hard drives used by business and individual customers. Demand for data storage capacity is expected to grow for the next several years, driven by the rapid growth of information in digital form, the growth of complex databases as a result of new hardware and software applications, increased ability to access data remotely and across multiple locations, increased regulatory requirements for record retention and the pervasive use of the Internet. This increased quantity of data has put data security and archiving at the forefront of critical business processes. Further, the continued growth in the variety and functionality of consumer electronic devices has increased demand for a range of convenient, low-cost removable data storage media to capture, store, edit and manage data, photographs, video, images and music. Within the data storage media industry, the magnetic tape market remains important to Imation with growing demand for storage capacity across a substantial installed base of commercial information technology users, a relatively small number of competitors and high barriers to entry. Imation enjoys a leading market share, significant intellectual property portfolio, solid industry reputation and relationships among key original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Many of our legacy tape formats, which are proprietary or semi-proprietary, have the highest gross profit margins among all our products. While the need for removable data storage capacity is expected to grow slightly, the removable media market size is expected to decline in terms of revenue. The magnetic tape industry has consistently addressed the growth in demand for storage capacity with new non-proprietary storage formats with higher capacity cartridges resulting in lower cost per gigabyte and a decline in actual number of units of media shipped. In addition, these non-proprietary “open” formats experience greater price competition than proprietary formats. Non-proprietary open format tape typically is more competitive with lower gross margins and continues to gain share against legacy formats. These factors inhibit the overall revenue growth of the industry. In the current economic environment, we have seen this trend accelerate, especially among some of our enterprise class customers, most notably financial institutions which represent approximately 40 percent of our magnetic tape revenues. In addition, lower cost disk and optimization strategies such as virtual tape and de-duplication remain a factor in certain sectors of the market. As a result, we expect our tape revenue and margins to continue to be under pressure as these factors result in a decline in the size of the total tape media market over time and a shift in the mix of total tape revenue toward lower margin open formats. Our recordable optical media product sales are primarily composed of CDs and DVDs sold throughout the world under various brands we own or control (Imation, Memorex and TDK Life on Record) as well as under a distribution agreement for the HP brand. We also have a majority interest in Global Data Media (GDM) a sales and marketing joint venture for optical media. While our different brands have varying strengths in different regions of the world, in aggregate we have the leading overall market share for recordable optical media globally. While the overall market for CDs and DVDs is declining as hard disk and flash media replace optical media in some applications such as music and video recording, we have increased both our optical revenue and market share through our acquisitions. In addition, we sell Blu-ray™ recordable media as a new and emerging higher capacity format targeted at the recording of high definition video content. Our optical media products are sold through a variety of retail and commercial distribution channels and sourced from manufacturers primarily in Taiwan and India. Our flash media sales are primarily composed of USB flash drives sold through a variety of retail and commercial distribution channels around the world under the Imation, Memorex and TDK Life on Record brands and are sourced from manufacturers in Asia. The removable flash media market is competitive with highly variable price swings driven by NAND chip manufacturing volumes and capacity as well as market demand in the much larger embedded flash market. Focused and efficient sourcing and distribution, as well as diligent management of inventories, channel placement and promotional activity, are critical elements for success in this market. These are areas of focus as we implement our strategy focused on our transformation to a brand and product management company (as further described in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations herein), in addition to USB flash drives, we sell a limited amount of flash cards and solid state drives (SSD). 3 Table of Contents Audio and Video Consumer Electronics Industry We also participate in the audio and video marketplace of the much larger consumer electronics market. The consumer electronics market is broadly defined as traditional analog-based audio and video devices as well as digital-based audio and video hardware and accessories for recording and replaying audio and video content. The accessories market includes cases, cleaning and labeling products, cables and connectors sold through retail outlets and distribution channels. Both consumer electronic products and accessories are sourced from manufacturers throughout Asia. Consumer electronic products are sold based on a variety of factors, including brand and reputation, product features and designs, distribution coverage, innovation and price. The global consumer electronics market is a very large and highly diverse market in terms of competitors, channels and products. Our current product offerings focus on a subset of this market which we estimate to be approximately $30 billion (audio and video products and accessories). Products we sell include CD and DVD players, LCD displays (flat panel televisions and digital picture frames), iPod® accessories, MP3 players, karaoke machines, and alarm clocks and clock-radios sold primarily under the Memorex brand name and certain character-based properties under license. We compete primarily in mass merchant channels for second tier brand preference in the United States and are expanding into Canada, Mexico and Europe with the Memorex brand, targeting female consumers, and the XtremeMac brand, targeting the Apple enthusiast. Business Segments We operate in two broad market categories: (1) removable data storage media products and accessories and (2) audio and video consumer electronic products and accessories (electronic products). Data Storage Media Products and Accessories The Data Storage Media market is organized, managed and reported, internally and externally, as three segments differentiated by the regional markets we serve: Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. Each of these segments has the responsibility for selling virtually all of our product lines except for consumer electronic products which are sold primarily through our Electronic Products segment. The Americas segment, our largest segment by revenue, includes North America, South America and the Caribbean. The United States represents the largest current market for our products. It has a great variety and sophistication of distribution channels from value-added resellers, OEMs, retail outlets, mass merchants and on-line resellers. The countries of South America and the Caribbean represent potential growth markets with increasing penetration of Information Technology in the commercial and consumer markets. Europe is our second largest segment by revenue and also incorporates our business results in most of the Middle East, Africa and most of the results of GDM. Western Europe exhibits traits similar to North America in terms of overall breadth of products, high penetration of end user markets and breadth and sophistication of distribution channels. Emerging markets in Eastern Europe and the Middle East represent potential growth markets for our products as IT end user and consumer markets grow. Asia Pacific (APAC) is our smallest segment in terms of revenue and largest segment in terms of geographic area covered and populations served. It also has the widest diversity of languages, cultures and currencies of any of our segments. Japan is the single largest market in APAC and is similar to North America and Western Europe in terms of overall penetration of IT into the market, though distribution channels are less developed than those in other regions. 4 Table of Contents Audio and Video Consumer Electronic Products and Accessories We entered into the consumer electronics market with the Memcorp acquisition during the third quarter of 2007 and created our Electronic Products (EP) segment. The EP segment sells consumer electronics and is currently focused primarily in North America and primarily under the Memorex brand name. This segment experiences some degree of seasonality with its focus on consumer channels resulting in the second half of the year being relatively stronger than the first. The chart below breaks out our 2008 revenue by segment: See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our business segments and geographic information. Description of Business Products and Application Areas The table below describes our revenue by product category. Optical products consist of recordable CDs, DVDs and Blu-ray™. Magnetic products consist of data storage tape media, floppy diskettes and audio and video tape products. Flash products consist of USB flash drives, flash cards and SSD and are sold primarily under the Memorex brand. Electronic products consist of consumer electronic products sold by the Memcorp business. Accessories and other include CD and DVD labeling products, storage cases and cleaning products as well as products and services not otherwise classified. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % of % of % of (Dollars in millions) Revenue Total Revenue Total Revenue Total Optical $ 1,025.2 47.6 % $ 954.2 46.3 % $ 680.3 42.9 % Magnetic 644.4 29.9 % 703.9 34.1 % 660.8 41.7 % Flash 99.2 4.6 % 157.1 7.6 % 146.6 9.3 % Electronic products, accessories and other 385.8 17.9 % 246.8 12.0 % 97.0 6.1 % Total $ 2,154.6 $ 2,062.0 $ 1,584.7 Data storage products, whether for business or consumer applications, are addressed by our broad range of media across magnetic, optical, solid state USB flash drives and hard disk platforms. Storage capacities on more established products range from 650 megabyte CD-R (recordable) and CD-RW (rewritable) optical discs to 9.4 gigabyte (GB) double-sided DVD optical discs. Products include USB flash drives with capacities ranging from 1GB up to 32GB. The capacities for USB flash drive and hard disk continue to increase as new products are introduced. Our Blu-ray™ recordable media currently offers 25GB to 50GB of capacity. Capacity for removable hard disk drive cartridges ranges from 40GB to 1terabyte (TB). 5 Table of Contents Our tape products are used for back-up, business and operational continuity planning, disaster recovery, near-line data storage and retrieval, cost-effective mass storage and archival storage and are used across major application areas, including enterprise data centers, the network server environment and small-medium businesses. Native capacity of our tape products ranges from less than 10GB up to 1TB per piece of media. Our consumer electronics portfolio includes CD and DVD players, LCD displays (flat panel televisions and digital picture frames), iPod® accessories, MP3 players, karaoke machines, and alarm clocks and clock-radios sold primarily under the Memorex brand name and certain character-based properties under license. The portfolio continues to evolve with consumer demand and with development of our brands. Customers, Marketing and Distribution As described above, our removable data storage media products are used by business customers and by individual consumers and our electronic products are sold primarily to individual consumers. No one customer constituted 10 percent or more of our revenue in 2008, 2007 or 2006. Our products are sold through a combination of distributors, wholesalers, value-added resellers, OEMs and retail outlets. Worldwide, approximately 49 percent of our 2008 revenue came from distributors, 43 percent came from the retail channel and 8 percent came from OEMs. We maintain a company sales force of approximately 320 representatives to generate sales of our products around the world. We have 47 sales offices worldwide, with 5 in the United States and 42 internationally. We work with OEMs that develop or market tape drives, tape libraries, tape automation systems and servers with storage subsystems for differing customer applications. OEMs include Sun StorageTek, IBM, HP and Tandberg. We are the sole source of supply for certain tape cartridges for use with Sun StorageTek, IBM and Tandberg drives used in the high-end data center. The development of future tape formats with key OEMs is an important element in our ability to successfully compete in the tape market and the loss of such a relationship could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2007, we began to enhance and build our brand management capabilities as we expanded our brand portfolio. We are building a brand and marketing management organization, comprised of individuals from both within and outside of Imation as well as acquired businesses, combining industry experience and consumer marketing expertise. Competition The global market for our products is highly competitive and characterized by continuing changes in technology, frequent new product introductions and performance improvements, diverse distribution channels, aggressive marketing and pricing practices and ongoing variable price erosion. Competition is based on a multitude of factors, including brand strength, distribution presence and capability, channel knowledge and expertise, geographic availability, breadth of product line, product cost, media capacity, access speed and performance, durability, reliability, scalability and compatibility. Our primary competitors in magnetic tape include FUJIFILM Corporation; Sony Corporation and Hitachi Maxell Ltd. Our primary competitors in optical include Sony Corporation; Hitachi Maxell Ltd; Verbatim Corporation and SanDisk Corporation. Our primary competitors in flash include SanDisk Corporation; Lexar Media, Inc.; PNY Electronics, Inc.; and Kingston Technology, Inc. Our primary competitors in external and removable hard drives include WD, Seagate Technology, LaCie, Iomega Corporation and Tandberg. While these companies compete in the removable data storage media market, most of them generally do not report financial results for these business lines on a stand-alone basis. Therefore, it is difficult for us to estimate our relative market share. However, we use a variety of industry sources to estimate market size and share and we estimate that in 2008, the latest period for which data is available, we held a leading market share in magnetic and optical products with more than one-third of those markets. We estimated that we held a much smaller market share in flash and removable and external hard disk products. 6 Table of Contents Our competitors in the consumer electronics market are numerous manufacturers and brands, including the iHome, Philips, RCA®, VIZIO® and Griffin brands, some of which are much larger companies than Imation. Our total of the United States consumer electronics market share is currently less than one percent. Manufacturing We conduct coating operations for the manufacture of magnetic data storage tape products at our facility in Weatherford, Oklahoma, which is certified to ISO 9001:2000 quality standards and has a state-of-the-art magnetic tape coating capability that began operation in 2004. In 2007, we announced our intention to exit our Wahpeton, North Dakota facility and in 2008 we announced our intention to exit our Camarillo, California facility. By the end of 2008 we ceased manufacturing operations at both the Wahpeton, North Dakota facility and the Camarillo, California facility. As part of those steps we consolidated all coating activity in Weatherford, Oklahoma and either ended or outsourced other manufacturing activities occurring in those locations by the end of 2008. Those outsourced include conversion of coated tape into finished cartridges and manufacture of plastic components. To manufacture magnetic tape media, a thin film material is precisely and uniformly coated with a magnetic dispersion solution. The coating of high quality magnetic tape media requires exacting manufacturing process steps with precise physical, electrical and chemical tolerances as well as significant technical expertise in several areas including coating processes, servo-writing and magnetic and material science. To meet the market requirements for future advanced tape media products with higher data transfer rates, greater data density, and faster tape speeds, we must be capable of coating thinner substrates with smaller particle sizes and increased uniformity, surface smoothness and bit and track density. We do not manufacture optical media, removable or external hard disk, USB flash drive products or consumer electronic products or storage accessories. They are currently sourced from manufacturing plants outside the United States. Raw Materials and Other Purchased Products The principal raw materials we use for the manufacture of removable data storage media products include plastic resins, polyester films, magnetic pigments, specialty chemicals and solvents. We make significant purchases of these and other materials and components for use in our manufacturing operations from domestic and foreign sources. There are two sources of supply for the base film, one of which supplies the newer, more advanced base film, and there are two sources for the metal particulate pigments on which the industry relies for use in the manufacture of higher capacity magnetic data storage cartridges. If supply was disrupted or prices significantly increased for any of these key materials, our business and the business of our competitors could be negatively impacted. We also rely on certain partners as sole suppliers for components and raw materials used in our manufacturing processes. The loss of these certain suppliers could have a material adverse impact on the business. Except as noted above, we are not overly dependent on any single supplier of raw materials. On July 31, 2007, we acquired substantially all of the assets relating to the marketing, distribution, sales, customer service and support of removable recording media products, accessory products and ancillary products being sold under the TDK Life on Record brand name (TDK Recording Media), from TDK Corporation, a Japanese corporation (TDK), including the assets or capital stock of TDK’s operating subsidiaries engaged in the TDK Recording Media business. In conjunction with our acquisition of the TDK Recording Media business we also entered into a supply agreement, dated July 31, 2007, with TDK (Supply Agreement), to purchase a limited number of LTO Tape media and Blu-ray™ removable recording media products and accessory products for resale under the TDK Life on Record brand name. TDK agreed to supply such products on competitive terms, and TDK agreed not to sell any such products to third parties for resale under the TDK Life on Record brand name during the term of the trademark license agreements. The trademark license agreements will continue unless terminated by TDK no earlier than 2032. The Supply Agreement will continue for the greater of five years or for so long as TDK manufactures any of the products. 7 Table of Contents We also make significant purchases of finished and semi-finished products, including optical media and USB flash drives, certain finished tape and tape cartridges and electronic products, primarily from Asian suppliers. For our optical media, we procure our supply primarily from three companies. If supply were disrupted from any of these companies, our business could be negatively impacted. The loss of these certain suppliers could have a material adverse impact on the business. We view the sourcing and distribution of finished goods as a critical success factor for those products we do not manufacture. Therefore, we seek to establish and maintain strategic sourcing relationships with several key suppliers. Research and Development Development and timely introduction of new removable data storage media products are important to our future success. We maintain an advanced research facility and invest resources in researching and developing potential new products and improving existing products. We invest in research, development and capital equipment in order to remain competitive and successfully develop, manufacture and source media that meets market requirements. We also invest, through third party industrial designers, in design and feature enhancements for our removable and external hard drive and consumer electronic products. We are also engaged in certain research programs that do not yet have specific commercialized products in the market, related to future generations of magnetic tape, both on our own and in collaboration with other organizations. Our research and development (R&D) expense was $23.6 million, $38.2 million and $50.0 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In 2007, we announced a strategy focused on our transformation to a brand and product management company. This transformation included a cost reduction program in our manufacturing and research and development organization. The decrease in our 2008 R&D expense was due to an alignment of our resources with our strategic direction. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements to protect the intellectual property rights related to our products. We register our patents and trademarks in the United States and in a number of other countries where we do business. United States patents are currently granted for a term of twenty years from the date a patent application is filed. United States trademark registrations are for a term of ten years and are renewable every ten years as long as the trademarks are used in the regular course of trade. Pursuant to trademark license agreements between TDK and Imation and its affiliates, TDK granted Imation and its affiliates a long-term exclusive license to use the TDK Life on Record brand for current and future recordable magnetic, optical, flash media and accessory products globally. That right is revocable by TDK in the year 2032, with a one year wind-down. During 2008, we were awarded 28 United States patents and at the end of the year held over 345 patents in the United States. Sourcing, Supply Chain and Distribution As our revenue mix shifts increasingly to sales from products we do not manufacture, our sourcing, supply chain and distribution capabilities worldwide are increasingly important. As a result, in 2008 we centralized our corporate operations organization to coordinate sourcing for purchased finished goods products across all our businesses. We also have consolidated distribution centers in the United States, Europe and parts of Asia. Employees At December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 1,570 people worldwide, with approximately 810 employed in the United States and approximately 760 employed internationally. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local environmental laws. Environmental remediation costs are accrued when a probable liability has been determined and the amount of such liability has been reasonably estimated. These accruals are reviewed periodically as remediation and investigatory activities proceed and are adjusted accordingly. Compliance with environmental regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our financial results. As of December 31, 2008, we had environmental-related accruals totaling $0.5 million and we had minor remedial activities underway at one of our facilities. We believe that our accruals are adequate, though there can be no assurance that the amount of expense relating to remedial actions and compliance with applicable environmental laws will not exceed the amounts reflected in our accruals. 8 Table of Contents International Operations Approximately 58 percent of our total 2008 revenue came from sales outside the United States, primarily through subsidiaries, sales offices, distributors and relationships with OEMs throughout Europe, Asia, Latin America and Canada. The removable data storage market is at different levels of development and penetration in different geographic regions. As a result, growth rates will typically vary in different application areas and product categories in different parts of the world. Our EP segment does not have material operations internationally. We do not manufacture outside the United States. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information by geographic region. As discussed under Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Form 10-K, our international operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties that are not present in our domestic operations. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information regarding our executive officers as of February 27, 2009 is set forth below. Frank P. Russomanno, age 61, is President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors. He became President and Chief Executive Officer in April 2007, was acting Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and President from November 2006 to April 2007 and was Chief Operating Officer from November 2003 to November 2006. He joined Imation at spin-off in July 1996. Prior to assuming his current responsibilities, he held various leadership positions with Imation, including Corporate Sales and Marketing Director, President of Data Storage and Information Management and General Manager of Advanced Imaging Technologies. Prior to joining Imation, he held multiple sales and marketing positions with 3M Company, including European Business Director. James C. Ellis, age 51, is Vice President, Strategy and M&A, a position he has held since January 2008. He has been with Imation since spin-off in July 1996. Prior to assuming his current responsibilities, he had various leadership positions within Imation, including Vice President Strategic Growth Programs from April 2007 to January 2008, General Manager of Strategic Growth Programs from January 2007 to April 2007, General Manager Global Product Strategy from January 2005 to December 2006, General Manager of New Business Ventures from June 2004 to December 2004, General Manager Data Storage & Information Management from May 2004 to June 2004, Director of Strategic Marketing from March 2001 to April 2004, Product Marketing Manager from May 2000 to February 2001, and Enterprise Storage Manager from July 1996 to April 2000. Prior to joining Imation, he held various business and technical positions with 3M Company. Peter A. Koehn, age 48, is Vice President, Global Operations, a position he has held since August 2007. Prior to assuming his current responsibilities, he was Vice President and Corporate Controller. He joined Imation in 2000 as Division Controller for Data Storage and Information Management and was named Corporate Controller in 2004 and Vice President in 2005. Dr. Subodh Kulkarni, age 44, is Vice President, Global Commercial Business, R&D and Manufacturing, a position he has held since August 2007. He has been with Imation since spin-off. Prior to assuming his current responsibilities, he was appointed Vice President, R&D and Manufacturing in October 2006. He was appointed Vice President of R&D in March 2006, Executive Director of R&D in 2004 and has held various positions leading the R&D organization. Mark E. Lucas, age 54, will join Imation as President and Chief Operating Officer (COO), effective March 17, 2009. He has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Geneva Watch Group, from November 2005 to August 2008. Prior to that role, Mr. Lucas served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Altec Lansing Technologies, a manufacturer of consumer audio equipment, from June 2001 to August 2005. Mr. Lucas had been a member of the Board of Directors of Imation since April 2007 and served as a member of the Company’s Audit and Finance Committee and Compensation Committee. Mr. Lucas resigned from the Board of Directors of Imation Corp. in connection with this appointment. Mr. Lucas’s resignation from the Board of Directors was a requirement of his employment. 9 Table of Contents Scott J. Robinson, age 42, was appointed Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in August 2007. He joined Imation in March 2004 and held the position of Chief Accountant until taking his current position. Prior to joining Imation, he was at Deluxe Corporation, where he held the position of Assistant Corporate Controller from August 2002 to March 2004 and held the position of Director of Internal Audit from June 1999 to August 2002. John L. Sullivan, age 54, is Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, a position he has held since joining Imation in August 1998. He joined Imation from Silicon Graphics, where he most recently was Vice President, General Counsel. Prior to joining Silicon Graphics, he held several positions with Cray Research from 1989 to 1997, including the positions of General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from 1995 to 1997. Cray Research became part of Silicon Graphics in 1996. Paul R. Zeller, age 48, is Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, a position he has held since August 2004. He has been with Imation since spin-off and held the position of Corporate Controller from May 1998 until taking his current position. Prior to joining Imation, he held several accounting management positions with 3M Company. Availability of SEC Reports Our website address is www.imation.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Materials posted on our website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this Form 10-K or our other SEC filings, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our global business is subject to a number of risks related to the global credit crisis and economic downturn. As widely reported, markets globally have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Worldwide economic conditions have deteriorated, with many countries, including the United States, formally announcing that their economies are in a recession. This downturn is evidenced by declining revenues and profitability across many industries, increased unemployment, reduced capital spending, increasing rates of consumer default and corporate bankruptcies, and decreased consumer confidence and spending. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions. There can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in global financial markets in major economies. We cannot predict the duration or severity of this economic downturn or the extent of which the global economic conditions could negatively effect our business, operating results and financial condition. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. Unfavorable economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to improve our performance. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders or non-payment of amounts owed to Imation. The decline in economic conditions may also diminish consumer demand for our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The significant and rapid downturn in the global economy has negatively affected demand for both our commercial and consumer product lines, and is impacting suppliers, distributors and channel partners. For example, as a result of the financial market turmoil, data center customers in several large financial institutions scaled back, deferred or stopped purchase activity altogether. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the United States and other countries. 10 Table of Contents Significant litigation matters could result in large costs and distraction to our business. We are subject to various pending or threatened legal actions, including the Philips and SanDisk disputes and in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is always subject to many uncertainties and outcomes that are not predictable. We cannot ascertain the ultimate aggregate amount of any monetary liability or financial impact that may be incurred by us in litigation. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings herein for a description of our disputes with Philips and SanDisk. Continued disruption in United States and international credit markets may adversely affect our ability to draw on our credits lines or obtain financing from alternative sources on reasonable terms or at all, and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Recent disruptions in national and international credit markets have lead to a scarcity of credit, tighter lending standards and higher interest rates on business loans. Continued disruption may materially limit our credit availability. We could incur significant expenses or shortfalls in anticipated cash generated as a result of unanticipated events in our business or competitive, regulatory, or other changes in the markets in which we compete. As a result, we may, in the future, need to obtain financing. The availability of such financing is limited by the tightening of the global credit markets. If our lenders are adversely affected by economic conditions in domestic or international capital markets, they may become unwilling or unable to fund borrowings under their credit facilities with us. In such a case, we might not be able to locate replacement lenders or other sources of financing, on reasonable terms, or at all, which could have a material and adverse impact on our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other corporate needs. Failure of lenders to provide sufficient financing may constrain our ability to operate or grow the business and to make complementary strategic business and/or brand acquisitions. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to extend our current credit facilities or to enter into a new credit facility could be impaired if current market conditions continue or worsen. Lenders may seek more restrictive lending provisions and higher interest rates that may reduce our borrowing capacity and increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If other financing is not available on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to respond adequately to these changes or maintain our business, which could adversely affect our operating results and the market price of our common stock. Our financial success depends in part on our ability to profitably grow our business in the consumer electronics market. One element of our strategy is the sourcing of a portfolio of consumer video, audio and electronic products. This is a strategic segment where we have had limited sales and marketing experience. Our financial success is dependent on successfully increasing our brand portfolio and product offerings to profitably grow market share in the United States and worldwide. If we are not successful in profitably expanding our product portfolio, creating brand awareness and developing new customers our financial results could be impacted. Additionally, in an economic recession or under other adverse economic conditions described above, customers and vendors could make fewer purchases of our products, and may be more likely to fail to meet contractual terms or their payment obligations and product areas such as consumer electronics may be significantly affected. Our international operations subject us to economic risk as our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in political, economic and other conditions and foreign currency fluctuations. We conduct our business on a global basis, with 58 percent of our 2008 revenue derived from operations outside of the United States. Our international operations may be subject to various risks which are not present in domestic operations, including political and economic instability, terrorist activity, the possibility of expropriation, trade tariffs or embargoes, unfavorable tax laws, restrictions on royalties, dividend and currency remittances, changes in foreign laws and regulations, requirements for governmental approvals for new ventures and local participation in operations such as local equity ownership and workers’ councils. In addition, our business and financial results are affected by fluctuations in world financial markets. Changes in local and regional economic conditions, including fluctuations in exchange rates, may affect product demand in our non-U.S. operations and export markets. Foreign currency fluctuations can also affect reported profits of our non-U.S. operations where transactions are generally denominated in local currencies. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the prices we pay suppliers for materials used in our products. Our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars. 11 Table of Contents Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates may give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of non-U.S. operating units are translated into U.S. dollars. Given that the majority of our revenues are non-U.S. based, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations. While these factors or the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. If we do not successfully implement our global restructuring plans and realize the benefits expected from the restructuring, our financial results will be affected. We have announced multiple restructuring plans focused on transforming Imation into a brand and product management company. This transformation has included cost reduction restructuring programs in our manufacturing and R&D organizations along with programs intended to redesign and simplify our corporate structure globally. These programs are focused on aligning our resources with our strategic direction. We may not be able to realize the expected benefits and cost savings if we do not successfully consolidate or outsource our magnetic tape cartridge converting operations. If these factors limit our ability to restructure our operations successfully, or on a timely basis, our expectations of future results of operations, including certain cost savings expected to result from the restructuring may not be met. If such difficulties are encountered or such cost savings are not realized, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not successfully manage our multiple brands on a global basis, it could have a material impact on our financial results. One element of our Company’s profitable growth strategy is to acquire and successfully manage a balanced portfolio of strong commercial and consumer brands focused on data storage media and consumer electronic products. Our financial success is dependent on our ability to successfully manage the brands to maintain our strong recognition and presence in existing markets worldwide, grow brand recognition and presence in other areas of the world, grow our recognition and presence in areas of the world in which we do not currently operate and to grow our retail channel penetration. Our success is dependent on a number of factors including our ability to develop effective sales and marketing programs that enhance the strength of our brands and ability to increase retail channel penetration with leading-edge product innovation and increased product offerings. If one of our brands suffers a substantial impediment to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issue, our market share declines significantly or our sales and marketing programs are not effective, our results could be negatively impacted. We must make strategic decisions from time to time as to the products and technologies in which we invest and if we choose the wrong product or technology, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Our operating results are dependent upon our ability to successfully develop, manufacture, source and market innovative new products and services. New product and technology innovations may require a substantial investment before we can determine their commercial viability and a return on the investment may never be realized. Because of the rapid technology changes in our industry, we may not be able to compete if we cannot quickly develop, source and introduce differentiating and innovative products. We operate in a highly competitive environment against competitors who are both larger and smaller than us in terms of resources and market share. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and new product introductions. In these highly competitive and changing markets, our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to develop and introduce differentiated and innovative products and services cost-effectively and on a timely basis. The success of our offerings is dependent on several factors including our differentiation from competitive offerings, timing of new product introductions, effectiveness of marketing programs and maintaining low manufacturing, sourcing and supply chain costs. No assurance can be given with regard to our ability to anticipate and react to changes in market requirements, react to the actions of competitors or react to the pace and direction of technology changes. We may be dependent on third parties for new product introductions or technologies in order to introduce our own new products. We are dependent in some cases upon various third parties, such as certain drive manufacturers, for the introduction and acceptance of new products, the timing of which is out of our control. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will maintain existing or create new OEM relationships. There can be also no assurance that we will continue to have access to significant proprietary technologies through internal development and licensing arrangements with third parties, or that we will continue to have access to new competitive technologies that may be required to introduce new products. If we are not successful in maintaining and developing new relationships with OEMs or obtaining rights to use competitive technologies, we may become less competitive in certain markets. 12 Table of Contents Operating losses in tax jurisdictions with deferred tax assets could hinder our ability to continue to carry the deferred tax assets, which would result in a valuation allowance negatively impacting our consolidated results and net worth. In a tax jurisdiction with a net deferred tax asset, the considerations for determining whether the asset can continue to be carried on the financial statements, include, amongst others, whether there has been cumulative profit (defined as pre-tax income adjusted by permanent differences) over the preceding three year period. Our analysis of the need for a valuation allowance recognizes that while we have reported a consolidated cumulative loss over the three year period ended December 31, 2008, this loss includes certain goodwill impairments which can be excluded from the calculation of cumulative profit. Excluding these goodwill impairments, we have a consolidated cumulative profit over the most recent three year period in all tax jurisdictions where a net deferred tax asset is recorded. While we have a history of profits, our profitability has declined over the last three years and we recorded a loss in the current year in the United States where the majority of our deferred tax assets are recorded. Therefore achievement of profitability in the United States in 2009 will be a significant factor in determining our continuing ability to carry these deferred tax assets. Significant negative events could impact the ability to carry the deferred tax assets in future periods Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other assets could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth. Goodwill represents the difference between the purchase price of acquired companies and the related fair values of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not subject to amortization and is tested for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Impairment testing is performed for each of our reporting units. We compare the carrying value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, to the fair value of the unit. Carrying value is based on the assets and liabilities associated with the operations of that reporting unit, which often requires allocation of shared or corporate items among reporting units. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we revalue all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including goodwill, to determine if goodwill is impaired. If the fair value of goodwill is less than its carrying amount, impairment has occurred. Our estimates of fair value are determined based on a discounted cash flow model and then compared to the market capitalization of the Company. Growth rates for sales and profits are determined using inputs from our annual long-range planning process. We also make estimates of discount rates, perpetuity growth assumptions, market comparables and other factors. We evaluate assets on our balance sheet, including intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Our estimate of the fair value of the assets may be based on fair value appraisals or discounted cash flow models using various inputs. As of December 31, 2008, we had $357.0 million of definite-lived intangible assets subject to amortization and $23.5 million of goodwill. While we believe that the current carrying value of these assets is not impaired, materially different assumptions regarding future performance of our businesses could result in significant impairment losses. Our stock price may be subject to significant volatility due to our results or market trends. If revenue, earnings or cash flows in any quarter fail to meet the investment community’s expectations, there could be an immediate negative impact on our stock price. Our stock price may also be affected by broader market trends and world events unrelated to our performance. Our financial success depends upon our ability to manufacture, source and deliver products to our customers at acceptable quality, volume and cost levels. Our success depends on our ability to source, manufacture and deliver products to our customers at acceptable quality, volume and cost levels. The manufacture of our magnetic tape products involves complex and precise processes requiring production in highly controlled and clean environments. If we do not manage these processes effectively, changes could significantly hurt our ability to meet our customers’ product volume and quality needs at acceptable costs. Even within a clean room environment, minor equipment malfunctions in any one of the many manufacturing process steps could halt production and lead to additional costs. Further, existing manufacturing techniques may not achieve our volume and cost targets. In these cases, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop new manufacturing processes and techniques to achieve these targets. For sourced products, we must be able to obtain quality products at a price that will allow us to sell the products at an acceptable gross margin. To the extent we cannot control costs or price erosion is greater than expected, our financial results may be negatively impacted. 13 Table of Contents If we do not achieve the expected benefits from strategic relationships, our financial results may be negatively impacted. In 2003, we entered into a series of agreements with MBI that established MBI as a significant, non-exclusive source for our optical media products and created GDM as a joint venture sales and distribution company for optical media products. We hold a 51 percent interest in GDM and MBI holds a 49 percent interest. As the controlling shareholder of this subsidiary, we consolidate the results of GDM in our financial statements. We have also entered into other strategic relationships and distribution agreements over the past several years with IBM, HP, Sun StorageTek, Tandberg and others, where we are the exclusive distributor on a global or regional basis. If we do not perform at levels expected with these relationships, our volumes and growth prospects may not be realized which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant changes in discount rates, rates of return on pension assets, mortality tables and other factors could affect our future earnings, equity and pension funding requirements. Pension obligations and the related costs are determined using actual investment results as well as actuarial valuations that involve several assumptions. Our funding requirements are also based on these assumptions in addition to the performance of the assets in the plans. The most critical assumptions are the discount rate, the long-term expected return on assets and mortality. Other assumptions include salary increases and retirement age. Some of these assumptions, such as the discount rate, are largely outside of our control. Changes in these assumptions could affect our future earnings, equity and funding requirements. In 2008, the declines in the United States equity markets resulted in a significant decrease in our plan assets. We use a variety of raw materials, supplier-provided parts, components, sub-systems and third party contract manufacturing services in our businesses, and significant shortages, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products. Our reliance on suppliers, third party contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply, manufacturing or assembly or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations by suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or third party contract manufacturers, supplier capacity constraints, supplier and third party contract manufacturer production disruptions, price increases or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that our supply management and production practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. No assurances can be given that acceptable cost levels will continue in the future. In addition, some critical raw materials and key components have a limited number of suppliers. If we cannot obtain those raw materials or critical components from the suppliers, we will not be able to produce certain of our products. In the global consumer electronics market, flat panel displays are in high demand and if our vendors fail to supply us with products we may not meet the demands of our customers and revenue could decline. A material change in customer relationships or in customer demand for products could have a significant impact on our business. We are transforming the Company into a brand and product management organization and increasing our reliance on retail customers. Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully offer trade terms that are acceptable to our customers and are aligned with our pricing and profitability targets. Our business could suffer if we cannot reach agreements with key customers based on our trade terms and principles. In addition, our business would be negatively impacted if key customers were to significantly reduce the range or inventory level of our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights, including the Imation, TDK Life on Record, Memorex and XtremeMac brands, and to defend ourselves against intellectual property infringement claims of others, including the Philips patent cross-license claim. Claims may arise from time to time alleging that we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. If we are not successful in defending ourselves against those claims, we could incur substantial costs in implementing remediation actions, such as redesigning our products or processes, paying for license rights or paying to settle disputes. The related costs or the disruption to our operations could have a material adverse effect on us. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a description of our dispute with Philips and SanDisk. 14 Table of Contents In addition, we utilize valuable non-patented technical know-how and trade secrets in our product development and manufacturing operations. There can be no assurance that confidentiality agreements and other measures we utilize to protect such proprietary information will be effective, that these agreements will not be breached or that our competitors will not acquire the information as a result of or through independent development. We enforce our intellectual property rights against others who infringe those rights. If we are unable to attract and retain employees and key talent, we may incur a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. We operate in a highly competitive market for employees with specialized skill, experience and industry knowledge. No assurance can be given that we will be able to attract and retain employees and key talent. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 