Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this Form 10-K or our other SEC filings, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We must make strategic decisions from time to time as to the products and technologies in which we invest and if we choose the wrong product or technology, our financial results could be adversely impacted. On February 1, 2011, we announced our strategic direction as a technology company focused on growth opportunities in data storage, protection and connectivity. Growth opportunities will be achieved through corporate strategies, product strategies and investment strategies. These strategies require significant investment. If we are not successful in implementing these strategies or if we choose the wrong focus for our strategies, our financial results could be negatively impacted. The future revenue growth of our business depends in part on the development and performance of our new products. Historically, magnetic and optical products have provided the majority of our revenues. Demand for optical media products is decreasing due to a shift in demand to the use of other media for storing data. While demand for data capacity is expected to increase, removable magnetic media market size is expected to decrease in terms of revenue. We expect new product revenue growth to eventually offset the product revenue declines of our products in mature markets so that our total company revenue will grow. If we are not successful in growing new product revenues, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Our results of operations include our determinations of the amount of taxes owed in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate and are subject to changes in tax laws and regulations, and to inspection by various tax authorities. Changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance as well as inspections by tax authorities could materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities and our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to examinations by tax authorities in multiple jurisdictions. In addition to ongoing investigations, there could be additional investigations launched in the future by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions and existing investigations could be expanded. While we believe we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to address and reduce these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional issues will arise from time to time. Our results may be affected by the outcome of such proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. Because of the rapid technology changes in our industry, we may not be able to compete if we cannot quickly develop, source, introduce and deliver differentiating and innovative products. We operate in a highly competitive environment against competitors who are both larger and smaller than us in terms of resources and market share. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and new product introductions. In these highly competitive and changing markets, our success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to continue to develop and introduce differentiated and innovative products and services cost-effectively and on a timely basis. The success of our offerings is dependent on several factors including our differentiation from competitive offerings, timing of new product introductions, effectiveness of marketing programs and maintaining low manufacturing, sourcing and supply chain costs. No assurance can be given with regard to our ability to anticipate and react to changes in market requirements, actions of competitors or the pace and direction of technology changes. We may be dependent on third parties for new product introductions or technologies in order to introduce our own new products. We are dependent in some cases upon various third parties, such as certain drive manufacturers, for the introduction and acceptance of new products, the timing of which is out of our control. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will maintain existing relationships or forge new OEM relationships. There can also be no assurance that we will continue to have access to significant proprietary technologies through internal development and licensing arrangements with third parties, or that we will continue to have access to new competitive technologies that may be required to introduce new products. If we are not successful in maintaining and developing new relationships with OEMs or obtaining rights to use competitive technologies, we may become less competitive in certain markets. Negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in a decrease in our sales and revenue and an increase in our operating costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Negative or uncertain global economic conditions could cause many of our direct and indirect customers to delay or reduce their purchases of our products. Further, many of our customers in OEM, distribution and retail channels rely on credit financing in order to purchase our products. Additionally, some of our suppliers pay us quarterly or annual rebates based on the 9 Table of Contents amount of purchases we make from them. If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders in these channels may decrease, which could result in lower revenue. Likewise, our suppliers may face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses. These actions could result in reductions in our revenue, increased price competition and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’ accounts receivable, which would adversely affect our financial results. We extend credit and payment terms to most of our customers. In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our credit risk outside the U.S. by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances; however, as a result of the recent uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable. We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails and is unable to pay us. We may engage in business combinations that are dilutive to existing stockholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise harm our results of operations, and result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combinations, strategic partnerships, collaborations, capital investments and the purchase, licensing or sale of assets. Acquisitions made entirely or partially for cash would reduce our cash reserves. We use financial assumptions and forecasts to determine the negotiated price we are willing to pay for an acquisition. If those financial assumptions and/or forecasts are not accurate, the price we pay may be too high, resulting in an inefficient use of cash and future goodwill impairment. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that such products will be successful after the closing and will not cannibalize sales of our existing products, that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such company. Failed business combinations, or the efforts to create a business combination, can also result in litigation. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies. We may experience delays in the timing and successful integration of acquired technologies and product development, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also result in our entering into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation, subject us to an increased risk of intellectual property and other litigation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases, and we cannot assure that we will realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, amortization of identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we acquire a business while our market value remains lower than our book value, which was the case as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, accounting rules may require us to expense any goodwill associated with a new acquisition. Volatility of demand and seasonality may result in our inability to accurately forecast our product purchase requirements. Sales of some of our products are subject to seasonality. For example, sales have typically increased in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, sometimes followed by significant declines in the first quarter of the following fiscal year. This seasonality makes it more difficult for us to forecast our business, especially in the volatile current global economic environment and its corresponding change in consumer confidence, which may impact typical seasonal trends. If our forecasts are inaccurate, we may lose market share due to product shortages or procure excess inventory or inappropriately increase or decrease our operating expenses, any of which could harm our business, financial condition 10 Table of Contents and results of operations. This seasonality also may lead to the need for significant working capital investments in receivables and inventory and our need to build inventory levels in advance of our most active selling seasons. Our international operations subject us to economic risk as our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in political, economic and other conditions and foreign currency fluctuations. We conduct our business on a global basis, with 57 percent of our 2010 revenue derived from operations outside of the United States. Our international operations may be subject to various risks which are not present in domestic operations, including political and economic instability, terrorist activity, the possibility of expropriation, trade tariffs or embargoes, unfavorable tax laws, restrictions on royalties, dividend and currency remittances, changes in foreign laws and regulations, requirements for governmental approvals for new ventures and local participation in operations such as local equity ownership and workers’ councils. In addition, our business and financial results are affected by fluctuations in world financial markets. Changes in local and regional economic conditions, including fluctuations in exchange rates, may affect product demand in our non-U.S. operations and export markets. Foreign currency fluctuations can also affect reported profits of our non-U.S. operations where transactions are generally denominated in local currencies. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the prices we pay suppliers for materials used in our products. Our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates may give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of non-U.S. operating units are translated into U.S. dollars. Given that the majority of our revenues are non-U.S. based, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations. While these factors or the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Our financial success depends upon our ability to source and deliver products to our customers at acceptable quality, volume and cost levels. We source the manufacture of our products, including magnetic tape products. The manufacture of our magnetic tape products involves complex and precise processes requiring production in highly controlled and clean room environments. If we do not manage these processes effectively, we may significantly hurt our ability to meet our customers’ product volume and quality needs at acceptable costs. Further, existing manufacturing techniques may not achieve our volume and cost targets. In these cases, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop new manufacturing processes and techniques to achieve these targets. We must be able to obtain quality products at a price that will allow us to sell the products at an acceptable gross margin. To the extent we cannot control costs or price erosion is greater than expected, our financial results may be negatively impacted. Significant changes in discount rates, rates of return on pension assets, mortality tables and other factors could affect our future earnings, equity and pension funding requirements. Pension obligations and related costs are determined using actual investment results as well as actuarial valuations that involve several assumptions. Our funding requirements are based on these assumptions in addition to the performance of assets in the pension plans. The most critical assumptions are the discount rate, the long-term expected return on assets and mortality. Other assumptions include salary increases and retirement age. Some of these assumptions, such as the discount rate, are largely outside of our control. Changes in these assumptions could affect our future earnings, equity and funding requirements. We use a variety of raw materials, supplier-provided parts, components, sub-systems and third-party contract manufacturing services in our businesses and significant shortages, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products. Our reliance on suppliers, third-party contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply, manufacturing or assembly or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations by suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or third-party contract manufacturers, supplier capacity constraints, supplier and third-party contract manufacturer production disruptions, price increases or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that our supply management and production practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. No assurances can be given that acceptable cost levels will continue in the future. In addition, some critical raw materials and key components have a limited number of suppliers. If we cannot obtain those raw materials or critical components from the suppliers, we will not be able to produce certain products. 11 Table of Contents Sudden disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an impact on our operations. We generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air or ocean freight. The sudden unavailability or disruption of cargo operations or freight lanes, such as due to labor difficulties or disputes, severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political instability, terrorism or civil unrest, could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. A material change in customer relationships or in customer demand for products could have a significant impact on our business. Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully offer trade terms that are acceptable to our customers and that are aligned with our pricing and profitability targets. Our business could suffer if we cannot reach agreements with key customers based on our trade terms and principles. In addition, our business would be negatively impacted if key customers were to significantly reduce the range or inventory level of our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights, including the Imation, TDK Life on Record, Memorex and XtremeMac brands and to defend ourselves against intellectual property infringement claims of others. Claims may arise from time to time alleging that we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. If we are not successful in defending ourselves against those claims, we could incur substantial costs in implementing remediation actions, such as redesigning our products or processes, paying for license rights or paying to settle disputes. The related costs or the disruption to our operations could have a material adverse effect on our results. In addition, we utilize valuable non-patented technical know-how and trade secrets in our product development and manufacturing operations. There can be no assurance that confidentiality agreements and other measures we utilize to protect such proprietary information will be effective, that these agreements will not be breached or that our competitors will not acquire the information as a result of or through independent development. We enforce our intellectual property rights against others who infringe those rights. Additionally, our electronic products segment is subject to allegations of patent infringement by our competitors as well as by non-practicing entities (NPEs), sometimes referred to as “patent trolls,” who may seek monetary settlements from the U.S. consumer electronics industry. If our long-lived assets or any goodwill that we acquire become impaired, it may adversely affect our operating results. Negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows such that they are insufficient, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or any acquired goodwill may be impaired. If we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our Consolidated Financial Statements because an impairment of our long-lived assets or any acquired goodwill is determined, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Significant litigation matters could result in large costs. We are subject to various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business, especially regarding patents related to our consumer electronics products. We are generally indemnified by our suppliers; litigation, however, is always subject to many uncertainties and outcomes that are not predictable. We cannot ascertain the ultimate aggregate amount of any monetary liability or financial impact that may be incurred by us in litigation. We may be affected by legal, regulatory, or market responses to actual or perceived global climate change. Concern over climate change, including global warming, has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. For example, proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on GHG emissions continue to be considered by policy makers in the territories that we operate. Laws enacted that directly or indirectly affect our production, distribution, packaging, cost of raw materials, fuel, ingredients, and water could impact our business and financial results. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Factors such as the following may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; 12 Table of Contents • new products introduced by us or our competitors; • periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; • developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; • conditions and trends in the consumer electronics and data storage industries; • contraction in our operating results or growth rates; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the industries in which we participate in general; and • macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally. In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. If we are unable to attract and retain employees and key talent our business and financial results may be materially impacted. We operate in a highly competitive market for employees with specialized skill, experience and industry knowledge. We plan to add employees as part of our strategy to invest in technology, expand sales and marketing, improve decision making tools in IT and international expansion focused on China. No assurance can be given that we will be able to attract and retain employees and key talent. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 