RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Since we are dependent on the highly cyclical semiconductor industry and conditions in the markets for the end-use applications of our products, our revenues and net income may fluctuate significantly. Our semiconductor testing and packaging business is affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry. All of our customers operate in this industry, and variations in order levels from our customers and service fee rates may result in volatility in our revenues and net income. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant, and sometimes prolonged, downturns. As our business is, and will continue to be, dependent on the requirements of semiconductor companies for independent testing and packaging services, any future downturn in the semiconductor industry would reduce demand for our services. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2000, a worldwide downturn resulted in a significant deterioration in the average selling prices of, as well as demand for, our services in 2001 and significantly and adversely affected our operating results in 2001. Although the modest recovery in the semiconductor industry, evident in 2002 and 2003, strengthened in 2004 and 2005, we expect market conditions to continue to exert downward pressure on the average selling prices for our testing and packaging services. If we cannot reduce our costs to sufficiently offset any decline in average selling prices, our profitability will suffer and we may incur losses. Market conditions in the semiconductor industry depend to a large degree on conditions in the markets for the end-use applications of semiconductor products, such as communications, personal computer and consumer electronic products. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, the substantial majority of our sales was attributable to the testing and packaging of semiconductors used in communications, personal computer and consumer electronic products. These industries are subject to intense competition and significant shifts in demand which could put pricing pressure on our testing and packaging services and adversely affect our revenues and net income. A reversal or slowdown in the outsourcing trend for semiconductor testing and packaging services could adversely affect our growth prospects and profitability. In recent years, semiconductor manufacturers that have their own in-house testing and packaging capabilities, known as integrated device manufacturers, have increasingly outsourced stages of the semiconductor production process, including testing and packaging, to independent companies in order to reduce costs and shorten production cycles. In addition, the availability of advanced independent semiconductor manufacturing services has also enabled the growth of so-called “fabless” semiconductor companies that focus exclusively on design and marketing and outsource their manufacturing, testing and packaging requirements to independent companies. We cannot assure you that these integrated device manufacturers and fabless semiconductor companies will continue to outsource their testing and packaging requirements to third parties like us. A reversal of, or a slowdown in, this outsourcing trend could result in reduced demand for our services and adversely affect our growth prospects and profitability. If we are unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive semiconductor testing and packaging markets, our revenues and net income may decrease. The semiconductor testing and packaging markets are very competitive. We face competition from a number of sources, including other independent semiconductor testing and packaging companies, especially those that offer turnkey testing and packaging services. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the testing and packaging market are: the ability to provide total solutions to our customers; technological expertise; 5 the range of testing platforms and package types available; software conversion program capability; the ability to work closely with customers at the product development stage; responsiveness and flexibility; production cycle time; capacity; production yield; and price. We face increasing competition from other testing and packaging companies, as most of our customers obtain testing or packaging services from more than one source. In addition, some of our competitors may have access to more advanced technologies and greater financial and other resources than we do. Many of our competitors have shown a willingness to quickly and sharply reduce prices, as they did in 2001, in order to maintain capacity utilization in their facilities during periods of reduced demand. Although prices have stabilized, any renewed erosion in the prices for our testing and packaging services could cause our revenues and net income to decrease and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The complexity of the semiconductor testing and packaging process increases the costs and production risks of our business. Semiconductor testing and packaging involve significant technological and process expertise. In order to improve capacity utilization and efficiencies in our testing operations, we maintain advanced and expensive equipment and develop software conversion programs which enable us to test semiconductors utilizing different testing platforms. If we fail to successfully develop software conversion programs or if we are unable to effectively reduce the lead time necessary to interface our customers’ semiconductors with our testing equipment, our operational efficiency could suffer. In addition, our testing and packaging operations take place in clean rooms where air purity, temperature and humidity are controlled. If we are unable to effectively control our testing and packaging environment, some semiconductors could be damaged. Although we believe our operational efficiency has generally improved in recent years, we have from time to time experienced, and may in the future experience, production interruptions due to technical problems or operator errors in our testing and packaging processes. Any interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our profitability depends on our ability to respond to rapid technological changes in the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid increases in the diversity and complexity of semiconductors. As a result, we expect that we will need to constantly offer more sophisticated testing and packaging technologies and processes in order to respond to competitive industry conditions and customer requirements. If we fail to develop, or obtain access to, advances in testing or packaging technologies or processes, we may become less competitive and less profitable. In addition, advances in technology typically lead to declining average selling prices for semiconductors tested or packaged with older technologies or processes. As a result, if we cannot reduce the costs associated with our testing or packaging services, the profitability of a given service and our overall profitability may decrease over time. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market value of your investment. Our operating results have varied significantly from period to period and may continue to vary in the future. Downward fluctuations in our operating results may result in decreases in the market price of our shares. Among the more important factors affecting our quarterly and annual operating results are the following: 6 changes in general economic and business conditions, particularly given the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the markets served by our customers; our ability to quickly adjust to unanticipated declines or shortfalls in demand and market prices for our testing and packaging services, due to our high percentage of fixed costs; timing of capital expenditures in anticipation of future orders; changes in prices for our testing and packaging services; volume of orders relative to our testing and packaging capacity; our ability to obtain adequate testing and packaging equipment on a timely basis; changes in costs and availability of raw materials, equipment and labor; and earthquakes, drought, epidemics and other natural disasters, as well as industrial and other incidents such as fires and power outages. Due to the factors listed above, our future operating results or growth rates may be below the expectations of research analysts and investors. If so, the market price of our shares, and thus the market value of your investment, may fall. Due to our high percentage of fixed costs, we will be unable to maintain our gross margin at past levels if we are unable to achieve relatively high capacity utilization rates. Our operations, in particular our testing operations, are characterized by relatively high fixed costs. We expect to continue to incur substantial depreciation and other expenses in connection with previous acquisitions of testing and packaging equipment and facilities. Our profitability depends not only on pricing levels for our services, but also on utilization rates for our testing and packaging equipment, commonly referred to as “capacity utilization rates”. In particular, increases or decreases in our capacity utilization rates can significantly affect gross margins since the unit cost of testing and packaging services generally decreases as fixed costs are allocated over a larger number of units. In periods of low demand, we experience relatively low capacity utilization rates in our operations, which leads to reduced margins. During 2001, we experienced lower than anticipated utilization rates in our operations due to a significant decline in worldwide demand for our testing and packaging services, which resulted in reduced margins during that period. Although our capacity utilization rates have improved, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or surpass our past gross margin levels if we cannot consistently achieve or maintain relatively high capacity utilization rates. Because of the highly cyclical nature of our industry, our capital requirements are difficult to plan. If we cannot obtain additional capital when we need it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be adversely affected. Our capital requirements are difficult to plan in our highly cyclical and rapidly changing industry. We will need capital to fund the expansion of our facilities as well as fund our research and development activities in order to remain competitive. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, expected cash flow from operations and existing credit lines will be sufficient to meet our capital expenditures, working capital, cash obligations under our existing debt and lease arrangements, and other requirements at least through the end of 2006. However, future capacity expansions or market or other developments may cause us to require additional funds. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; general market conditions for financing activities by semiconductor companies; and economic, political and other conditions in Taiwan and elsewhere. 7 If we are unable to obtain funding in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, our growth prospects and future profitability may decline. Restrictive covenants and broad default provisions in our existing debt agreements may materially restrict our operations as well as adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We are a party to numerous loan and other agreements relating to the incurrence of debt, many of which include restrictive covenants and broad default provisions. In general, covenants in the agreements governing our existing debt, and debt we may incur in the future, may materially restrict our operations, including our ability to incur debt, pay dividends, make certain investments and payments and encumber or dispose of assets. In the event of a prolonged downturn in the demand for our services as a result of a downturn in the worldwide semiconductor industry or otherwise, we cannot assure you that we will be able to remain in compliance with our financial covenants which, as a result, may lead to a default. Furthermore, a default under one agreement may also trigger cross-defaults under our other agreements. In the event of default, we may not be able to cure the default or obtain a waiver on a timely basis. An event of default under any agreement governing our existing or future debt, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We and our subsidiaries have on occasion failed to comply with certain financial covenants in some of our loan agreements as a result of reduced levels of operating cash flow due primarily to a downturn in the worldwide semiconductor industry in the fourth quarter of 2000, although our cash flow has subsequently improved. Such noncompliance may also have, through broadly worded cross-default provisions, resulted in defaults under some of the agreements governing our other existing debt. We and our subsidiaries obtained waivers from the relevant lenders relating specifically to such noncompliance. Such noncompliance has not had any significant effect on our ability to repay or refinance amounts due in respect of our existing debt. For these and other reasons, including our financial condition and our relationship with our lenders, no lender has to date sought and we do not believe that any of our lenders would seek to declare a default or enforce remedies in respect of our existing debt, as a result of cross-default provisions or otherwise, although we cannot provide any assurance in this regard. We depend on select personnel and could be affected by the loss of their services. We depend on the continued service of our executive officers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of any of these personnel and cannot adequately replace them. Although some of these management personnel have entered into employment agreements with us, they may leave before the expiration of these agreements. We are not insured against the loss of any of our personnel. In addition, we may be required to increase substantially the number of these employees in connection with our expansion plans, and there is intense competition for their services in the semiconductor industry. We may not be able to either retain our present personnel or attract additional qualified personnel as and when needed. In addition, we may need to increase employee compensation levels in order to attract and retain our existing officers and employees and the additional personnel that we expect to require. Furthermore, a portion of the workforce at our facilities in Taiwan are foreign workers employed by us under work permits which are subject to government regulations on renewal and other terms. Consequently, our business could also suffer if the Taiwan regulations relating to the import of foreign workers were to become significantly more restrictive or if we are otherwise unable to attract or retain these workers at a reasonable cost. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to 8 our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Furthermore, during the course of the evaluation, documentation and attestation, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remedy in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls, on an ongoing basis, over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our shares. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to obtain additional testing and packaging equipment or facilities in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost, our competitiveness and future profitability may be adversely affected. The semiconductor testing and packaging businesses are capital-intensive and require significant investment in expensive equipment manufactured by a limited number of suppliers. The market for semiconductor testing and packaging equipment is characterized, from time to time, by intense demand, limited supply and long delivery cycles. Our operations and expansion plans depend on our ability to obtain a significant amount of such equipment from a limited number of suppliers, including, in the case of testers, Agilent Technologies, Inc., Teradyne, Inc., Credence Systems Corporation, LTX Corporation and, in the case of wire bonders, Kulicke & Soffa Industries Inc. In the case of handlers, we purchase equipment from Seiko Epson, and, in the case of probers, we purchase equipment from Tokyo Electron Limited. From time to time we have also leased certain equipment and have in the past two years increased the amount of equipment we lease. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results and Trend Information—Cost of Revenues”. We have no binding supply agreements with any of our suppliers and acquire our testing and packaging equipment on a purchase order basis, which exposes us to changing market conditions and other substantial risks. For example, shortages of capital equipment could result in an increase in the price of equipment and longer delivery times. Semiconductor testing and packaging also require us to operate sizeable facilities. If we are unable to obtain equipment or facilities in a timely manner, we may be unable to fulfill our customers’ orders, which could adversely affect our growth prospects as well as financial condition and results of operations. See “