Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Business Our LabChip products may not achieve widespread market acceptance, which could cause our revenue to grow slowly or decline and make it more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. The commercial success of our LabChip products depends upon market acceptance of the merits of our drug discovery and automated electrophoresis separations systems by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic research centers and other companies that rely upon laboratory experimentation. Although our microfluidic drug discovery and automated electrophoresis systems have been marketed and sold commercially for over five years, their accuracy, reliability, ease-of-use and commercial value have not yet gained widespread commercial acceptance. If these systems do not continue to gain further market acceptance, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline. In addition, our strategy for our microfluidic-based screening products, such as the LabChip 3000 and EZ Reader instruments, depends upon the early users of these systems buying additional units as they spread the adoption of this technology throughout their organizations worldwide. New customers for our drug discovery systems may wait for indications from these early users that our drug discovery systems work effectively and generate substantial benefits. If the early users of our LabChip 3000 and EZ Reader systems do not endorse the further adoption of these systems because they fail to generate the expected quantities and quality of data, are too difficult or costly to use, or are otherwise deficient in meeting the screening needs of these customers, further sales of these systems to these early users may be limited, and sales to new users will be more difficult. Because drug screening systems represent substantial capital expenditures, it is important that these systems be capable of performing a wide variety of different types of assays and experiments in order to justify the cost of the systems. We intend to continue to lower the cost of these systems and to develop new versions of our microfluidic-based products with enhanced features and/or lower costs that address existing and emerging customer needs, such as offering a broad range of standardized, easy-to-use assays. In this regard, we recently launched a new LabChip system based on our microfluidic LabChip technology, the EZ Reader instrument system, which is designed specifically to facilitate secondary kinase screening by providing a more highly automated system capable of utilizing our recently launched ProfilerPro reaction ready plates already loaded with required reagents. If the commercial adoption of our other existing LabChip products and the new EZ Reader system is slower than we presently expect, we may experience a decline in revenue or slow revenue growth and may not achieve or maintain profitability. 26 For all of the foregoing reasons, we cannot assure you that our efforts to increase the adoption of our LabChip-based drug screening and automated electrophoresis systems, by both existing and new users, will be expeditious or effective. In summary, market acceptance of our LabChip systems will depend on many factors, including: •our ability to demonstrate the advantages and potential economic value of our LabChip drug discovery systems over alternative, well-established technologies; •our ability to develop a broader range of standard assays and applications that enable customers and potential customers to perform many different types of experiments on a single LabChip instrument system; •our ability to penetrate the market for secondary kinase screening with our new EZ Reader systems and ProfilerPro reaction ready plates; and •our ability to market and sell our drug discovery systems and related consumable products through our marketing and sales organization without the involvement of our senior management. If our in vivo biophotonic imaging products and services do not become more widely used by pharmaceutical, biotechnology, biomedical and chemical researchers, our revenue will grow more slowly than expected or decline and make it more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. Pharmaceutical, biotechnology, biomedical and chemical researchers have historically conducted in vivo biological assessment using a variety of imaging technologies, including X-ray, MRI, ultrasound, PET and SPECT. Compared to these other technologies, our in vivo biophotonic imaging technology is relatively new, and the number of companies and institutions using our technology is relatively limited. We have expanded the fluorescence imaging capabilities of our imaging instruments with the IVIS Spectrum instrument, which we launched in late 2006. We believe the IVIS Spectrum instrument offers the most advanced bioluminescence and fluorescence pre-clinical in vivo imaging capability in the market today. The commercial success of these products will depend upon the continuing adoption of our technology as a preferred method to perform in vivo biophotonic biological assessment. In order to be successful, these products must meet the technical and cost requirements for in vivo biological assessment within the life sciences industry. Widespread market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: •the willingness and ability of researchers and prospective customers to adopt new technologies; •our ability to convince prospective strategic partners and customers that our technology is an attractive alternative to other methods of in vivo biological assessment; •our customers' perception that our products can help accelerate efforts and reduce costs in drug development; and •our ability to sell and service sufficient quantities of our products. We receive significant licensing revenue from commercial users of our patented in vivo biophotonic imaging methods, and our ability to continue to receive this licensing revenue in the future will depend upon our ability to convince commercial users of the value of our patented imaging methods and our ability to enforce and defend the validity of the patents covering our proprietary biophotonic imaging methods. We exclusively in-license from Stanford University a portfolio of patents covering a broad range of in vivo, non-invasive imaging of light generated from within mammals, which portfolio of patents includes, among other patents, US Patent No. 5,650,135 and the recently issued US Patent No. 7,255,851. The patents in this portfolio before the recent issuance of the '851 patent cover broad methods of in vivo imaging of genetically produced light generation. The recently issued '851 patent 27 expanded the scope of this patent portfolio to include in vivo, non-invasive imaging methods based on light sources that are conjugated (or combined) with a biocompatible entity and administered to the mammal to be imaged. We actively out-license these patents to entities performing pre-clinical drug discovery and development research, which licenses, in the case of commercial entities, require the payment of fees in order to perform the patented imaging methods. We believe that the expanded patent coverage afforded by the '851 patent should enable us to extend our existing licensing program to a larger group of companies and to increase the revenue we obtain from this licensing program. However, our ability to maintain and increase the revenue we obtain from our biophotonic imaging licensing program will depend upon our continuing ability to convince researchers of the value of these patented imaging methods, including the biophotonic imaging methods with conjugated probes covered by the new '851 patent, as well as our ability to successfully defend the validity of the patents in this portfolio. It is possible that entities will seek to invalidate one or more patents included in this portfolio, either through litigation or through a reexamination process with the USPTO. For example, in November 2007 VisEn Medical filed a request with the USPTO for an Inter Partes Reexamination of the '851 patent, and in January 2008 the USPTO granted VisEn's request for a reexamination of the '851 patent. Although we believe the '851 patent and all of the imaging method patents in this portfolio are valid, and intend to vigorously defend them, one or more of the patents included in this portfolio could be held to be invalid, or the scope of their claim coverage could be a narrowed, which may cause our revenue from out-licensing this portfolio to decline. Because we receive revenue principally from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and chemical companies and biomedical research institutions, the economic conditions and regulatory requirements faced by those companies and institutions and their capital spending policies may have a significant effect on the demand for our products. We market our products to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and chemical companies and biomedical research institutions, and the capital spending policies of these entities can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. These policies vary significantly between different customers and are based on a wide variety of factors, including the resources available for purchasing research equipment, the spending priorities among various types of research companies and the policies regarding capital expenditures. In particular, economic conditions and regulatory requirements faced by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have at certain times directly affected their capital spending budgets. In addition, continued consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry will likely delay and may potentially reduce capital spending by pharmaceutical companies involved in such consolidations. During the past several years, many of our customers and potential customers, particularly in the biopharmaceutical industry, have reduced their capital spending budgets because of these generally adverse prevailing economic conditions, consolidation in the industry and increased pressure on the profitability of such companies, due in part to competition from generic drugs. If our customers and potential customers do not increase their capital spending budgets, because of continuing adverse economic conditions or further consolidation in the industry, we could face weak demand for our products. Similarly, changes in availability of grant money may impact our sales to academic customers. Recent developments regarding safety issues for widely used drugs, including actual and/or threatened litigation, also may affect capital spending by pharmaceutical companies. Any decrease or delay in capital spending by life sciences or chemical companies or biomedical researchers could cause our revenue to decline and harm our profitability. In addition, consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry may not only affect demand for our products, but also existing business relationships. For example, if two or more of our present or future biophotonic imaging customers merge, we may not receive the same aggregate amount of fees under one license agreement with the combined entity that we received under separate license agreements with these customers prior to their merger. Moreover, if one of our biophotonic imaging customers merges with an entity that is not such a customer, the new combined entity may prematurely terminate 28 our license agreement. Any of these developments could cause our revenue to decline, or to grow more slowly than we anticipate. Our future revenue is unpredictable and could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Our operating results have been historically strongest in the fourth quarter due to customer budget cycles and are also influenced in the second and fourth quarters by grant funding cycles. The sale of many of our products typically involves a scientific evaluation and commitment of capital by customers. Accordingly, the initial sales cycles of many of our products are lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks that are beyond our control, including customers' budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews. As a result of this lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle, our operating results have historically fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter, and we expect this trend to continue. In addition, a large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed. Historically, customer buying patterns and our revenue growth have caused a substantial portion of our revenues to occur in the last month of the quarter. Delays in the receipt of orders, our recognition of product or service revenue or the manufacture of product near the end of the quarter could cause quarterly revenues to fall short of anticipated levels. Because our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels and a high percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, less than anticipated revenues for a quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Accordingly, if our revenue declines or does not increase as we anticipate, we might not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses in a timely enough manner to avoid incurring additional losses. Our failure to achieve our anticipated level of revenue could significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. The following are among additional factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period: •changes in the demand for, and pricing of, our products and services; •the length of our sales cycles and buying patterns of our customers, which may cause a decrease in our operating results for a quarterly period; •the nature, pricing and timing of other products and services provided by us or our competitors; •changes in our renewable contracts, including licenses; •our ability to secure new license agreements for our microfluidics intellectual property technology under our Caliper Driven licensing program, which license agreements generally include substantial upfront fees as well as future royalties based on sales of licensed products; •our ability to obtain key components for products and manufacture and install them on a timely basis to meet demand; •changes in the research and development budgets of our customers; •customer resistance to paying technology licensing fees in conjunction with future IVIS imaging system purchases; •acquisition, licensing and other costs related to the expansion of our operations; •expenses related to patent infringement litigation and defense of our patents; and •expenses related to, and the results of, patent filings and other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. 29 Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarter to quarter or annual comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products, which could enable third parties to use our technology, or very similar technology, and could reduce our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to limit the ability of others to compete with us using the same or similar technology in the U.S. and other countries. However, these laws afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights to the extent necessary to sustain any competitive advantage we may have. In addition, our current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the U.S. or foreign countries. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These problems can be caused by the absence of adequate rules and methods for defending and enforcing intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent positions of companies developing tools for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, biomedical and chemical industries, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, particularly as to questions concerning the enforceability of such patents against alleged infringement. The biotechnology patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may therefore diminish the value of our intellectual property. Moreover, our patents and patent applications may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. We also face the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. We own, or control through exclusive licenses, a variety of issued patents and pending patent applications. However, the patents on which we rely may be challenged and invalidated, and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. We have taken measures to protect our proprietary information, especially proprietary information that is not covered by patents or patent applications. These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our proprietary information, and we may not be able to protect our trade secrets in a meaningful way. If we lose employees, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees despite the existence of nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. 30 We have previously been involved in patent litigation and we are currently involved in a reexamination of one of our issued patents by the USPTO. We may need to initiate other lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other proprietary rights, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would reduce our ability to compete in the market and may cause our stock price to decline. The patents on which we rely may be challenged and invalidated, and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. For example, in our recently settled patent infringement litigation with AntiCancer, AntiCancer had alleged infringement of two patents and requested that the court declare invalid certain of our patents covering methods of in vivo biophotonic imaging. For a description of our recently settled litigation with AntiCancer, see the section titled "Legal Proceedings" elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As another example, in November 2007 VisEn Medical filed a request with the USPTO for an Inter Partes Reexamination of a newly issued patent in our imaging patent portfolio, and in January 2008 the USPTO granted VisEn's request for a reexamination of this patent. Although we believe the challenged patent is valid, and intend to vigorously defend it in the reexamination process, the claims of the challenged patent could be invalidated or substantially narrowed through the reexamination process. In addition, in order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that those third parties may have access to substantially greater financial resources than we have to conduct such litigation. These lawsuits could be expensive, take significant time and could divert management's attention from other business concerns. These lawsuits would put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may suffer reduced instrumentation sales and/or license revenue as a result of pending lawsuits or following final resolution of lawsuits. Further, these lawsuits may also provoke these third parties to assert claims against us. Attempts to enforce our patents may trigger third party claims that our patents are invalid. We may not prevail in any of these suits and any damage or other remedies awarded to us, if any, may not be commercially valuable. During the course of these suits, there may be public announcements of results of hearings, motions and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or others perceive any of these results to be negative, it could cause our stock price to decline. Acquisitions may have unexpected consequences or impose additional costs on us. Our business is highly competitive and our growth is dependent upon market growth and our ability to enhance our existing products, introduce new products on a timely basis and offer our customers products that provide a more complete solution. One of the ways we may address the need to develop new products is through acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies, such as our acquisition of Zymark in July 2003, our acquisition of NovaScreen in October 2005, and our acquisition of Xenogen in August 2006. From time to time, we consider and evaluate potential business combinations involving our acquisition of another company and transactions involving the sale of our company through, among other things, a possible merger or consolidation of our business into that of another entity. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: •difficulties in integration of the operations, technologies and products and services of the acquired companies; •the risk of diverting management's attention from normal daily operations of the business; •potential cost and disruptions caused by the integration of financial reporting systems and development of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; 31 •accounting consequences, including amortization of acquired intangible assets or other required purchase accounting adjustments, resulting in variability or reductions of our reported earnings; •potential difficulties in completing projects associated with purchased in-process research and development; •risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in these markets have stronger market positions; •the potential loss of our key employees or those of the acquired company due to the employment uncertainties inherent in the acquisition process; •the assumption of known and potentially unknown liabilities of the acquired company; •the risk that we may find that the acquired company or business does not further our business strategy or that we paid more than what the company or business was worth; •our relationship with current and new employees and customers could be impaired; •the acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties who believe a claim against us would be valuable to pursue; •our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with product quality, product architecture and legal contingencies, among other matters; and •there may be insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions. Acquisitions may also cause us to issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership; record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; or incur other large and immediate write-offs. We cannot assure you that future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business. We must also maintain our ability to manage growth effectively. Failure to manage growth effectively and successfully integrate acquisitions that we make could harm our business. We expect to incur future operating losses and may not achieve profitability. We have experienced significant operating losses each year since our inception and we expect to incur an operating loss in 2008. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $234.1 million. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development and product marketing and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. These costs have exceeded our cumulative cash proceeds which, to date, have been generated principally from product sales, collaborative research and development agreements, technology access fees, license fees, litigation settlement proceeds and interest income on cash and investment balances. To achieve profitability, we will need to generate and sustain higher revenue than we have to date, while achieving reasonable costs and expense levels. We may not be able to generate enough revenue to achieve profitability. We may not achieve or maintain reasonable costs and expense levels. Even if we become profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we fail to achieve profitability within the timeframe expected by securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to expand our operations and invest in new products could reduce our ability to compete and result in lower revenue. We anticipate that our existing capital resources, together with the revenue to be derived from our commercial partners and from commercial sales of our products and services, will enable us to maintain currently planned operations beyond 2008. However, this expectation is based on our current operating 32 plan, and our ability to remain in compliance with various covenants of our bank credit facility, which may change as a result of many factors, including conditions in the market for our products and services as well as the prospect of future acquisitions or other investing activities that could require substantial additional financing. Consequently, we may need additional funding sooner than anticipated. Our inability to raise needed capital would seriously harm our business and product development efforts. In addition, we may choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe that we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, to the extent that operating and capital resources are insufficient to meet future requirements, we will have to raise additional funds to continue the development and commercialization of our technologies. These funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on attractive terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or to obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms. Failure to remain in compliance with the covenants included in our revolving credit facility could interfere with or prevent our ability to obtain additional advances under this credit facility. On February 15, 2008, we entered into an amended credit facility with a bank, which permits us to borrow up to $25 million in the form of revolving loan advances, including up to $5 million in the form of letters of credit. Principal borrowings under the credit facility accrue interest at a floating per annum rate equal to the prime rate if our unrestricted cash held at the bank exceeds or is equal to $25 million, or prime plus one-half of one percentage point if our unrestricted cash held at the bank is below $25 million. Under the credit facility, we are permitted to borrow up to $25 million, provided we maintain unrestricted cash of at least $25 million with the bank, or are otherwise subject to a borrowing base limit consisting of up to (a) 80% of eligible accounts receivable, as defined in the credit facility, plus (b) the lesser of 90% of our unrestricted cash maintained at the bank or $10 million. The credit facility matures on June 30, 2009. As of December 31, 2007, $12.9 million was outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility serves as a source of capital for ongoing operations and working capital needs. The credit facility includes traditional lending and reporting covenants including that certain financial covenants applicable to liquidity and earnings are to be maintained by us and tested as of the last day of each quarter. As of December 31, 2007, we did not comply with one of two liquidity covenants under the credit facility and we experienced a similar covenant violation in 2006. Subsequent to year end, the bank waived the covenant violations as of December 31, 2007. The credit facility also includes several potential events of default that could cause interest to be charged at prime plus two percentage points, or, in the event of any uncured events of default, could result in the bank's right to declare all outstanding obligations immediately due and payable. Our ability to remain in compliance with applicable loan covenants through the credit facility's maturity in 2009 depends upon our ability to achieve results that are materially consistent with our internal operating plans. If a material adverse change occurs within our business, or we fail to achieve our anticipated operating results, we may become in default of one or more covenants under the credit facility, which would require the bank to waive the covenants and these waivers may or may not be granted. If such events were to occur, we currently have no alternative committed sources of capital. The termination or non-renewal of a large multi-year contract or the loss of, or a significant reduction in, sales to any of our significant customers could harm our operating results. We currently derive, and we expect to continue to derive, a significant percentage of our total revenue from a relatively small number of customers. If any one of these customers terminates or 33 substantially diminishes its relationship with us, our revenue could decline significantly. We have contractual arrangements with certain customers that encompass the sale of products, licensing of imaging intellectual property and provision of in vivo services pursuant to agreements that are renewable on an annual or multi-year basis. Failure to renew or the cancellation of these agreements by any one of our larger customers could result in a significant loss of revenue. In addition, we recently entered into a multi-year contract with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to perform in vitro compound toxicity screening. If the EPA experiences a reduction in its federal funding allocation, elects not to proceed with the program or elects to reduce the number of compounds to be screened by us pursuant to this contract, our revenue may decline or grow more slowly than we currently expect. The temporary or permanent closure of a leased facility could harm our operating results. We currently manufacture our products in various leased facilities. We rely on a single manufacturing location to produce our microfluidic chips in Mountain View, California, and a single manufacturing location in Hopkinton, Massachusetts to produce laboratory automation, microfluidic instrument, imaging and robotics systems, with no alternative facilities. We rely principally on our facility in Cranbury, New Jersey, to produce LPTA models and our facility in Alameda, California to produce bioware cells and microorganisms. Our Alameda, California facility is also able to serve as a back-up facility for producing our LPTA models. Our in vitro screening services are performed at a single facility located in Hanover, Maryland. These facilities and some pieces of manufacturing equipment are difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. If any of our facilities are closed on a temporary or permanent basis, our revenue could decline significantly. Our present lease for our existing Mountain View, California facility expires near the end of 2008, and we are in the process of negotiating an extension of this lease. If we do not enter into a new lease with the landlord for this facility, we will have to relocate our manufacturing operations for microfluidic chips to a new facility. Unexpected difficulties in validating a new facility for producing our microfluidic chips could harm our operating results and adversely impact our revenue. Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. This risk is exacerbated because there are numerous issued and pending patents in the life sciences industry and, as described above, the validity and breadth of life sciences patents involve complex legal and factual questions. Our competitors may assert that their U.S. or foreign patents may cover our products and the methods we employ. For example, until recently we were involved in patent litigation with AntiCancer in which AntiCancer had alleged that we have infringed two of its patents. Although this litigation was resolved through a settlement and cross-license agreement between the parties, there can be no assurance that we will be able to settle other infringement claims on a favorable basis in the future. For a description of our recently settled litigation with AntiCancer, see the section titled "Legal Proceedings" elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that one or more of our products may inadvertently infringe. From time to time, we have received, and may receive in the future, letters from third parties asking us to license certain technologies that the third party believes we may be using or would like us to use. If we do not accept a license, we may be subject to claims of infringement, or may receive letters alleging infringement. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management's attention from our core business. 34 If we lose a patent infringement lawsuit, we could be prevented from selling our products unless we can obtain a license to use technology or ideas covered by such patent or are able to redesign the products to avoid infringement. A license may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us, or we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid any infringement. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our products, we may be unable to sell our products and our business could suffer. Our rights to the use of technologies licensed to us by third parties are not within our control, and without these technologies, our products and programs may not be successful and our business prospects could be harmed. We rely on licenses to use various technologies that are material to our business, including licenses, with sublicense rights, to certain microfluidic technologies and in vivo imaging methods, licenses to the use of certain biological materials, and licenses to engineer and commercialize transgenic animals. We do not own the patents that underlie these licenses. Our rights to use these technologies and employ the inventions claimed in the licensed patents are subject to the continuation of compliance with the terms of those licenses. In some cases, we do not control the prosecution or filing of the patents to which we hold licenses, or the enforcement of these patents against third parties. For example, under the Promega Corporation and The Regents of the University of California licenses for a patented form of firefly luciferase used in our LPTA models and certain of our bioware, we do not have the right to enforce the patent, and neither licensor is obligated to do so on our behalf. Certain of our licenses contain diligence obligations, as well as provisions that allow the licensor to terminate the license upon specific conditions. Some of the licenses under which we have rights, such as our licenses from the University of Pennsylvania and from UT Battele for certain microfluidic technologies and from Stanford University for certain biophotonic imaging methods, provide us with exclusive rights in specified fields, including the right to enforce the licensed patents, but the scope of our rights and obligations under these and other licenses may become subject to dispute by our licensors or third parties. For example, in 2006 Stanford raised an issue regarding the scope of products that we sell which are subject to the royalty provisions of our Stanford license agreement. Although we believe Stanford's interpretation of the license agreement is not correct, as a result of Stanford's view of the license agreement we may amend the license agreement to change the royalties we pay to Stanford for future sales. The amendment may also include the payment of back royalties to Stanford for products we have already sold. We have not discussed with Stanford the specific terms and conditions of an amendment or the amount of any back royalty payments. Any increase in the royalties we pay to Stanford would negatively impact our gross margins. Our tax net operating losses and credit carryforwards may expire if we do not achieve or maintain profitability. As of December 31, 2007, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $295.6 million and $97.2 million, respectively. We also had federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $11.0 million and $3.6 million, respectively. The federal net operating loss and credit carryforwards will expire at various dates through 2027 beginning in the year 2008 if not utilized. The current remaining state net operating losses have varying expiration dates through 2017. Utilization of the federal and state net operating losses and credits may be subject to a substantial limitation due to the change in ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and similar state provisions. The annual limitation may result in the expiration of net operating losses and credits before utilization. Because of our lack of earnings history and the uncertainty of realizing these net operating losses, the deferred tax assets have been substantially offset by a valuation allowance. 35 If we are unable to meet customer demand, it would adversely impact our financial results and restrict our sales growth. We may not be able to meet the expectations of our customers for a number of reasons. For example, our lab automation, microfluidic, and IVIS imaging instruments are all relatively complex systems, and certain components of these systems are specially manufactured by our limited and/or single-source suppliers. Supply of these parts to us requires adequate lead-time that can result in production delays. If we experience unexpected shifts in customer demand that require alterations to planned manufacturing, we may experience production delays that could restrict our sales growth. Also, if we do not consistently manufacture these systems at a sufficiently high level of quality, we could lose customers and fail to acquire new customers if they choose a competitor's product because our systems do not perform in accordance with our customers' expectations. If we are unable to meet customer expectations for any of our instrument systems, it would adversely affect our financial results and restrict our sales growth. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components of IVIS imaging systems, and we will be unable to manufacture or deliver our products if shipments from these suppliers are interrupted or are not supplied on a timely basis. We use original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, for various parts of our IVIS imaging systems, including the cameras, boxes, certain subassemblies, filters and lenses. We obtain these key components from a small number of sources. For example, the lens for our IVIS 200 system is obtained from a single source on a purchase order basis from Coastal Optical Systems Inc., and the CCD cameras for all of our IVIS imaging systems are obtained from two sources, Spectral Instruments, Inc. and Andor Technology Limited. We have binding supply agreements with Spectral and Andor. From time to time, we may experience delays in obtaining components from certain of our suppliers, which may have an impact on our ability to produce imaging systems. We believe that alternative sources for certain of these components in the event of a disruption or discontinuation in supply would not be available on a timely basis, which would disrupt our operations and impair our ability to manufacture and sell our IVIS imaging systems. Our dependence upon outside suppliers and OEMs exposes us to risks, including: •the possibility that one or more of our suppliers could terminate their services at any time; •the potential inability of our suppliers to obtain required components or products; •reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery due to the difficulties in switching to alternative suppliers; •the potential delays and expense of seeking alternative suppliers; and •increases in prices of raw materials, products and key components. We face competition from companies with established technologies for in vivo biological assessment, which may prevent us from achieving significant market share for our products. We compete with a variety of established and accepted technologies for in vivo biological assessment that several competitors and customers may be using to analyze animal models. The most basic of these technologies have remained relatively unchanged for the past 40 years, are well established and are routinely used by researchers. We believe it may take several years for all researchers to become fully educated about our in vivo biophotonic imaging technology. 36 We believe that in the near term, the market for in vivo biological assessment will be subject to rapid change and will be significantly affected by new technology introductions and other market activities of industry participants. As other companies develop new technologies and products to conduct in vivo biological assessment, we may be required to compete with many larger companies that enjoy several competitive advantages, including: •established distribution networks; •established relationships with life science, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and chemical companies as well as with biomedical researchers; •additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; and •greater resources for technology and product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation. Our principal competitors that use established technologies for in vivo biological assessment include Gene Logic, Inc., Exelixis, Inc. and Lexicon Genetics Incorporated. Each of these companies uses animal models in the area of target validation in drug discovery and utilizes methods of assessment based upon knockout mice as well as other organisms such as fruit flies, worms and yeast. We also face competition from several companies including Carestream Health, Inc., Berthold Detection Systems GmbH, Hamamatsu Photonics, Olympus Corporation, and Roper Scientific, Inc., which market systems which may be used to perform biophotonic imaging when accompanied by the appropriate intellectual licenses. These companies are larger and have greater resources than we do. There are also several privately-held companies that have recently begun to market systems that may be used to perform biophotonic imaging with the appropriate licenses. At any time, other companies may develop additional directly competitive products that could achieve greater market acceptance or render our products obsolete. Contamination in our animal populations could damage our inventory, harm our reputation and result in decreased sales. We offer a portfolio of transgenic animals and LPTA models for use by researchers in a wide range of research and drug discovery programs and also perform breeding and model validation. We maintain animal facilities in Alameda, California and Cranbury, New Jersey. These animals and facilities must be free of contaminants, viruses or bacteria, or pathogens that would compromise the quality of research results. Contamination of our isolated breeding rooms could disrupt our models, delay delivery to customers of data generated from phenotyping and result in decreased sales. Contamination would result in inventory loss, clean-up and start-up costs and reduced sales as a result of lost customer orders. In 2003, one of Xenogen's animal facilities in Alameda was contaminated by a mouse virus introduced through one of our animal vendors. That facility was closed for decontamination, and the most valuable strains were transferred to third party breeders for rederivation so that Xenogen could continue to provide animals to its customers. The decontamination process took approximately three months. A similar contamination occurred again in 2005. Accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets may have a material adverse effect on us. In accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, we assess the recoverability of identifiable intangibles with finite lives and other long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, 37 goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives from acquisitions are evaluated annually, or more frequently, if events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment, to determine whether any portion of the remaining balance of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles may not be recoverable. If it is determined in the future that a portion of our goodwill and other intangible assets is impaired, we will be required to write off that portion of the asset according to the methods defined by SFAS No. 144 and SFAS No. 142, which could have an adverse effect on net income for the period in which the write-off occurs. At December 31, 2007, we had goodwill and intangible assets of $123.7 million, or 59% of our total assets. If our accounting estimates are incorrect, our financial results could be adversely affected. Management judgment and estimates are necessarily required in the application of our critical accounting policies. We discuss these estimates in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in the subsection entitled "Critical Accounting Estimates." If our estimates are incorrect, our future financial operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters may seriously harm our business and revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition. We rely on a single manufacturing location to produce our microfluidic chips and drug discovery systems, and a single location to produce laboratory automation, imaging and robotics systems, with no alternative facilities. We rely principally on our facility in Cranbury, New Jersey, to produce LPTA models and our facility in Alameda, California to produce bioware cells and microorganisms. Alameda, California is also able to serve as a back-up facility for producing our LPTA models. These facilities and some pieces of manufacturing equipment are difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Our manufacturing facilities may be affected by natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods. Earthquakes are of particular significance because our LabChip product manufacturing facility is located in Mountain View, California, an earthquake-prone area. In the event that our existing manufacturing facilities or equipment are affected by man-made or natural disasters, we would be unable to manufacture products for sale, meet customer demands or meet sales projections. If our manufacturing operations were curtailed or ceased, it would harm our business. Terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors and customers, any and all of which could significantly impact our revenues, expenses and financial condition. The terrorist attacks that took place in the United States on September 11, 2001 were unprecedented events that have created many economic and political uncertainties. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations that cannot presently be predicted. We are largely uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters. We use hazardous materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes, our anesthesia systems used with our optical imaging systems to anesthetize the animals being imaged and our general biology operations involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials including, but not limited to, biological hazardous materials and radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by law and regulation, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could 38 be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. We currently maintain a limited pollution cleanup insurance policy in the amount of $1.0 million. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. We could be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with governmental regulations could increase our operating costs, which would adversely affect the commercialization of our technology. The Animal Welfare Act, or AWA, is the federal law that covers the treatment of certain animals used in research. The AWA currently does not cover rats of the genus Rattus or mice of the genus Mus bred for use in research, and consequently, we are not currently required to be in compliance with this law. Currently, the AWA imposes a wide variety of specific regulations that govern the humane handling, care, treatment and transportation of certain animals by producers and users of research animals, most notably personnel, facilities, sanitation, cage size, feeding, watering and shipping conditions. If in the future the AWA is amended to include mice or rats bred for use in research in the scope of regulated animals, we will become subject to registration, inspections and reporting requirements. We believe compliance with such regulations would require us to modify our current practices and procedures, which could require significant financial and management resources. Furthermore, some states have their own regulations, including general anti-cruelty legislation, which establish certain standards in handling animals. To the extent that we provide products and services overseas, we also have to comply with foreign laws, such as the European Convention for the Protection of Animals During International Transport and other anti-cruelty laws. In addition, customers of our mice in certain countries may need to comply with requirements of the European Convention for the Protection of Vertebrate Animals Used for Experimental and Other Scientific Purposes. Additional or more stringent regulations in this area could impact our sales of laboratory animals into signatory countries. Since we develop animals containing changes in their genetic make-up, we may become subject to a variety of laws, guidelines, regulations and treaties specifically directed at genetically modified organisms. The area of environmental releases of genetically modified organisms is rapidly evolving and is currently subject to intense regulatory scrutiny, particularly overseas. If we become subject to these laws, we could incur substantial compliance costs. For example, the Biosafety Protocol, an international treaty adopted in 2000 to which the U.S. is not a party, regulates the transit of living modified organisms, a category that includes our transgenic mice, into countries party to the treaty. As our mice are not intended for release into the environment or for use for food, feed or processing, the treaty imposes only identification, handling, packaging and transport requirements for shipments into signatory countries. However, additional requirements may be imposed on such shipments in the future. Additionally, exports of our optical imaging systems and biological reagents to foreign customers and distributors are governed by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations, Patriot Act and Bioterrorism Safety Act. Although these laws and regulations do not restrict our present foreign sales programs, any future changes to these regulatory regimes may negatively affect or limit our foreign sales. Public perception of ethical and social issues may limit or discourage the use of mice for scientific experimentation, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. Governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, limit the use of genetic modifications or prohibit the practice of our technology. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that genetically engineered products are unsafe for use in research or pose a danger to the environment. The subject of 39 genetically modified organisms, like genetically altered mice and rats, has received negative publicity and aroused significant public debate. In addition, animal rights activists could protest or make threats against our facilities, which may result in property damage. Ethical and other concerns about our methods, particularly our use of genetically altered mice and rats, could adversely affect our market acceptance. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Our stock price is extremely volatile, and you could lose a substantial portion of your investment. Our stock has been trading on the Nasdaq Global Market only since mid-December 1999. We initially offered our common stock to the public at $16.00 per share. Since then our stock price has been extremely volatile and has ranged, through March 7, 2008 from a high of approximately $202.00 per share on March 2, 2000 to a low of $2.71 per share both on January 28, 2003 and February 6, 2003. Our stock price may drop substantially following an investment in our common stock. We expect that our stock price will remain volatile as a result of a number of factors, including: •announcements by analysts regarding their assessment of us and our prospects; •announcements by our competitors of complementary or competing products and technologies; •announcements of our financial results, particularly if they differ from investors' expectations; and •general market volatility for technology stocks. These factors and fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have been sued, and are at risk of future securities class action litigation. In the spring and summer of 2001, class action lawsuits were filed against certain leading investment banks and over 300 companies that did public offerings during the prior several years, including lawsuits against Caliper and certain of its officers and directors as described under Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." This and other securities litigation could result in potential liability, cause us to incur litigation costs and divert management's attention and resources, any of which could harm our business. In addition, announcements of future lawsuits of this or some other nature, and announcements of events occurring during the course of the current and any future lawsuits, could cause our stock price to drop. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition in which we are not the surviving company or which results in changes in our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit stockholders owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock, from consummating a merger or combination which includes us. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 40 