Risk Factors The continuing pressure on the global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The ongoing global financial crisis continues to result in severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, volatility in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates and an on-going uncertainty about market stability. The effect of these actions could reduce enrollment in governmental programs or benefits available to be enrolled. Limited or expensive access to credit could also reduce the ability of the patients we serve to pay deductibles and co-insurance. Higher unemployment rates and significant employment layoffs and downsizings may lead to lower numbers of patients enrolled in employer-provided plans. The adverse economic conditions could also cause employers to stop offering, or limit, certain health care coverage, or the program designs associated with the coverage, 15 Table of Contents as an employee benefit or cause them to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs, leaving the patient’s ability to pay in question and increasing the likelihood that compliance to drug therapies will be interrupted. During an economic downturn, Federal and state budgets could be adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments by our Federal and state government health care coverage programs in which we participate, including Medicare, Medicaid and other Federal or state assistance plans. Also, a reduction in state Medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented to agreements already negotiated with the government and could adversely affect our revenues and financial results. Government programs could also slow or temporarily suspend payments on Medicaid obligations, negatively impacting our cash flow and increase our working capital needs and interest payments. Availability of financing sources may be restricted in the future. The economic crisis caused contraction in the credit markets and the availability of credit continues to remain restricted. While we believe our existing financing relationship is good and our credit facility is adequate to cover our needs, this agreement has historically been our largest source of funding and expires in the fourth quarter of 2010. There can be no assurances that this agreement will continue beyond its current maturity. In addition, if extreme market conditions continue or if our primary financing source were to fail, we can provide no assurance that any financing sources would be available or favorably priced. Also, future growth may be limited by our ability to gain access to additional capital. Existing and new government legislative and regulatory action could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our Specialty Pharmacy Services and Traditional Pharmacy Services segments are subject to numerous Federal, state and local laws and regulations. See “Business – Government Regulation.” Changes in these regulations may require extensive changes to our systems and operations that may be difficult to implement. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect the continued operation of our business, including, but not limited to: imposition of civil or criminal penalties; suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications or approvals; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; or loss of licensure. The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, Anti-Kickback laws; Federal and state self-referral laws; HIPAA; regulations of the FDA, U.S. Federal Trade Commission, and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, and regulations of various state regulatory authorities. In that regard, our business, financial position and results of operations could be affected by one or more of the following: · Federal and state laws and regulations governing the purchase, distribution, management, dispensing and reimbursement of prescription drugs and related services, whether at retail or mail, and applicable licensing requirements; · impact of limited distribution drugs; · the frequency and rate of approvals by the FDA of new brand named and generic drugs, or of over-the-counter status for brand name drugs; · FDA regulation affecting the retail or PBM industry; · rules and regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA and HITECH; and other federal and state laws affecting the use, disclosure and transmission of health information, such as state security breach laws and state laws limiting the use and disclosure of prescriber information; · administration of the Medicare Drug Benefit, including legislative changes and/or CMS rulemaking and interpretation; · government regulation of the development, administration, review and updating of formularies and drug lists; · state laws and regulations establishing or changing prompt payment requirements for payments to retail pharmacies; · managed care reform and plan design legislation; and · direct regulation of pharmacies or PBMs by regulatory and quasi-regulatory bodies. 16 Table of Contents Competition in the pharmaceutical healthcare services industry could reduce profit margins. The pharmaceutical healthcare services industry is very competitive. Our competitors include large and well-established companies that may have greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do. The specialty pharmacy industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are under common control with, or ownership by, pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit managers or retail pharmacy chains and may be better positioned with respect to the cost-effective distribution of pharmaceuticals. In addition, some of our competitors may have secured long-term supply or distribution arrangements for prescription pharmaceuticals necessary to treat certain chronic disease states on price terms substantially more favorable than the terms currently available to us. As a result of such advantageous pricing, we may be less price competitive than some of these competitors with respect to certain pharmaceutical products. Our competitive position could also be adversely affected by any inability to obtain access to new biotech pharmaceutical products. Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance. Contracts with our Traditional Pharmacy Services and Specialty Pharmacy Services clients generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for the reimbursement of prescription medications dispensed by us. These benchmarks include AWP, WAC and average manufacturer price. Most of our contracts utilize the AWP benchmark. As a result of the settlement of class-action lawsuits brought against First DataBank and Medi-Span, effective September 26, 2009, First DataBank and Medi-Span agreed to reduce the mark-up factor applied to WAC, on which AWP is based, from 1.25 to 1.20 for the approximately 1,400 drug codes that were the subject of the lawsuits. These AWP publishers also similarly reduced the mark-up factor on all other national drug codes on which they had marked up AWP. This voluntary reduction affected approximately 18,000 national drug codes. First DataBank and Medi-Span also have indicated that, within the next two years, they will discontinue publication of AWP information. In response to this change, a number of pharmacy benefit managers and third-party payors made adjustments to existing contracts with network pharmacy providers in order to preserve the economic structure of those agreements. The majority of the state Medicaid agencies did not make any such adjustments, the consequence of which is lowered reimbursement levels. The impact of the AWP settlement was to reduce our gross margins beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009. Based on revenue from all sources on a year-to-date basis, we estimated the impact of this change to be approximately $5.0 million on an annual basis. In 2010, we expect this margin impact will be offset by overall organic growth as well as an emphasis on higher margin business mix. Client demands for enhanced service levels or possible loss or unfavorable modification of contracts with clients or providers could pressure margins. As our clients face the continued rapid growth in prescription drug costs, they may demand additional services and enhanced service levels to help mitigate the increase in spending. We operate in a very competitive environment, and we may not be able to increase our fees to compensate for these increased services, which could put pressure on our margins. Our contracts with clients generally do not have terms longer than three years and, in some cases, may be terminated by the client on relatively short notice. Our clients generally seek bids from other PBM or specialty providers in advance of the expiration of their contracts. If several of these clients elect not to extend their relationship with us, and we are not successful in generating sales to replace the lost business, our future business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we believe the managed care industry is undergoing substantial consolidation, and another party that is not our client could acquire some of our managed care clients. In such case, the likelihood such client would renew its contract with us could be reduced. There are approximately 56,000 retail pharmacies in the United States. All major retail chain pharmacies and a vast majority of independent pharmacies participate in our pharmacy network. The top ten retail pharmacy chains represent approximately 65% of the total number of stores and over 80% of prescriptions filled in our network. Our contracts with retail pharmacies, which are non-exclusive, are generally terminable on relatively short notice. If one or more of the top pharmacy chains elects to terminate its relationship with us, our members’ access to retail pharmacies and our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, many large pharmacy chains either own PBMs today, or could attempt to acquire a PBM in the future. Ownership of PBMs by retail pharmacy chains could have material adverse effects on our relationships with such pharmacy chains and on our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations. Pending and future litigation could subject us to significant monetary damages and/or require us to change our business practices. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to risks relating to litigation and other proceedings in connection with our operations, including the dispensing of pharmaceutical products by our mail service, infusion services and community pharmacies. See Item 3 – Legal Proceedings for a list of material proceedings pending against us. While we believe that these suits are without merit and intend to contest them vigorously, we can give no assurance that an adverse outcome in one or more of these suits would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations, or would not require us to make material changes to our business practices. We are presently responding to several subpoenas and requests for information from governmental agencies. We confirmed that we are not a target or a potential subject of those investigations and requests. We cannot predict with certainty what the outcome of any of the foregoing might be. In addition to potential monetary liability arising from these suits and proceedings, we are incurring costs in the defense of the suits and in providing documents to government agencies. Many of the current pending claims and associated costs are covered by our insurance, but certain other costs are not insured, such as deductibles on each claim. While these costs are not currently material to our financial performances and there can be no assurance that such costs will not increase and/or become in the future. We may be subject to liability claims for damages and other expenses that are not covered by insurance. A successful product or professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Various aspects of our business may subject us to litigation and liability for damages, including the provision of PBM services and the operation of our pharmacies. For example, a prescription drug dispensing error could result in a patient receiving the wrong or incorrect amount of medication, leading to personal injury or death. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer if we pay damages or defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of any applicable contractual indemnity or insurance coverage. Loss of relationships with one or more pharmaceutical manufacturers and changes in payments made by pharmaceutical manufacturers could adversely affect our business and financial results. We have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers that provide discounts on drugs dispensed from our mail service and community pharmacies, and pay service fees for other programs and services that we provide. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected if: (i) we were to lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers; (ii) discounts decline due to changes in utilization of specified pharmaceutical products by health Plan Sponsors and other clients; (iii) legal restrictions are imposed on the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers to offer rebates, administrative fees or other discounts or to purchase our programs or services; or (iv) pharmaceutical manufacturers choose not to offer rebates, administrative fees or other discounts or to purchase our programs or services. We purchase substantially all of our pharmaceutical products from one vendor and a disruption in our purchasing arrangements could adversely impact our business. We purchase substantially all of our prescription products, subject to certain minimum periodic purchase levels and excluding purchases of therapeutic plasma products, from a single wholesaler, ADBC, pursuant to a prime vendor agreement. The term of this agreement extends until August 2012, subject to extension for up to two additional years. Any significant disruption in our relationship with ABDC, or in ABDC's supply of products to us, would make it difficult and possibly more costly for us to continue to operate our business until we are able to execute a replacement wholesaler agreement. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find a replacement wholesaler on a timely basis or that such wholesaler would be able to fulfill our demands on similar financial terms. If we are unable to identify a replacement on substantially similar financial terms, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially adverse affected. Failure to develop new products, services and delivery channels may adversely affect our business. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We develop new products and services from time to time to assist our clients. If we are unsuccessful in developing innovative products and services, our ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients may suffer. Technology is also an important component of our business as we continue to utilize new and better channels to communicate and interact with our clients, members and business partners. If our competitors are more successful than us in employing this technology, our ability to attract new clients, retain existing clients and operate efficiently may suffer. The success of our business depends on maintaining a well-secured business and technology infrastructure. We are dependent on our infrastructure, including our information systems, for many aspects of our business operations. A fundamental requirement for our business is the secure storage and transmission of personal health information and other confidential data. Our business and operations may be harmed if we do not maintain our business processes and information systems in a secure manner, and maintain and improve continually the integrity of our confidential information. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect information against security breaches, failure to protect such information or mitigate any such breaches may adversely affect our operating results. Malfunctions in our business processes, breaches of our information systems or the failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems could disrupt our business operations, result in customer and member disputes, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation, result in regulatory violations, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences. 18 Table of Contents Problems in the implementation and conversion of our new pharmacy system could result in additional expense. The Company has committed significant financial and other resources to migrate to a new pharmacy dispensing, clinical management and accounts receivable management system designed to streamline our business processes, provide improved data reporting, data management, scalability and cash posting and billing and collections. Delays in the implementation of this system could result in higher operating costs, additional charges for system design changes or delays in the execution of our strategic plan due to our inability to scale our current operating systems. Our failure to maintain controls and processes over billing and collecting could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The collection of accounts receivable is a significant challenge and requires constant focus and involvement by management and ongoing enhancements to information systems and billing center operating procedures. If we are unable to properly bill and collect our accounts receivable, our results could be materially and adversely affected. While management believes that controls and processes are satisfactory there can be no assurance that accounts receivable collectability will remain at current levels. Efforts to reduce healthcare costs and alter health care financing practices could adversely affect our business. During the past several years, the U.S. healthcare industry has been subject to increased governmental regulation at both the Federal and state levels. Certain proposals have been made at the Federal and state government levels in an effort to control healthcare costs, including proposing to lower reimbursement under Medicaid and Medicare programs. These proposals include “single payor” government funded healthcare and price controls on prescription drugs. If these or similar efforts are successful, our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, changing political, economic and regulatory influences may affect healthcare financing and reimbursement practices. If the current healthcare financing and reimbursement system changes significantly, our business could be materially adversely affected. Congress periodically considers proposals to reform the U.S. healthcare system. Both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives approved reform legislation in late 2009 and the Obama administration has submitted a 2010 Federal budget that emphasizes maintaining patient choice, reducing inefficiencies and costs, increasing prevention programs, improving coverage portability and universality, and improving quality of care. These proposals may also increase government involvement in healthcare providers reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid, or otherwise change the way in which our clients do business. Plan Sponsors may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by reducing or delaying purchases of clinical services, cost control mechanisms and other related services that we provide. We cannot predict what effect, if any, these proposals may have on our business. Other legislative or market-driven changes in the healthcare system that we cannot anticipate could also materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations. Prescription volumes may decline, and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted, when products are withdrawn from the market or when increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs result in utilization decreases. We process significant volumes of pharmacy claims for brand-name and generic drugs from our mail service and community pharmacies and through our network of retail pharmacies. These volumes are the basis for our net revenues and profitability. When products are withdrawn by manufacturers, or when increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs or classes of drugs result in utilization decreases, physicians may cease writing or reduce the numbers of prescriptions written for these higher-risk drugs. Additionally, negative media reports regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced consumer demand for such drugs. In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our prescription volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. The loss of a relationship with one or more Plan Sponsors could negatively impact our business. Where we do not have preferred or exclusive arrangements with Plan Sponsors, our contracts for reimbursement with Plan Sponsors are often on a perpetual or “evergreen” basis. These evergreen contracts are subject to termination by a Plan Sponsor’s written notice. The required notice varies by contract and is typically 30 to 90 days. Depending on the amount of revenues generated by any single Plan Sponsor or more than one Plan Sponsor in the aggregate, one or more terminations could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial performance. We are unaware of any intention by a Plan Sponsor to terminate or not renew an agreement with us. 19 Table of Contents Network lock-outs by health insurers and PBMs could adversely affect our financial results. Many Plan Sponsors and PBMs continue to create exclusive specialty networks which limit a member’s access to a mail service facility or network of preferred pharmacies. To the extent our pharmacies are excluded from these networks, we are unable to dispense medications to those members and bill for prescriptions to those member’s insurance carriers. If these specialty networks continue to expand and we are locked out from dispensing specialty medications to members of exclusive networks, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to complete the acquisition of CHS could negatively impact the stock price and the future business and financial results of BioScrip. As previously announced, on January 24, 2010, we entered into an agreement to acquire CHS, a privately held company that is a leading provider of home infusion and home nursing services and products. See Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information. Although we have agreed to use our reasonable efforts to obtain stockholder approval of the issuance of shares of our common stock necessary to complete the acquisition of CHS, there is no assurance that the acquisition will be approved. If the share issuance is not approved, and as a result the acquisition is not completed, we will have expended substantial sums, including a possible termination fee of $1.0 million payable to CHS, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we expect that the merger with CHS will result in benefits to BioScrip, we may not realize those benefits because of integration difficulties. We may not be able to successfully integrate CHS with BioScrip. The inability to achieve the full extent of, or any of the anticipated synergies of, the acquisition of CHS, including anticipated cost savings and additional revenue opportunities, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Realizing the benefits of the merger will depend in part on the integration of information technology, operations and personnel. These integration activities are complex and time-consuming and we may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs. We may not successfully integrate the operations of the businesses of CHS in a timely manner, and we may not realize the anticipated net reductions in costs and expenses and other benefits and synergies of the merger with CHS to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. In addition to the integration risks discussed above, our ability to realize these net reductions in costs and expenses and other benefits and synergies could be adversely impacted by practical or legal constraints on our ability to combine operations. We anticipate that the significant indebtedness that will be incurred if we complete the merger with CHS will impose operating and financial restrictions on us which, together with the resulting debt service obligations, may significantly limit our ability to execute our business strategy and increase the risk of default under our debt obligations. We intend to borrow an aggregate of approximately $325.0 million (not including up to $50.0 million that would also be available under our new revolving credit facility) in connection with the merger. We expect that the terms of our new credit facilities that we will enter into in connection with the merger will require us to comply with certain financial covenants, including a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. In addition, the proposed terms of our new indebtedness also include certain covenants restricting or limiting our ability to, among other things: · incur indebtedness or liens; · make investments or capital expenditures; · engage in mergers, acquisitions or asset sales; · declare dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · modify our organizational documents; and · change our fiscal year. 20 Table of Contents Our significant indebtedness could have important consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital and other purposes; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our debt; making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and government regulations; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with those of our competitors with less debt; and exposing us to risks in inherent interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates. In addition, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations to repay our indebtedness when it becomes due and to meet our other cash needs. If this happens and we are not able to refinance our debt, sell additional debt or equity securities or our assets on favorable terms, if at all, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenues. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 