Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this Form 10-K or our other SEC filings, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operation. 9 Table of Contents Because of the rapid technology changes in our industry, we may not be able to compete if we cannot quickly develop and introduce differentiating and innovative products. We operate in a highly competitive environment against competitors who are both larger and smaller than we are in terms of resources and market share. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions. In these highly competitive and changing markets, our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to develop and introduce differentiated and innovative products and services cost-effectively and on a timely basis. The success of our offerings is dependent on several factors including our differentiation from competitive offerings, timing of new product introductions, effectiveness of marketing programs and maintaining low manufacturing, sourcing and supply chain costs. No assurance can be given with regard to our ability to anticipate and react to changes in market requirements, react to the actions of competitors or react to the pace and direction of technology changes. Since price competition is a common factor in the data storage removable media markets, we risk reducing profitability if we cannot reduce costs and manage inventory in line with price declines. We expect price pressures across our portfolio of products, but it cannot be easily predicted since it can vary in intensity by specific product and region and can fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our financial results in any quarter can be impacted by the intensity of price pressure and the amount of impacted revenue relative to our overall revenue mix. We cannot provide assurance that we will successfully anticipate and react to price declines or successfully implement cost reduction strategies in manufacturing or sourcing. If we cannot obtain finished products or raw materials at projected costs, we may not be able to maintain expected levels of profitability. We make significant purchases of finished products, raw materials and energy from many domestic and foreign sources. No assurances can be given that acceptable cost levels will continue in the future. In addition, some critical raw materials have a limited number of suppliers. If we cannot obtain those raw materials from the suppliers, we will not be able to produce certain of our products. If we do not achieve the expected benefit from Memorex and other future acquisitions, our financial results may be negatively impacted. In April 2006, we closed on the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Memorex. Any acquisition involves numerous risks, including, among others, difficulties in assimilating operations and products, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, potential loss of our key employees and those of acquired businesses, potential exposure to unknown liabilities and possible loss of our clients and customers and those of acquired businesses. One or more of these factors could negatively impact our future results of operations. As to future acquisitions, we cannot predict whether suitable acquisition candidates will be identified and acquired on acceptable terms or whether any acquired products, technologies or businesses will contribute to our revenues or earnings to any material extent. Acquisitions typically result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities or debt, or additional amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets, and one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We must make strategic decisions from time to time as to the products and technologies in which we invest and if we choose the wrong product or technology, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Our operating results are dependent upon our ability to successfully develop, manufacture, source and market innovative new products and services. New product and technology innovations may require a substantial investment before any assurance is available as to their commercial viability. We may be dependent on third parties for new product introductions or technologies in order to introduce our own new products. We are dependent in some cases upon various third parties, such as certain drive manufacturers, for the introduction and acceptance of new products, the timing of which is out of our control. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will maintain existing or create new OEM relationships. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have access to significant proprietary technologies through internal development and licensing arrangements with third parties, or that we will continue to have access to new competitive technologies that may be required to introduce new products. If we are not successful in maintaining and developing new relationships with OEMs or obtaining rights to use competitive technologies, we may become less competitive in certain markets. Our financial success depends upon our ability to manufacture, source and deliver products to our customers at acceptable quality, volume and cost levels. Our success in magnetic tape depends on our ability to source, manufacture and deliver products to our customers at acceptable quality, volume and cost levels. The manufacture 10 Table of Contents of our products involves complex and precise processes requiring production in highly controlled and clean environments. If we do not manage these processes effectively, changes could significantly hurt our ability to meet our customers’ product volume and quality needs at acceptable costs. Even within a clean room environment, minor equipment malfunctions in any one of the many manufacturing process steps could halt production and lead to additional costs. Further, existing manufacturing techniques may not achieve our volume and cost targets. In these cases, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop new manufacturing processes and techniques to achieve theses targets. If we do not achieve the expected benefits from our joint venture with MBI, our financial results may be negatively impacted. In 2003, we entered into a series of agreements with MBI that established MBI as a significant, non-exclusive source for our optical media products and created GDM as a joint venture sales and distribution company for optical media products. We hold a 51 percent interest in GDM and MBI holds a 49 percent interest. As the controlling shareholder of this subsidiary, we consolidate the results of GDM in our financial statements. Our current outlook is dependent, among other things, upon our ability to achieve the expected benefits in a timely manner from this relationship. Our financial results may be affected by the political climate and laws in the countries in which we do business and by fluctuations in world financial markets. Our products are sold in approximately 100 countries and over half our revenue comes from sales outside the United States. Our international operations may be subject to various risks which are not present in domestic operations, including political instability, terrorist activity, the possibility of expropriation, trade tariffs or embargoes, unfavorable tax laws, restrictions on royalties, dividend and currency remittances, changes in foreign laws and regulations, requirements for governmental approvals for new ventures and local participation in operations such as local equity ownership and workers’ councils. In addition, our business and financial results are affected by fluctuations in world financial markets, including foreign currency exchange rates. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights, including the Memorex brand, and to defend ourselves against intellectual property infringement claims of others, including the Philips patent cross-license. Claims may arise from time to time alleging that we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. If we are not successful in defending ourselves against those claims, we could incur substantial costs in implementing remediation actions, such as redesigning our products or processes, paying for license rights or paying to settle disputes. The related costs or the disruption to our operations could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we utilize valuable non-patented technical know-how and trade secrets in our product development and manufacturing operations. There can be no assurance that confidentiality agreements and other measures we utilize to protect such proprietary information will be effective, that these agreements will not be breached or that our competitors will not acquire the information as a result or through independent development. We enforce our intellectual property rights against others who infringe those rights. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a description of our dispute with Philips. If we are unable to attract and retain employees and key talent, we may incur a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. We operate in a highly competitive market for employees with specialized skill, experience and industry knowledge. No assurance can be given that we will be able to attract and retain employees and key talent. Significant litigation matters could result in large costs and distraction to our business. We are subject to various pending or threatened legal actions, including the Philips dispute, in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is always subject to many uncertainties and outcomes that are not predictable. We cannot ascertain the ultimate aggregate amount of any monetary liability or financial impact that may be incurred by us in litigation. Our stock price may be subject to significant volatility due to our own results or market trends. If revenue, earnings or cash flows in any quarter fail to meet the investment community’s expectations, there could be an immediate negative impact on our stock price. Our stock price may also be affected by broader market trends and world events unrelated to our performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 11 Table of Contents 