ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information provided in the Stockholder Report on Form 10-K. CHANGES IN ECONOMIC CONDITIONS OR INTEREST RATES MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS, CAPITAL AND LIQUIDITY. The results of operations for financial institutions, including our bank, may be materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing local and national economic conditions, including declines in real estate market values, rapid increases or decreases in interest rates and changes in the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is heavily influenced by the spread between the interest rates we earn on investments and loans and the interest rates we pay on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Substantially all our loans are to businesses and individuals in southeastern Michigan and any decline in the economy of this area could adversely affect us. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in these rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities may be such that they are affected differently by a given change in interest rates. OUR CREDIT LOSSES COULD INCREASE AND OUR ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES MAY NOT BE ADEQUATE TO COVER ACTUAL LOAN LOSSES. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities and nonpayment, if it occurs, may have a material adverse affect on our earnings and overall financial condition as well as the value of our common stock. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance for credit and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses, thereby having an adverse effect on our operating results, and may cause us to increase the allowance in the future. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses cannot now be determined and may exceed the amount of past provisions. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for credit losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or to recognize further loan or lease charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for credit losses could have a negative effect on our net income, financial condition and results of operations. 5 COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) A DOWNTURN IN THE REAL ESTATE MARKET COULD HURT OUR BUSINESS. Downturns in the real estate market hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral is diminished, and we are more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 89% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by various types of real estate. Substantially all of our real property collateral is located in Michigan. If there is a further decline in real estate values, especially in Michigan, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. REPAYMENT OF OUR COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE LOANS AND OUR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOANS IS OFTEN DEPENDENT ON THE BORROWER'S BUSINESS, ITS CASHFLOW AND OUR COLLATERAL. Commercial real estate lending typically involves higher principal amounts than other types of lending, and the repayment of these loans may be dependent, in part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate often depend upon the successful operation and management of the properties, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower's control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulation. If the cash flow from the project is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the security for the loan may be impaired. Repayment of our commercial and industrial loans is often dependent on cash flow of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Our commercial loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the value of the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or real estate. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. Other collateral securing loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Adverse changes in local economic conditions impacting our business borrowers can be expected to have a negative effect on our results of operations and capital. DECLINE IN THE AVAILABILITY OF OUT-OF-AREA DEPOSITS COULD CAUSE LIQUIDITY OR INTEREST RATE MARGIN CONCERNS, OR LIMIT OUR GROWTH. We have utilized and expect to continue to utilize out-of-area or wholesale deposits to support our asset growth. These deposits are generally a lower cost source of funds when compared to the interest rates that we would have to offer in our local markets to generate a commensurate level of funds. In addition, the overhead costs associated with wholesale deposits are considerably less than the overhead costs we would incur to obtain and administer a similar level of local deposits. A decline in the availability of these wholesale deposits would require us to fund our growth with more costly funding sources, which could reduce our net interest margin, limit our growth, reduce our asset size or increase our overhead costs. WE MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTIES IN GENERATING OR RAISING SUFFICIENT CAPITAL TO SUPPORT OUR GROWTH. To sustain our continued growth, we require additional capital to fund our expanding lending and deposit gathering activities. New branches often experience a period of unprofitability due to the impact of overhead expenses and the start-up costs of generating loans and deposits. To the extent that we continue to open additional branches, we may experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on our levels of net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. In addition, we may acquire banks and related businesses that we believe provide a strategic fit with our business. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage such growth. Acquiring other banks and businesses involves risks, including (i) dilution of existing stockholders; (ii) additional leverage and decreased liquidity; (iii) integration risks; (iv) performance risks of the business acquired; (v) diverting management's focus away from our core business; and (vi) entering into new markets or offering new products and services with which management has limited prior experience. 6 COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) WE RELY HEAVILY ON OUR MANAGEMENT AND OTHER KEY PERSONNEL, AND THE LOSS OF ANY OF THEM MAY ADVERSELY EFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. The Corporation and subsidiaries continue to be dependent upon the services of our management team, including the executive officers named in Part I of this Form 10-K and other senior managers and commercial lenders. Losing one or more members of management could adversely affect our operations. The Corporation has key man life insurance in the form of Bank Owned Life Insurance on selected executive officers, but this insurance is only applicable on the death of one or more of these individuals. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS IN DEPENDENT ON OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY IN THE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE BANKING INDUSTRY. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous Michigan-based and out-of-state banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banks and other financial institutions as well as other entities which provide financial services. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are. Most of our competitors have been in business for many years, have established customer bases, are larger, and have substantially higher lending limits than we do. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. WE ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT GOVERNMENT REGULATION, AND ANY REGULATORY CHANGES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT US. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. These regulations are primarily intended to protect customers, not our creditors or shareholders. As a bank holding company, we are also subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Reserve, in addition to other regulatory and self-regulatory organizations. Our ability to establish new facilities or make acquisitions is conditioned upon the receipt of the required regulatory approvals from these organizations. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of such changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. WE CONTINUALLY ENCOUNTER TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES, AND WE MAY HAVE FEWER RESOURCES THAN OUR COMPETITORS TO CONTINUE TO INVEST IN TECHNOLOGICAL IMPROVEMENTS. The banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Corporation's future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers. OUR ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND BY-LAWS AND MICHIGAN LAWS CONTAIN CERTAIN PROVISIONS THAT COULD MAKE A TAKEOVER MORE DIFFICULT. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws, and the laws of Michigan, include provisions which are designed to provide our board of directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in the best interest of the Corporation and our shareholders. These provisions, however, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. The provisions also could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then-current price for our common stock. These provisions could also prevent transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices, and may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. 7 COMMUNITY CENTRAL BANK CORPORATION FORM 10-K (continued) The Michigan Business Corporation Act contains provisions intended to protect shareholders and prohibit or discourage certain types of hostile takeover activities. In addition to these provisions and the provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws, Federal law requires the Federal Reserve Board's approval prior to acquisition of "control" of a bank holding company. All of these provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control at the company level without action by our shareholders, and therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. OUR ABILITY TO PAY DIVIDENDS IS LIMITED BY LAW AND CONTRACT. We are a holding company and substantially all of our assets are held by our bank. Our ability to continue to make dividend payments to our shareholders will depend primarily on available cash resources at the holding company and dividends from our bank. Dividend payments or extensions of credit from our bank are subject to regulatory limitations, generally based on capital levels and current and retained earnings, imposed by regulatory agencies with authority over our bank. The ability of our bank to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. We are also prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock if the required payments on our subordinated debentures have not been made. We cannot assure you that our bank will be able to pay dividends to us in the future. THERE IS A LIMITED TRADING MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK. The price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, subject to fluctuations based on, among other things, economic and market conditions for bank holding companies and the stock market in general, as well as changes in investor perceptions of our company. The issuance of new shares of our common stock also may affect the market for our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol "CCBD." The development and maintenance of an active public trading market depends upon the existence of willing buyers and sellers, the presence of which is beyond our control. While we are a publicly-traded company, the volume of trading activity in our stock is still relatively limited. Even if a more active market develops, there can be no assurance that such a market will continue, or that our shareholders will be able to sell their shares at or above the offering price. 