Item 1A. Risk Factors Unfavorable economic and market conditions could reduce our sales and profitability and increase the cost of financing, possibly adversely affecting our operating results. Economic conditions deteriorated in the U.S. in 2008 and are expected to continue to deteriorate in 2009, and as such, credit markets have tightened and the outlook for the economy and financial markets is uncertain. Factors and conditions that could affect us include short-term and long-term interest rates, unemployment, inflation, limited availability of consumer financing and actions taken at both the Federal and state levels to reduce healthcare costs and balance state budgets. The effect of these actions could reduce enrollment in governmental programs or benefits available to enrollees. Limited or expensive access to credit could reduce the ability of the patients we serve to pay deductibles and co-insurance. Higher unemployment rates and significant employment layoffs and downsizings may lead to lower numbers of patients enrolled in employer-provided plans. The adverse economic conditions could also cause employers to stop offering, or limit, certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or cause them to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs, leaving the patient’s ability to pay in question and increasing the likelihood that compliance to drug therapies will be interrupted. 15 Table of Contents During an economic downturn, Federal and state budgets could be adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments by our Federal and state government health care coverage programs in which we participate, including Medicare, Medicaid and other Federal or state assistance plans. Also, a reduction in state Medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented to agreements already negotiated with the government and could adversely affect our revenues and financial results. Government programs could also slow or temporarily suspend payments on Medicaid obligations, negatively impacting our cash flow and increase our working capital needs and interest payments. Availability of financing sources The 2008 economic crisis caused contraction in the credit markets and the availability of credit has remained restricted into 2009. While we believe our existing financing relationship is good and our credit facility is adequate to cover our needs, this agreement has historically been our largest source of funding and expires in the fourth quarter of 2010. There can be no assurances that this agreement will continue beyond its current maturity. In addition, if extreme market conditions continue or if our primary financing source were to fail, we can provide no assurance that any financing sources would be available or favorably priced. Also, future growth may be limited by our ability to gain access to additional capital. Existing and new government legislative and regulatory action could adversely affect our business and financial results. As a participant in the pharmaceutical healthcare services industry, our operations are subject to complex and evolving Federal and state laws and regulations and enforcement by Federal and state governmental agencies. These laws and regulations are described in detail at Part I, Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation.” While we believe we are operating our business in substantial compliance with all existing legal requirements material to the operation of our business, different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, if we fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including our ability to participate in Federal and state healthcare programs. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. In addition, under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2006, additional Federal government matching of state Medicaid funding was provided for states that commit resources to additional auditing of Medicaid and Medicare fraud. This initiative has led to increased auditing activities by state healthcare regulators. As such, we have been the subject of increased audits by these state regulators. While we believe that we are in compliance with Medicaid and Medicare billing rules and requirements, there can be no assurance that regulators disagree with the methodology employed by us in billing for our products and services. While we believe that we are in material and substantial compliance with the billing rules and requirements of Medicaid and Medicare, a material disagreement between us and these governmental agencies on the manner in which we provide products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial position and results of operations. Competition in the pharmaceutical healthcare services industry could reduce profit margins. The pharmaceutical healthcare services industry is very competitive. Our competitors include large and well-established companies that may have greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do. The specialty pharmacy industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are under common control with, or ownership by, pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors, pharmacy benefit managers or retail pharmacy chains and may be better positioned with respect to the cost-effective distribution of pharmaceuticals. In addition, some of our competitors may have secured long-term supply or distribution arrangements for prescription pharmaceuticals necessary to treat certain chronic disease states on price terms substantially more favorable than the terms currently available to us. As a result of such advantageous pricing, we may be less price competitive than some of these competitors with respect to certain pharmaceutical products. Our competitive position could also be adversely affected by any inability to obtain access to new biotech pharmaceutical products. Over the last several years competition in the marketplace has caused many PBMs, including us, to reduce the prices charged to clients for core services and share a larger portion of the formulary fees and rebates received from pharmaceutical manufacturers with clients. This combination of lower pricing and increased rebate sharing, as well as increased demand for enhanced service offerings and higher service levels, have put pressure on operating margins. In addition, some of our larger competitors may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be able to offer. This competition may make it more difficult to maintain existing customers and attract new customers and may cause us to face the risk of declining reimbursement levels without achieving corresponding reductions in costs of revenues. Competition may also come from other sources in the future. 16 Table of Contents As a result, we may not continue to remain competitive in the PBM marketplace, and competition could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance. Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts with our retail pharmacy networks and our PBM Services and Specialty Services pharmacy clients, generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription medications. These benchmarks include AWP, wholesale acquisition cost and average manufacturer price. Most of our contracts utilize the AWP benchmark. In 2006, First DataBank, a leading provider of electronic drug information to the healthcare industry, entered into a proposed settlement to address certain practices regarding the establishment of the benchmark AWP for medications. In 2007, Medi-Span entered into a proposed settlement agreement similar to that agreed to by First DataBank. We are paid by many Health Plans and PBMs as a mail order and specialty pharmacy using AWP as reported by First DataBank. The court, presiding in both settlements, denied without prejudice final approval of the proposed settlements. In May and July 2008, First DataBank and Medi-Span, respectively, submitted amended and restated settlement agreements for the courts approval. The court granted preliminary approval of the revised settlements, and recently held a hearing on final approval, which is pending. If the proposed settlements, or another settlement including similar provisions is ultimately approved, it may have industry-wide impact on prescription pricing. Most of our provider and payor agreements contain provisions that allow us to manage the impact of this proposed settlement, if ratified as is or modified by the parties or the court. However, we can give no assurance that the short or long-term impact of changes to industry pricing benchmarks will not have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, results of operations and financial condition in future periods. Client demands for enhanced service levels or possible loss or unfavorable modification of contracts with clients or providers could pressure margins. As our clients face the continued rapid growth in prescription drug costs, they may demand additional services and enhanced service levels to help mitigate the increase in spending. We operate in a very competitive environment, and we may not be able to increase our fees to compensate for these increased services, which could put pressure on our margins. Our contracts with clients generally do not have terms longer than three years and, in some cases, may be terminated by the client on relatively short notice. Our clients generally seek bids from other PBM or specialty providers in advance of the expiration of their contracts. If several of these clients elect not to extend their relationship with us, and we are not successful in generating sales to replace the lost business, our future business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we believe the managed care industry is undergoing substantial consolidation, and another party that is not our client could acquire some of our managed care clients. In such case, the likelihood such client would renew its contract with us could be reduced. More than 58,000 retail pharmacies, which represent more than 98% of all United States retail pharmacies, participate in our PBM pharmacy network. The top ten retail pharmacy chains represent approximately 48% of the total number of stores and over 60% of prescriptions filled in our network. Our contracts with retail pharmacies, which are non-exclusive, are generally terminable on relatively short notice. If one or more of the top pharmacy chains elects to terminate its relationship with us, our members’ access to retail pharmacies and our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, many large pharmacy chains either own PBMs today, or could attempt to acquire a PBM in the future. Ownership of PBMs by retail pharmacy chains could have material adverse effects on our relationships with such pharmacy chains and on our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations. Pending and future litigation could subject us to significant monetary damages and/or require us to change our business practices. We are subject to risks relating to litigation and other proceedings in connection with our operations, including the dispensing of pharmaceutical products by our mail service and community pharmacies. A list of the more material proceedings pending against us is included under Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” While we believe that these suits are without merit and intend to contest them vigorously, we can give no assurance that an adverse outcome in one or more of these suits would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations, or would not require us to make material changes to our business practices. We are presently responding to several subpoenas and requests for information from governmental agencies. We confirmed that BioScrip is not a target or a potential subject of those investigations and requests. We cannot predict with certainty what the outcome of any of the foregoing might be. In addition to potential monetary liability arising from these suits and proceedings, we are incurring costs in the 17 Table of Contents defense of the suits and in providing documents to government agencies. Certain of the costs are covered by our insurance, but certain other costs are not insured. Such costs have become material to our financial performances and we can give no assurance that such costs will not increase in the future. We may be subject to liability claims for damages and other expenses that are not covered by insurance. A successful product or professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Various aspects of our business may subject us to litigation and liability for damages, including the performance of PBM Services and the operation of our pharmacies. For example, a prescription drug dispensing error could result in a patient receiving the wrong or incorrect amount of medication, leading to personal injury or death. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer if we pay damages or defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of any applicable contractual indemnity or insurance coverage. Loss of relationships with one or more pharmaceutical manufacturers and changes in payments made by pharmaceutical manufacturers could adversely affect our business and financial results. We have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers that provide discounts on drugs dispensed from our mail service and community pharmacies, and pay service fees for other programs and services that we provide. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected if: (i) we were to lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers; (ii) discounts decline due to changes in utilization of specified pharmaceutical products by health Plan Sponsors and other clients; (iii) legal restrictions are imposed on the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers to offer rebates, administrative fees or other discounts or to purchase our programs or services; or (iv) pharmaceutical manufacturers choose not to offer rebates, administrative fees or other discounts or to purchase our programs or services. Failure to develop new products, services and delivery channels may adversely affect our business. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We develop new products and services from time to time to assist our clients in managing the pharmacy benefit. If we are unsuccessful in developing innovative products and services, our ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients may suffer. Technology is also an important component of our business as we continue to utilize new and better channels to communicate and interact with our clients, members and business partners. If our competitors are more successful than us in employing this technology, our ability to attract new clients, retain existing clients and operate efficiently may suffer. The success of our business depends on maintaining a well-secured business and technology infrastructure. We are dependent on our infrastructure, including our information systems, for many aspects of our business operations. A fundamental requirement for our business is the secure storage and transmission of personal health information and other confidential data. Our business and operations may be harmed if we do not maintain our business processes and information systems, and the integrity of our confidential information. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect information against security breaches, failure to protect such information or mitigate any such breaches may adversely affect our operating results. Malfunctions in our business processes, breaches of our information systems or the failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems could disrupt our business operations, result in customer and member disputes, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation, result in regulatory violations, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences. The use of personal health information in our business is regulated at Federal, state and local levels. These laws and rules change frequently and developments often require adjustments or modifications to our technology infrastructure. Noncompliance with these regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Problems in the implementation and conversion of our new pharmacy system could result in additional expense. The Company has committed significant resources in a new pharmacy dispensing, clinical management and accounts receivable management system designed to streamline our business processes, provide improved data reporting, data management, scalability and cash posting and billing and collections. Delays in the implementation of this system could result in higher operating costs, additional charges for system design changes or delays 18 Table of Contents in the execution of our strategic plan due to our inability to scale our current operating systems. Our failure to maintain controls and processes over billing and collecting could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The collection of accounts receivable is a significant challenge and requires constant focus and involvement by management and ongoing enhancements to information systems and billing center operating procedures. If we are unable to properly bill and collect our accounts receivable, our results could be materially and adversely affected. While management believes that controls and processes are satisfactory there can be no assurance that accounts receivable collectability will remain at current levels. Efforts to reduce healthcare costs and alter health care financing practices could adversely affect our business. During the past several years, the U.S. healthcare industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the Federal and state levels. Certain proposals have been made at the Federal and state government levels in an effort to control healthcare costs, including lowering reimbursement and/or proposing to lower reimbursement under Medicaid and Medicare programs. These proposals include “single payor” government funded healthcare and price controls on prescription drugs. If these or similar efforts are successful our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, changing political, economic and regulatory influences may affect healthcare financing and reimbursement practices. If the current healthcare financing and reimbursement system changes significantly, our business could be materially adversely affected. Congress periodically considers proposals to reform the U.S. healthcare system. These proposals may increase government involvement in healthcare and regulation of PBM services, or otherwise change the way our clients do business. Plan Sponsors may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by reducing or delaying purchases of cost control mechanisms and related services that we provide. We cannot predict what effect, if any, these proposals may have on our business. Other legislative or market-driven changes in the healthcare system that we cannot anticipate could also materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations. Prescription volumes may decline, and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted, when products are withdrawn from the market or when increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs result in utilization decreases. We process significant volumes of pharmacy claims for brand-name and generic drugs from our mail service and community pharmacies and through our network of retail pharmacies. These volumes are the basis for our net revenues and profitability. When products are withdrawn by manufacturers, or when increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs or classes of drugs result in utilization decreases, physicians may cease writing or reduce the numbers of prescriptions written for these drugs. Additionally, negative media reports regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced consumer demand for such drugs. In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our prescription volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. The loss of a relationship with one or more Plan Sponsors could negatively impact our business. Where we do not have preferred or exclusive arrangements with Plan Sponsors, our contracts for reimbursement with Plan Sponsors are often on a perpetual or “evergreen” basis. These evergreen contracts are subject to termination by a Plan Sponsor upon 30, 60 or 90 days notice. Depending on the significance of the Plan Sponsor or Plan Sponsors in the aggregate as a percentage of revenue, one or more terminations could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial performance. We are unaware of any intention by a Plan Sponsor to terminate or not renew an agreement with us. Network lock-outs by health insurers could adversely affect our financial results. Many Plan Sponsors and PBMs continue to create exclusive specialty networks which limit a member’s access to a mail service facility or network of preferred pharmacies. To the extent our pharmacies are excluded from these networks, we are unable to dispense medications to those members and bill for prescriptions to those members insurance carriers. If these specialty networks continue to expand and we are locked out from dispensing specialty medications to members of exclusive networks, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 