Risk Factors The cautionary statements set forth below, as well as factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other SEC filings, discuss important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements. Our future growth is dependent on the sales process and market acceptance of our products and services. Our future performance depends on our ability to maintain and increase revenues from new and existing customers. Our sales process to acquire new customers is typically extended in duration, because of industry factors such as the approval process in hospitals for purchases from new suppliers, the duration of existing supply contracts, and implementation delays pending termination of a hospital’s previous supply relationships. Our future performance also depends on the market accepting our product and service offerings, which emphasize the supply of reusable surgical products to a market that predominantly uses disposable products. We are also regularly developing new instrument processing programs. We are subject to a risk that the market will not broadly accept these product offerings, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. We might need additional capital in the future, which might not be available. Our business is capital intensive and requires annual capital expenditures for additional surgical products. Should we need or otherwise decide to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds, if needed, on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements or otherwise support our operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis - Liquidity and Capital Resources”. The inability of a key supplier to perform may leave us without a source of supplies and could adversely affect our operating results. We rely on Aesculap as our major source of supply of instruments for our instrument processing programs. Any failure of Aesculap to furnish instruments for any reason would materially and adversely affect our ability to service these programs until we secured one or more alternative suppliers. We also have a procurement agreement with Standard Textile as our supply source for our reusable surgical products through August 2008. If Standard Textile were unable to perform under this agreement, we would be materially and adversely affected until we secured alternative suppliers. The loss of a significant customer or purchasing organization could adversely affect our operating results. During 2005, hospitals belonging to three GPO’s, Novation, LLC, HealthTrust Purchasing Group, L.P. and MedAssets, Inc., accounted for approximately 56% of our sales. No single health care provider accounts for more than 8% of our sales. Our business with these GPO’s is pursuant to short-term agreements, which are subject to renewal from time to time through competitive processes. Although each GPO member hospital currently makes its purchasing decisions on an individual basis, the loss of a substantial portion of the GPO hospitals’ business would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Intense competition in the markets in which we operate could adversely affect us. Our business is highly competitive. Competitors include a number of distributors and manufacturers, as well as the in-house reprocessing operations of hospitals. Certain of our existing and potential competitors possess substantially greater resources than we. Some of our competitors, including Allegiance Corporation (a subsidiary of Cardinal Health, Inc.) and Medline Industries, Inc., serve as the sole supplier of a wide assortment of products to a significant number of hospitals. While we have a substantial array of surgical products, many of our competitors have a greater number of products for the entire hospital, which in some instances is a competitive disadvantage for us. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with existing or potential competitors. See “Business—Competition.” 5 Table of Contents The loss of key executives and employees could adversely affect us. Our success depends upon the contributions of executives and key employees. The loss of executives and certain key employees in sales, operations and marketing could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to penetrate our markets, operate efficiently, and develop and sell new products and services. We also believe our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel. Our ability to effectively grow depends on our ability to improve our operational systems. We have expanded our operations since inception and may continue to expand to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth places a significant demand on management, financial and operational resources. To manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis and continue to invest in the operational infrastructure of our business. Our product liability insurance may not be sufficient to cover all claims. The use of medical devices such as surgical instruments entails an inherent risk of product liability or other claims initiated by patients or hospitals. Any of those claims in excess of our insurance coverage or not covered by insurance could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in federal or state regulations could materially adversely affect us. Significant aspects of our businesses are subject to federal, state and local statutes and regulations governing, among other things, medical waste-disposal and workplace health and safety. In addition, most of the products furnished or sold by us are subject to regulation as medical devices by the FDA, as well as by other federal, state and local agencies. Our facilities are subject to quality systems inspections by FDA officials. The FDA has the power to enjoin future violations, seize adulterated or misbranded devices, and require the manufacturer to remove products from the market, and publicize relevant facts. Federal, state or local governments might impose additional restrictions or adopt interpretations of existing laws that could materially adversely affect us. See “Business Regulation.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 6 Table of Contents 