Risk Factors The volatility of natural gas and oil prices may affect our financial results. As an independent natural gas and oil producer, our revenues, operating results, profitability and future rate of growth are highly dependent on the price of, and demand for, the natural gas and oil that we sell. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Even relatively modest changes in natural gas and oil prices may significantly change our revenues, results of operations, cash flows and proved reserves. Historically, the markets for natural gas and oil have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for natural gas and oil may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: § the domestic and foreign supply of natural gas and oil; § weather conditions; § the price of foreign imports; § overall domestic and global economic conditions; § terrorist attacks or military conflicts; § political and economic conditions in oil producing countries; § the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; § the level of demand and the price and availability of alternative fuels; § speculation in the commodity futures markets; § technological advances affecting energy consumption; § domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including regulations imposed by Native American tribes; and § approvals, proximity and capacity of natural gas and oil pipelines and other transportation facilities. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future natural gas and oil price movements with any certainty. Declines in natural gas and oil prices would not only reduce our revenues, but could reduce the amount of natural gas and oil we can economically produce. This may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, market prices for natural gas and oil do not necessarily move in direct relationship to each other. We are more affected by movements in the price and demand for natural gas, as approximately 92% of our total proved reserves at December 31, 2005 were natural gas. Our ability to sell assets and replace revenues generated from any sale of our Gulf of Mexico properties depends upon market conditions and numerous uncertainties. In November 2005, we announced our intent to explore the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets and to shift our operating focus onshore. While we have announced the pending sale of the Texas portion of our Gulf of Mexico assets and the sale process for the remaining offshore assets is ongoing, there can be no assurance that we will sell our remaining offshore assets. Although we plan to reinvest the proceeds from any sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in onshore producing assets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to find suitable properties on attractive terms. Our operating revenues and cash flows are expected to decrease significantly following the sale of these assets and are expected to remain at lower levels until we are able to replace the lost production with production from new properties. Our level of indebtedness may limit our financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2005, we had long-term indebtedness of $597 million, with $422 million drawn under our revolving bank credit facility and $175 million of 7% senior subordinated notes. Our long-term indebtedness represented 46% of our total book capitalization at December 31, 2005. As of the date of this Annual Report, outstanding borrowings under our revolving bank credit facility were $407 million. Our level of indebtedness affects our operations in several ways, including the following: § a portion of our cash flows from operating activities must be used to service our debt and is therefore not available for other purposes; § we may be at a competitive disadvantage as compared to similar companies that have less debt; § the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding debt require us to meet certain financial tests and may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, sell assets, repurchase shares of company stock, pay dividends -15- Table of Contents and make certain investments and may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; § we may not be able to easily divest or exchange our onshore assets because these assets have been mortgaged to secure borrowings under our revolving bank credit facility; § additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes may have higher costs and more restrictive covenants; and, § changes in the credit ratings of our debt may negatively affect the cost, terms, conditions and availability of future financing. We may incur additional debt in order to make future acquisitions or develop our properties. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, commodity prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our stock or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. We may be required to take writedowns if natural gas and oil prices decline. We may be required under full cost accounting rules to write down the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties if natural gas and oil prices decline or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our exploration results. We utilize the full cost method of accounting for natural gas and oil exploration and development activities. Under full cost accounting, we are required by SEC regulations to perform a ceiling test each quarter. The ceiling test is an impairment test and generally establishes a maximum, or “ceiling,” of the book value of our natural gas and oil properties that is equal to the expected after tax present value (discounted at 10%) of the future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of cash flow hedges, calculated using prevailing prices on the last day of the period. If the net book value of our natural gas and oil properties (reduced by any related net deferred income tax liability and asset retirement obligation) exceeds our ceiling limitation, SEC regulations require us to impair or “writedown” the book value of our natural gas and oil properties. Depending on the magnitude of any future impairments, a ceiling test writedown could significantly reduce our income, or produce a loss. As ceiling test computations involve the prevailing price on the last day of the quarter, it is impossible to predict the timing and magnitude of any future impairments. The book value of our proved natural gas and oil properties increased in 2005 as a function of our higher acquisition, exploration and development costs for the year and the increase in future development costs associated with reserves added during the year. To the extent our finding and development costs continue to increase as we expect, we will become more susceptible to ceiling test writedowns in low price environments. Lower natural gas and oil prices could negatively impact our ability to borrow. The amount of borrowings available to us under our revolving bank credit facility is determined by reference to a borrowing base. The amount of our borrowing base is established by our banks and is primarily a function of the quantity and value of our reserves. Our borrowing base is re-determined at least twice a year to take into account changes in our reserve base and prevailing commodity prices. Our current borrowing base is $600 million and is expected to be reduced upon completion of the pending sale of the Texas portion of our Gulf of Mexico assets and likely would be reduced further upon any sale of our remaining Gulf of Mexico assets. Commodity prices can affect both the value as well as the quantity of our reserves for borrowing base purposes as certain reserves may not be economic at lower price levels. Additionally, the indenture governing our 7% senior subordinated notes due 2013 conditions our ability to incur additional indebtedness on our satisfaction of tests relating to “earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense” and “consolidated net tangible assets” (as defined in the indenture), both of which are sensitive to commodity prices. Consequently, the amount of borrowing available to us under our revolving bank credit facility as well as our ability to incur additional indebtedness without violating the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes could be adversely affected by extended periods of low commodity prices. Our hedging activities have resulted in financial losses and reduced our income and may continue to do so in the future. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to downward fluctuations in the prices of natural gas, we have historically entered into hedging arrangements for a significant portion, between 70% and 80%, of our production. As -16- Table of Contents of the date of our Annual Report, we have approximately 250 MMBtu per day, or approximately 75% of our projected 2006 natural gas production hedged and less than 10%, or 30 MMBtu per day and 20 MMBtu per day, respectively, hedged for 2007 and 2008. In connection with the possible divestiture of our Gulf of Mexico assets, and after taking into account the impact of any such sale on our production levels and any acquisitions that appear imminent at the time of any such sale, we may and may be required under our revolving bank credit facility to liquidate a portion of our 2006 hedge position. Specifically, if we were to sell all of our Gulf of Mexico assets, we estimate that we would liquidate at least 70 MMBtu per day. Depending on prices in effect at the time of liquidation, we could be required to make a significant payment to settle the open contracts, which payment we would expect to finance with proceeds from the sale of any Gulf of Mexico assets and/or borrowings under our revolving bank credit facility. The derivative instruments that we typically employ require us to make cash payments to the extent the NYMEX price exceeds a predetermined price, thereby limiting our ability to realize the benefit of increases in natural gas prices. As we typically tie our derivative instruments to NYMEX prices as opposed to the local indices where we sell our gas, our hedging strategy may not protect our cash flows if basis differentials increase between the NYMEX and local prices. Under SFAS 133, our income could be negatively affected to the extent our NYMEX-based derivative instruments are deemed ineffective in hedging price fluctuations at our sales points. Historically, our basis differential between the NYMEX price and the Houston Ship Channel index, where approximately 30% of our production is hedged, averaged not more than $0.30 per MMBtu. However, market conditions and extreme price volatility during the fourth quarter of 2005 created in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, caused our average basis differential to increase to $2.40 per MMBtu, causing us to realize significantly lower sales prices for natural gas during the fourth quarter of 2005. In addition, this extreme widening of the basis differential between NYMEX and Houston Ship Channel created a loss of correlation. As a result, our hedged production allocated to the Houston Ship Channel index failed to qualify for hedge accounting. We were required to recognize the change in the fair value of these contracts during the fourth quarter of 2005 as an unrealized gain of $26.1 million ($16.9 million net of tax) in fourth quarter earnings. In future periods, our earnings could fluctuate significantly if these contracts can not be re-designated as cash flow hedges as the mark-to-market changes in the fair value at the end of each future period would be recognized in the income statement. Further, if we experience a sustained material interruption in our production, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our hedging obligations without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial reduction in our liquidity as was the case during the fourth quarter of 2005 when offshore production was significantly curtailed due to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Finally, another risk of hedging activities is that the counterparty in any derivative transaction cannot or will not perform under the hedge contract and that we will not realize the benefit of the hedge. The high-rate production characteristics of our properties subject us to high reserve replacement needs and require significant capital expenditures to replace our reserves at a faster rate than companies whose reserves have longer-life production profiles. Our proved reserve quantities decline as they are produced. To prevent decline in our reserve base, we must conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves. Producing natural gas and oil reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics and other factors. Virtually all of our onshore production is located in prolific natural gas producing regions where completion techniques result in hyperbolic production decline profiles characterized by high initial production rates, followed by rapid intermediate production declines, and culminating in a long-term low production rate subject to a shallow decline. Likewise, our offshore production (as to which we are pursuing a sale) is generally characterized by small reservoirs with high porosity and permeability that produce at very high rates but typically deplete rapidly. Because of the high-rate production profiles of our properties, replacing produced reserves is more important for us than for companies whose reserves have longer-life production profiles. This imposes greater reinvestment risk for our company as we may not be able to continue to replace our reserves or may not be able to do so at an acceptable finding cost. Rising finding and development costs may impair our profitability. In order to continue to grow and to maintain our profitability, we must annually add new reserves exceeding our yearly production at a finding and development cost that yields an acceptable operating margin and depreciation, depletion and amortization rate. Without cost effective exploration, development or acquisition activities, our production, reserves and profitability will decline over time. Given the relative maturity of most gas basins in North America combined with an overall increase in the demand for domestic production, the cost of finding new reserves through exploration and development operations has been increasing. As commodity prices have continued to remain strong, the costs for materials, equipment and services have increased. The acquisition market for natural gas properties has become extremely competitive among producers for additional production and expanded drilling opportunities in North America. Acquisition values on a per unit basis are at or near record levels in certain areas, particularly in our focus areas of South Texas and the Rocky Mountain regions, and we believe these values may continue to increase in 2006. For full cost companies such as -17- Table of Contents ours, this increase in finding and development costs results in higher depreciation, depletion and amortization rates. If finding and development costs continue to increase, we and other full cost companies will be exposed to an increased likelihood of a writedown in carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties in response to falling prices, which would impair our profitability. The success of our business depends upon our ability to find, replace, develop and acquire natural gas and oil reserves. Without successful exploration, development or acquisition activities, our oil and gas reserves and our revenues will decline over time. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our current cost structure while continuing to operate in mature producing basins. It is becoming more difficult to find, replace and develop new reserves at historical costs. The continuing development of reserves and acquisition activities require significant expenditures. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient for this purpose, and we may not be able to obtain the necessary funds from other sources. In addition, as discussed above, if we are not able to replace reserves, the amount of credit available to us may decrease since the amount of borrowing capacity available under our revolving bank credit facility is based, in large part, on the estimated quantities of our proved reserves. Estimates of proved reserves and future net revenue may change if the assumptions on which such estimates are based prove to be inaccurate. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering and geological interpretation and judgment and the assumptions used regarding prices for oil and natural gas, production volumes, required levels of operating and capital expenditures, and quantities of recoverable natural gas and oil reserves. Natural gas and oil prices have fluctuated widely in recent years. Volatility is expected to continue and price fluctuations directly affect estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues. Actual prices, production, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from those assumed in our estimates, and these variances may be significant. Also, we make certain assumptions regarding future natural gas and oil prices, production levels, and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from the assumptions used could result in the actual quantity of our reserves and future net cash flow being materially different from the estimates in our reserve reports. In addition, actual results of drilling, testing and production and changes in natural gas and oil prices after the date of the estimate may result in revisions to our reserve estimates. Revisions to prior estimates may be material. During 2005 and 2004, we incurred downward revisions of our proved reserves of 60 Bcfe and 20 Bcfe, respectively, either from proved undeveloped reserves that were determined to be depleted or otherwise not recoverable, or from production performance indicating less gas in place or smaller reservoir size than initially estimated. We may not be able to meet our substantial capital requirements. Our business is capital intensive. To maintain or increase our base of proved oil and gas reserves, we must invest a significant amount of cash flow from operations in property acquisitions, development and exploration activities. We are currently making and will continue to make substantial capital expenditures to find, develop, acquire and produce natural gas and oil reserves. If our revenues or borrowing base under our revolving bank credit facility decrease as a result of lower natural gas and oil prices, operating difficulties or declines in reserves, we may not be able to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs or acquisition opportunities unless we raise additional funds through debt or equity financings. We may not be able to obtain such debt or equity financings, and cash generated by operations or available under our revolving bank credit facility may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. Our business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses; insurance may not protect us against all these risks. In our operations we may experience hazards and risks inherent in drilling for, producing and transporting natural gas and oil. These hazards and risks may result in loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution, personal injury claims, and other damage to our properties and third parties and include: § fires; § natural disasters, including tropical storms, hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; § explosions; § encountering formations with abnormal pressures; -18- Table of Contents § encountering unusual or unexpected geological formations; § blowouts; § cratering; § unexpected operational events; § equipment malfunctions; § pipeline ruptures; § spills; § compliance with environmental and government regulations; and § title problems. We are insured against some, but not all, of the hazards associated with our business.. Because of this practice, we may sustain losses that could be substantial due to events that are not insured or are underinsured. The occurrence of an event that is not covered or not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because as we do not carry business interruption insurance, the loss and delay of revenues resulting from curtailed production are not insured. Our reserves, production and cash flow are highly dependent upon operations that are concentrated in a small number of areas. During 2005, we generated approximately 97% of our production from three primary areas of operation, with 43% from South Texas, 40% from offshore Gulf of Mexico and 14% from the Arkoma Basin. As we pursue divesting our Gulf of Mexico assets, our operations could become even more geographically concentrated. The concentrated nature of our operations subjects us to the risk that a regional event could cause a significant interruption in our production or otherwise have a material affect on our profitability. This is particularly true of our offshore operations, which are susceptible to hurricanes and other tropical weather disturbances, some of which can be severe enough to cause substantial damage to facilities and production infrastructure. During 2005, we estimate that approximately 10.6 Bcfe of offshore production was either curtailed or delayed as a result of infrastructure damage to third party pipelines and processing facilities caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita that struck the Texas and Louisiana coasts during August and September. Drilling natural gas and oil wells is a high risk activity and subjects us to a variety of factors that we cannot control. Our drilling activities subject us to many risks, including the risk that we will not find commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for natural gas and oil can be unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. Also, title problems, weather conditions, governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services can delay our drilling operations or result in their cancellation. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive. As a result, we may not recover all or any portion of our investment. The availability and cost of rigs, equipment, and personnel could adversely affect our profitability and level of operations. Driven by attractive commodity prices, domestic drilling activity measured as a function of rig utilization has been at very high levels during the past two to three-year period. Given this extended strong demand for drilling rigs and other oil field services necessary to our operation, we experienced increased service and material costs, as well as longer lead times and reduced service availability. We anticipate that this trend will continue in 2006. If current utilization rates continue at levels seen during 2005 or increase, a general shortage of drilling and completion rigs, field equipment and qualified personnel could develop, especially in the areas where we operate. The costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and personnel could be substantially greater than in previous years. If we do not have access to necessary oil field services at a reasonable cost, we could be forced to curtail certain operations and the profitability of those operations that we do conduct could be materially impaired. Our business depends on oil and natural gas transportation facilities that are owned by others. The marketability of our natural gas and oil production depends, in part, on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The lack of available capacity on these systems and related facilities could result in the shut-in of our producing wells or the delay or discontinuation of development plans for our properties. During 2005, we estimate that approximately 10.6 Bcfe of offshore production was curtailed and delayed due damage to third-party pipelines -19- Table of Contents and processing facilities as a result of damage to Gulf of Mexico infrastructure after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita that struck the Texas and Louisiana coasts during August and September of 2005. Although we have some control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and natural gas. Our acquisition and investment activities may be unsuccessful and costly. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires assessment of reserves, future commodity prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. These assessments may not be accurate. Our review of the properties we intend to acquire may not reveal all existing or potential problems nor allow us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We may not always perform inspections on every property or well, and structural or environmental problems may not be observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Accordingly, we may suffer the loss of one or more acquired properties due to title deficiencies or may be required to make significant expenditures to cure environmental contamination or other problems with respect to acquired properties. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and we typically acquire structures on a property on an “as is” basis. Our ability to maximize tax efficiencies with tax free asset exchange transactions following the pending sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets is uncertain. There are numerous uncertainties surrounding our ability to reinvest the proceeds from the pending sale of the Texas portion of our Gulf of Mexico assets and any subsequent sale of the remaining portion of our offshore assets into onshore natural gas and oil assets, including our ability to structure the reinvestment in such a manner and within the required time frame such that it qualifies as a tax-free exchange under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. In the event we are not able to reinvest the proceeds from the pending sale and any subsequent sale within the time period prescribed under Section 1031, we will bear the cost of the resulting tax liability, which could be significant. Our investments in the Rocky Mountains may not be successful. Our future growth plans rely in part on establishing significant production and reserves in the Rocky Mountains, particularly the Uinta Basin in Utah and the DJ Basin in Colorado. To date, we lack sufficient production history from these areas to accurately estimate the likelihood that our endeavors will yield meaningful reserves and production with an acceptable rate of return. Certain of our exploration objectives in the Rocky Mountain area involve geology types and mechanical operations that differ substantially from our historic operations in South Texas and the Arkoma Basin. In addition, operations in the Rocky Mountain region present unique operational challenges, such as more acute transportation constraints, higher pricing differentials, and more extensive regulatory oversight. Increased drilling in the vicinity of our Rocky Mountain acreage has also resulted in the Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) increasingly requiring the preparation of environmental assessments or more comprehensive environmental impact statements, as a condition to conducting operations on certain lands that the BLM administers. Any or all of these contingencies could delay or halt our drilling activities or the construction of ancillary facilities necessary for production, which would prevent us from developing our property interests in the Rocky Mountains as planned and impede our growth. We may incur substantial costs to comply with costly and stringent environmental and other governmental laws and regulations. Our exploration and production operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state, and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and natural gas wells. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations, and/or the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting our operations. However, environmental laws and regulations, including those that may at some time arise to address global climate change or facility security concerns, are expected to continue to have an increasingly costly and stringent impact on our operations resulting in substantial costs and liabilities in the future. We currently own and lease, and have in the past owned or leased, numerous properties that have been used for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas for many years. Although we believe we have used operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal. In addition, petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes may have been disposed of or released by prior operators -20- Table of Contents of properties that we have acquired or may acquire in the future as well as by current third party operators of properties in which we have an ownership interest. Properties impacted by any such disposals or releases could be subject to costly and stringent investigatory or remedial requirements under environmental laws, some of which impose strict, joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, including the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, the federal Oil Pollution Act,” the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and analogous state laws. Under such laws and any implementing regulations, we could be required to remediate contaminated properties and take actions to compensate for damages to natural resources. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury or property damages allegedly caused by the release of petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes into the environment. We face strong competition. As an independent natural gas and oil producer, we face strong competition in all aspects of our business. Competition is particularly intense for prospective undeveloped leases and purchases of proved oil and gas reserves. There is also competition for the rigs and related equipment and services that are necessary for us to develop and operate our natural gas and oil properties. Our competitive position is also highly dependent on our ability to recruit and retain geological, geophysical and engineering expertise. We compete for prospects, proved reserves, field services and qualified oil and gas professionals with major and diversified energy companies and other independent operators that have financial, human and technological resources greater than ours. These companies may be able to pay more for productive natural gas and oil properties and exploratory prospects and to more successfully define, evaluate, bid for and purchase properties and prospects than our financial and human resources permit. In addition, our competitors may have an advantage due to their geographic focus and their mix of oil and natural gas reserves. The inability of one or more of our customers to meet its obligations may adversely affect our financial results. Substantially all of our accounts receivable result from natural gas and oil sales or joint interest billings to third parties in the energy industry. This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may impact our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. Provisions in our Charter, Agreements, Stockholder Rights Plan and Delaware Law May Inhibit a Takeover of Houston Exploration. Under our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue shares of our common or preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. Issuance of these shares could make it more difficult to acquire our company without the approval of our Board of Directors as more shares would have to be acquired to gain control. We also have a stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” that entitles our stockholders to acquire additional shares of our company, or a potential acquirer of our company, at a substantial discount from market value in the event of an attempted takeover without the approval of our Board. In 2005, we amended our rights plan to increase the ownership triggering threshold from 10% to 15%. The indenture governing our 7% senior subordinated notes due 2013 also contains change of control provisions that, among other things, allow the holders of the notes to require us to repurchase them at 101% of their principal amount, and a change of control constitutes a default under our revolving bank credit facility. Finally, Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and a holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock under certain circumstances. These provisions may deter hostile takeover attempts that could result in an acquisition of us that would have been financially beneficial to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 