Item 1A. Risk Factors There may be events in the future that we are not able to accurately predict or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed below, as well as any cautionary language in this report, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. If we were liquidated, our common stockholders could lose part or all of their investment. In the event of our dissolution, the proceeds (if any) realized from the liquidation of our assets will be distributed to our stockholders only after satisfaction of claims of our creditors and preferred stockholders. The ability of a purchaser of shares to recover all or any portion of the purchase price for the shares in that event will depend on the amount of funds realized and the claims to be satisfied by those funds. We are delinquent or in arrears on significant current liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, we are delinquent on the payment of several current liabilities including accounts payable of approximately $79,900 and accrued interest payable of approximately $16,500. In the absence of payment arrangements, creditors could individually or collectively demand immediate payment and jeopardize our ability to fund operations and correspondingly damage our business. We may have unasserted liabilities for environmental reclamation. Our research, development, manufacturing and production processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, and we are subject to various environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and some waste products. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any liability could exceed our financial resources. We also have one ongoing environmental reclamation and remediation projects at our current production facility in Montana. Adequate financial resources may not be available to ultimately finish the reclamation activities if changes in environmental laws and regulations occur; and these changes could adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. We do not have environmental liability insurance now; and we do not expect to be able to obtain insurance at a reasonable cost. If we incur liability for environmental damages while we are uninsured, it could have a harmful effect on our financial condition and us. The range of reasonably possible losses from our exposure to environmental liabilities in excess of amounts accrued to date cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. - 8 - We have accruals for environmental obligations. We have accruals totaling $107,500 on our balance sheet at December 31, 2010, for our environmental reclamation responsibilities. If we are not able to adequately perform our reclamation activities on a timely basis, we could be subject to fines and penalties from regulatory agencies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable to a Smaller Reporting Company. 