ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Some of the information in this Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “continue” and similar words. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they: (1) discuss our future expectations; (2) contain projections of our future operating results or financial condition; or (3) state other “forward-looking” information. However, we may not be able to predict future events accurately. The risk factors listed in this section, as well as any cautionary language in this Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K could materially and adversely affect our business. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Our Quarterly Results are Unpredictable and May Fluctuate Significantly Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to the unpredictably of our revenue components. It is difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of product revenues. Product revenues consist of sales of test and diagnostics hardware as well as biometrics, medical imaging and test and diagnostics software. Sales of hardware and software products fluctuate based upon demand by our customers which is difficult to predict. Since our product revenues include the sales of hardware products which typically have lower gross margins than our other sources of revenue, product gross margins and overall profitability are also difficult to predict. Contract revenues are also unpredictable. Making accurate predictions of contract revenues from new customers is difficult. The contract negotiation process can be lengthy and the fiscal period in which a new agreement will be entered into, if at all, and the financial terms of such an agreement are difficult to predict. Making accurate predictions of contract revenues from existing customers is also difficult, because such revenues are affected by the level of cooperation we receive from customers; the level of engineering services desired by customers; and the potential of contract termination once a project starts. In addition, customers may not pay us as anticipated under our contracts. It is also difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of royalty revenues. Royalties are typically recognized in the quarter when we receive a report from a customer detailing sales and royalties due from the prior quarter, such as from the shipment of licensed integrated circuits. Royalties depend upon customer revenues which can be affected by factors beyond our ability to control or assess in advance. These factors include our customers’ ability to generate sales and fluctuating sales volumes and prices of products containing our technology. Our business is subject to a variety of additional risks, which could materially adversely affect quarterly and annual operating results, including: · market acceptance of broadband technologies we supply by semiconductor or equipment companies; · the extent and timing of new transactions with customers; · changes in our and our customers’ development schedules and levels of expenditure on research and development; · the loss of a strategic relationship or termination of a project by a customer; · equipment companies' acceptance of integrated circuits produced by our customers; · the loss by a customer of a strategic relationship with an equipment company customer; · announcements or introductions of new technologies or products by us or our competitors; · delays or problems in the introduction or performance of enhancements or of future generations of our technology; · failures or problems in our hardware or software products; · price pressure in the biometrics or test and diagnostics markets from our competitors; · delays in the adoption of new industry standards or changes in market perception of the value of new or existing standards; · competitive pressures resulting in lower contract revenues or royalty rates; · competitive pressures resulting in lower software or hardware product revenues; 12 · personnel changes, particularly those involving engineering, technical, sales and marketing personnel; · costs associated with protecting our intellectual property; · the potential that customers could fail to make payments under their current contracts; · ADSL or VDSL market-related issues, including lower ADSL or VDSL chipset unit demand brought on by excess channel inventory and lower average selling prices for ADSL or VDSL chipsets as a result of market surpluses; · hardware manufacturing issues, including yield problems in our hardware platforms, and inventory buildup and obsolescence; · product gross margin may be affected by various factors including, but not limited to, product mix, product life cycle, and provision for excess and obsolete inventory; · significant fluctuations in demand for our hardware products; · new laws, changes to existing laws, or regulatory developments; and · general economic trends and other factors. As a result of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our revenue levels and operating results are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on our quarterly revenue and operating results to predict our future performance. We Experienced Net Losses We had a net annual loss during 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, and 2005. We may experience losses in the future if: · the test and diagnostics, semiconductor, telecommunications or biometrics markets decline; · new and/or existing customers do not choose to use our software or hardware products; · new and/or existing customers do not choose to license and/or buy our patents; or · new and/or existing customers do not choose to license our silicon IP for new chipset products or do not maintain or increase their revenues from sales of chipsets with our technology. Our DSL Licensing and DSL Test and Diagnostic Businesses Depend Upon a Limited Number of Customers, Therefore We Derive a Significant Amount of Revenue from a Small Number of Customers There are a relatively limited number of companies to which we can sell our DSL technology and a limited number of OEM suppliers to which we can sell our DSL test and diagnostic products in a manner consistent with our business model. If we fail to maintain relationships with our current customers or fail to establish a sufficient number of new customer relationships, our business could be seriously harmed. In the recent past, three of our DSL silicon IP customers decided to exit the DSL chipset business, and therefore we do not expect to generate additional revenue from these customers. In addition, our current and prospective customers may use their superior size and bargaining power to demand terms that are unfavorable to us. Due to the limited number of customers to which we can license and/or sell our DSL technology and patents and our DSL hardware and software products, we derive a significant amount of revenue from a small number of customers. In 2008, we derived approximately 28% and 12% of our total revenue from Daphimo and Infineon, respectively. In 2007, we derived approximately 19%, 16%, and 10% of our total revenue from Infineon, Spirent, and Alcatel, respectively. In 2006, we derived approximately 26% and 20% of our total revenue from Infineon and ADI/Ikanos, respectively. On February 17, 2006 ADI sold its ADSL business relating to Aware technology to Ikanos and Ikanos replaced ADI as an Aware customer. Our Business is Subject to Rapid Technological Change The semiconductor and telecommunications industries for high-speed network access technologies are characterized by rapid technological change. The biometrics industry is also subject to rapid technological change and uncertainty. In these industries, new generations of products are introduced regularly and evolutionary improvements to existing products are required. Therefore, we face risks that others could introduce competing technology that renders our DSL or biometrics technology and products less desirable or obsolete. Also, the announcement of new technologies could cause our customers or their customers to delay or defer entering into arrangements for the use of our existing technology. Either of these events could seriously harm our business. 13 We expect that our business will depend to a significant extent on our ability to introduce new generations of communications and biometrics products as well as new technologies and products that keep pace with changes in these industries. We must continually devote significant engineering resources to achieving technical innovations and product developments. These developments are complex and require long development cycles. Moreover, we may have to make substantial investments in technological innovations and product developments before we can determine their commercial viability. We may lack sufficient financial resources to fund future development. Also, our customers may decide not to share certain research and development costs with us. Revenue from technological innovations, even if successfully developed, may not be sufficient to recoup the costs of development. One element of our business strategy is to assume the risks of technology development failure while reducing such risks for our customers. In the past, we have spent significant amounts on development projects that did not produce any marketable technologies or products, and we cannot assure you that it will not occur again. We Face Intense Competition from a Wide Range of Competitors Our ability to generate revenues from our DSL technology depends largely on the willingness and ability of semiconductor manufacturers to design, build and sell integrated circuits based on our intellectual property. The DSL semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns and increasing foreign and domestic competition. As a silicon intellectual property supplier to the semiconductor industry, we face competition from internal development teams within potential semiconductor customers. We must convince potential customers to license or buy from us rather than develop technology internally. Furthermore, our semiconductor customers may choose to abandon joint development projects with us or develop chipsets themselves without using our technology. In addition to competition from internal development teams, we may compete against other independent suppliers of intellectual property for DSL. New chipset suppliers have also demonstrated a reluctance to enter the DSL market. The market for DSL chipsets is intensely competitive. Our success as a silicon IP supplier requires that DSL equipment manufacturers buy chipsets from our semiconductor customers, and that telephone companies buy DSL equipment from those equipment manufacturers. Our customers’ chipsets compete with products from other vendors of standards-based DSL chipsets, including Broadcom, Conexant, and TrendChip. The markets for our DSL test and diagnostics hardware and software products are competitive and uncertain. We can give no assurance that phone companies will purchase significant quantities of products to test and maintain their DSL networks, or that if they do they will use our products. Our success as a supplier of hardware and software products for DSL test and diagnostics depends in large part on the willingness and ability of OEM customers to design, build and sell automated test heads, hand-held testers, and DSLAMs that incorporate or work with our products. Our success also depends upon our ability to market and sell to service providers. Our DSL customers and their competitors have significantly greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing and personnel resources than we do. We can give no assurance that our OEM customers will continue to purchase products from us or that we will be able to compete effectively or that competitive pressures will not seriously harm our business. Our DSL licensing and DSL test and diagnostic revenues are dependent upon the success of ADSL and VDSL services. ADSL and VDSL services offered over copper telephone networks also compete with alternative broadband transmission technologies that use other network architectures. Alternative technologies that use other network architectures to provide high-speed data service include cable modems using cable networks, wireless solutions using wireless networks, and optics technology using fiber optic networks. These alternative broadband transmission technologies may be more successful than ADSL or VDSL and we may not be able to participate in the markets involving these alternative technologies. The markets for our biometrics products and services as well as our medical and digital imaging software products are competitive and uncertain. Many of our biometric software competitors have significantly greater financial, technological, marketing and personnel resources than we do. Also, we face intense competition from internal development teams within potential customers. We must convince potential customers to purchase products and services from us rather than develop software or perform services internally. Furthermore, customers, who have already purchased from us, may choose to stop purchasing our software and develop their own software. 14 We may be unable to compete successfully in our DSL licensing, DSL test and diagnostics, and biometrics and imaging businesses, and our competitive position may be adversely affected in the future by one or more of the factors described in this section. Our Intellectual Property is Subject to Limited Protection Because we are a technology provider, our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others is critical to our success. We regard our technology as proprietary. Our patent portfolio includes approximately 42 U.S. patents and 95 foreign patents as well as a number of pending patent applications. We also rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark law and non-disclosure agreements to protect our unpatented intellectual property. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization. As part of our silicon IP agreements, we typically work closely with our customers, who may also be potential competitors, and provide them with proprietary know-how necessary for their development of customized chipsets based on our DSL technology. Although our agreements contain non-disclosure provisions and other terms protecting our proprietary know-how and technology rights, it is possible that, despite these precautions, some of our customers might obtain from us proprietary information that they could use to compete with us in the marketplace. Although we intend to defend our intellectual property as necessary, the steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation. In the future, we may be involved in legal action to enforce our intellectual property rights relating to our patents, copyrights or trade secrets. Any such litigation could be costly and time-consuming for us, even if we were to prevail. Moreover, even if we are successful in protecting our proprietary information, our competitors may independently develop technologies substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. The misappropriation of our technology or the development of competitive technology could seriously harm our business. Our technology, software or hardware may infringe the intellectual property rights of others. A large and increasing number of participants in the telecommunications and compression industries have applied for or obtained patents. Some of these patent holders have demonstrated a readiness to commence litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. Third parties may assert patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. In the past, we have received claims from other companies that our technology infringes their patent rights. Intellectual property rights can be uncertain and can involve complex legal and factual questions. We may infringe the proprietary rights of others, which could result in significant liability for us. If we were found to have infringed any third party’s patents, we could be subject to substantial damages or an injunction preventing us from conducting our business. Our Ability to Obtain or Enforce Patents Could be Affected by New Laws, Regulations or Rules We have an active program to protect our proprietary technology through the filing of patents. We have also pursued the license and/or sale of patents, as part of our silicon IP offerings as well as independently. New laws, regulations or rules implemented either by Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, foreign patent offices, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders could significantly increase our expenses related to patent prosecution or decrease revenues associated with our patents. While we are not aware that any such changes are likely to occur in the foreseeable future, we cannot assure you that such changes will not occur. Our DSL Silicon Intellectual Property Business Model Has Unique Challenges Our success as a licensor of DSL silicon IP depends upon our ability to license our technology to semiconductor or equipment companies, and our customers’ willingness and ability to sell products that incorporate our technology. 15 We face numerous risks in successfully obtaining suitable customers on terms consistent with our business model, including, among others: · we must typically undergo a lengthy and expensive process of building a relationship with a potential customer before there is any assurance of an agreement with such party, and in some instances we must convince a potential customer to enter the DSL market. · we must persuade semiconductor and equipment manufacturers with significant resources to rely on us for critical technology on an ongoing basis rather than trying to develop similar technology internally; · we must persuade potential customers to bear development costs associated with our technology applications and to make the necessary investment to successfully manufacture chipsets and products using our technology; and · we must successfully transfer technical know-how to customers. Moreover, the success of our business model also depends on the receipt of royalties from customers. Royalties from our customers are often based on the selling prices of their chipsets and products, over which we have little or no control. We also have little or no control over our customers’ promotional and marketing efforts. They are not prohibited from competing against us. Our success depends upon our ability to obtain suitable customers, and is threatened if our current customers cancel or put DSL programs utilizing our technology on hold, or if our customers do not successfully market and sell chipsets or products incorporating our technology. There Has Been and May Continue to be a Cyclical Demand for DSL Chipsets, and There is Intense Competition for DSL Chipsets, Which Has Caused Our Royalty Revenue to Decline The royalties we receive are influenced by many of the risks faced by the DSL market in general, including cyclical demand which may result in reduced average selling prices (“ASPs”) for DSL chipsets during periods of surplus. In the past, the DSL industry has experienced an oversupply of DSL chipsets, central office equipment or customer premises equipment. Excessive inventory levels led to soft chipset demand, which in turn led to declining ASPs. ASPs have also been under pressure because of intense competition in the DSL chipset marketplace. As a result of the soft demand and declining ASPs for ADSL chipsets, our royalty revenue has decreased substantially. Price decreases for ADSL or VDSL chipsets, and the corresponding decreases in per unit royalties received by us, can be sudden and dramatic. Pricing pressures may continue during 2009 and beyond. Our royalty revenue may decline over the long term. The Success of Our DSL Licensing Business Requires Acceptance of Our Technology by Equipment Companies The success of our DSL licensing business is dependent on our ability to generate meaningful royalties from our licensing arrangements with customers. Our ability to generate such royalties is materially affected by the willingness of equipment companies to purchase integrated circuits that incorporate our technology. There are other competitive solutions available for equipment companies seeking to offer broadband communications products. We face the risk that equipment manufacturers will choose those alternative solutions. Generally, our ability to influence equipment companies’ decisions whether to purchase integrated circuits that incorporate our technology is limited. We also face the risk that equipment companies that elect to use integrated circuits that incorporate our technology into their products will not compete successfully against other equipment companies. Many factors beyond our control could influence the success or failure of a particular equipment company that uses integrated circuits based on our technology. Even if equipment companies incorporate chipsets based on our intellectual property into their products, their products may not achieve commercial acceptance or result in meaningful royalties to us. The Success of Our DSL Licensing and Test and Diagnostics Products Businesses Requires Telephone Companies to Install DSL Service in Volume The success of our DSL licensing and test and diagnostics products businesses depends upon telephone companies installing DSL service in significant volumes. If telephone companies do not install DSL service in significant volumes, or if telephone companies install broadband service based on other technologies such as cable or fiber-to-the-home, our business will be seriously harmed. 16 Moreover, our DSL licensing and test and diagnostics products businesses depend on capital equipment spending by telephone companies. If telephone companies reduce their budgets for or decide not to install or utilize equipment dedicated to DSL service or test infrastructure, our business will be severely harmed. The Success of Our DSL Test and Diagnostic Products Depends On a Number of Factors Our success in developing, introducing, selling, and supporting new and enhanced test and diagnostic products depends upon a variety of factors, including timely and efficient completion of hardware and software design and development, implementation of manufacturing processes, and effective sales, marketing, and customer service. Because of the complexity of our test and diagnostic products, significant delays may occur between a hardware product's initial introduction and commencement of volume production. If we are unsuccessful in developing, introducing, selling and supporting new and enhanced test and diagnostic products, our DSL test and diagnostic business could be seriously harmed. If Our Test and Diagnostic Hardware and Software Products Have Quality Problems, Our Business Could Be Harmed If our test and diagnostic products have actual or perceived reliability, quality, functionality or other problems, we may suffer reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, inability to recognize revenue, delays in collecting accounts receivable and higher service, support and warranty expenses or inventory write-offs, among other effects. We believe that the acceptance, volume production, timely delivery and customer satisfaction of our test and diagnostic products is important to our future financial results. As a result, any inability to correct any technical, reliability, parts shortages or other difficulties or to manufacture and ship our test and diagnostic products on a timely basis meeting customer requirements could damage our relationships and reputation with current and prospective customers, which would harm our revenues and operating results. Any product problems that may require repair or replacement may adversely affect our customer and/or vendor relationships and have an impact on support costs, warranty reserves, or inventory reserves, among other effects. 17 We are Dependent On a Single Source Contract Manufacturer for the Manufacture of Our DSL Hardware Products, the Loss of Which Would Harm Our Business We currently depend on one contract manufacturer to manufacture our DSL hardware products. If this company was to terminate its arrangement with us or fail to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we would be unable to manufacture our products until replacement contract manufacturing services could be obtained. To qualify a new contract manufacturer, familiarize it with our products, quality standards and other requirements, and commence production is a costly and time-consuming process. We cannot assure you that we would be able to establish alternative manufacturing relationships on acceptable terms. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our contract manufacturer performs to our standards, our reliance on a single source limits our control over quality assurance and delivery schedules. Defects in workmanship, unacceptable yields, and manufacturing disruptions and difficulties may impair our ability to manage inventory and cause delays in shipments and cancellation of orders that may adversely affect our relationships with current and prospective customers. As a result, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. Our Manufacturing Systems May Not Be Adequate For Our DSL Test and Diagnostics Hardware Product Offerings Our current manufacturing systems adequately address hardware products we are currently manufacturing in limited volumes. Our manufacturing systems have not been extensively tested under anticipated, more complex hardware products or in volumes higher than that of our current hardware products. If our manufacturing systems are inadequate or have other problems, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. We are Dependent on Single Source Suppliers for Components in Our DSL Hardware Products We rely on single source suppliers for components and materials used in our DSL hardware products. Our dependence on single source suppliers involves several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules. Any delays in delivery of such components or shortages of such components could cause delays in the shipment of our products, which could significantly harm our business. Because of our reliance on these vendors, we may also be subject to increases in component costs. These increases could significantly harm our business. If any one or more of our single source suppliers cease to provide us with sufficient quantities of our components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, we would have to seek alternative sources of supply. We could incur delays while we locate and engage alternative qualified suppliers and we might be unable to engage alternative suppliers on favorable terms. We could incur substantial hardware and software redesign costs if we are required to replace the components. Any such disruption or increased expenses could harm our commercialization efforts and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Biometrics Software Business Risks Our biometrics software business is subject to a variety of additional risks, which could materially adversely affect quarterly and annual revenue and operating results, including: — market acceptance of our biometric technologies and products; — changes in contracting practices of government or law enforcement agencies; — the failure of the biometrics market to experience continued growth; — announcements or introductions of new technologies or products by our competitors; — delays or problems in the introduction or performance of enhancements or of future generations of our technology; — failures or problems in our biometric software products; — the risk that current or potential customers might decide to develop their own software rather than buy it from us; — delays in the adoption of new industry biometric standards or changes in market perception of the value of new or existing standards; — growth of proprietary biometric systems which do not conform to industry standards; — competitive pressures resulting in lower software product revenues; — personnel changes, particularly those involving engineering, technical and sales and marketing personnel; — costs associated with protecting our intellectual property; — litigation by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights; — the potential that customers could fail to make payments under their current contracts; — new laws, changes to existing laws, or regulatory developments; and — general economic trends and other factors. Biometrics Services Business Risks We began to perform engineering services under biometric technology contracts in the fourth quarter of 2007. Over the last several quarters, our biometrics services business has contributed a more meaningful portion of contract revenue. This business is subject to additional risks, which could materially adversely affect quarterly and annual revenue and operating results, including: — our ability to structure and price technology contracts in a manner that is consistent with our business model; — our ability to deliver contract milestones: i) in a timely and cost efficient manner, and ii) in a form and condition acceptable to customers; — the risk that customers could terminate projects; — the risk that we rely substantially on third party contractors and consultants to deliver certain contract milestones; and — the potential that customers could fail to make payments under their contracts. 18 Current economic conditions, including the credit crisis affecting the financial markets and the possibility of a global recession, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The world’s financial markets are currently experiencing turmoil, characterized by reductions in available credit, increased costs of credit, volatility in security prices, rating downgrades of investments and reduced valuations of securities generally. These events have materially and adversely impacted the availability of financing to a wide variety of businesses, and the resulting uncertainty has led to reductions in capital investments, overall spending levels, future product plans, and sales projections across industries and markets. These trends could have a material adverse impact on our business, our ability to achieve targeted results of operations and our financial condition as a result of: · reduced demand for our products or our customers’ products that incorporate our technology; · increased risk of order cancellations or delays; · increased risk that customers may delay or terminate projects; · increased pressure on the prices for our products or our customers’ products that incorporate our technology; · greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; and · risks to our liquidity, including the possibility that we might not have access to our cash when needed. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, but the longer the duration the greater the risks we face in operating our business. We Must Make Judgments in the Process of Preparing Our Financial Statements We prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and certain critical accounting polices that are relevant to our business. The application of these principles and policies requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. In the event that judgments and estimates we make are incorrect, we may have to change them, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Moreover, accounting standards have been subject to rapid change and evolving interpretations by accounting standards setting organizations over the past few years. The implementation of new standards requires us to interpret and apply them appropriately. If our current interpretations or applications are later found to be incorrect, our financial position and results of operations could be materially affected. If We are Unable to Maintain Effective Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting, Investors Could Lose Confidence In The Reliability of Our Financial Statements, Which Could Result In a Decline in the Price of Our Common Stock As a public company, we are required to enhance and test our financial, internal and management control systems to meet obligations imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC, management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and the audit opinion of our independent registered accounting firm as to the effectiveness of our controls is required in connection with our filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are unable to timely identify, implement and conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or if our independent auditors are unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may also uncover weaknesses or other issues with these controls that could also result in adverse investor reaction. Our Stock Price May Be Extremely Volatile Volatility in our stock price may negatively affect the price you may receive for your shares of common stock and increases the risk that we could be the subject of costly securities litigation. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially and could continue to fluctuate based on a variety of factors, including: · quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in future financial guidance that we may provide to investors and public market analysts; · changes in our relationships with our customers; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our customers or our competitors; 19 · changes in DSL or biometrics market growth rates as well as investor perceptions regarding the investment opportunity that companies participating in the DSL or biometrics industry afford them; · changes in earnings estimates by public market analysts; · key personnel losses; · sales of our common stock; · our stock repurchase activities; and · developments or announcements with respect to industry standards, patents or proprietary rights. In addition, the equity markets have experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many high technology companies and that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Business May Be Affected by Government Regulations The extensive regulation of the telecommunications industry by federal, state and foreign regulatory agencies, including the Federal Communications Commission, and various state public utility and service commissions, could affect us through the effects of such regulation on our customers and their customers. In addition, our business may also be affected by the imposition of certain tariffs, duties and other import restrictions on components that our customers obtain from non-domestic suppliers or by the imposition of export restrictions on products sold internationally and incorporating our technology. Changes in current or future laws or regulations, in the United States or elsewhere, could seriously harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 20 ITEM 