RISK FACTORS RISK OF LAUNCH AND IN-ORBIT FAILURE, LOSS, REDUCED PERFORMANCE AND SATELLITE DEFECTS Satellites are subject to significant risks, including launch and in-orbit failure, satellite defects, destruction and damage that may result in total or partial loss or incorrect orbital placement or may prevent proper commercial operation. The failure rate varies by launch vehicle, launch services provider and satellite manufacturer. A total or constructive total loss of any of our satellites would adversely affect the Company. In addition, any defects in 4 AsiaSat 2, AsiaSat 3S or AsiaSat 4 may also adversely affect the Company. See "Information on the Company -- Satellites -- AsiaSat 2." RISKS IN RELATION TO THE CONSTRUCTION AND LAUNCH OF ASIASAT 5 AsiaSat has entered into a construction contract and a launch contract for the commissioning of AsiaSat 5. The Company plans to launch AsiaSat 5 in 2008. AsiaSat 5 will replace AsiaSat 2, which is tentatively scheduled to retire in 2010. The Company has planned for the launch of AsiaSat 5 in 2008 so as to allow sufficient time for the construction and launch of another satellite in the event of an unsuccessful launch of AsiaSat 5. The total consideration under the construction contract and launch contract, together with insurance cost, is estimated at approximately HK$1,404.0 million (US$180.0 million). The construction contractor, Space Systems/Loral, Inc., is a subsidiary of Loral Space & Communications Inc., which emerged from chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy laws of the United States in November 2005. The predecessor of Loral Space & Communications Inc. filed voluntary petitions for reorganization in July 2003 together with some of its subsidiaries, including Space Systems/Loral Inc. Space Systems/Loral, Inc. emerged from the reorganization debt-free. However, any future financial difficulties of Space Systems/Loral, Inc. may adversely affect its performance under the construction contract and may adversely affect the quality or delay the launch of AsiaSat 5. In addition, there can be no assurance that the launch of AsiaSat 5, including the subsequent in-orbit testing, will be successful. In the event AsiaSat 5 does not meet specifications, there are limited opportunities for the Company to replace AsiaSat 5 and the failure to timely replace AsiaSat 5 may result in interruption of services to our customers and adversely affect the operation and financial results of the Company. Furthermore, a significant portion of the total cost of the construction and launch of a satellite is the cost of insurance, which generally will not be obtained until several months prior to a scheduled launch. There can be no assurance that sufficient insurance can be obtained at a reasonable price prior to the launch of AsiaSat 5. RISK OF NOT SUCCESSFULLY RENEWING EXISTING TRANSPONDER CAPACITY AGREEMENTS OR NOT RENEWING THEM ON TERMS SIMILAR TO THEIR CURRENT TERMS The Company's existing transponder capacity agreements, also known as transponder utilization agreements, have scheduled termination dates. If the Company is unsuccessful in obtaining their renewal on similar commercial terms, including price levels, and for similar duration, or in identifying alternate users for returned capacity, the Company's revenues will be adversely affected. LIMITED LIFE OF SATELLITES A number of factors affect the estimated useful life of a satellite, including the quality of their construction, the durability of their component parts, the amount of fuel on-board, the launch vehicle used and the skill with which the satellite is monitored and operated. There can be no assurance as to the specific longevity of AsiaSat 2, AsiaSat 3S or AsiaSat 4. The Company's results of operations would be adversely affected in the event the useful life of AsiaSat 2, AsiaSat 3S or AsiaSat 4 were significantly shorter than the estimates stated in "Information on the Company -- Satellites." See "Information on the Company -- Insurance." 5 RISK OF LOSING SATELLITE SERVICE REVENUES IF OTHER SATELLITES OR SIGNALS INTERFERE WITH THE COMPANY'S TRANSMISSIONS Satellites operating from orbital slots that are adjacent to, and using the same band of frequencies as, the Company's satellites could interfere with the transmissions made by its satellites. Such interference could lead to the loss of satellite service revenues if customers migrate to competitors who operate satellites without such interference. The Company has entered into frequency coordination agreements with certain other operators to avoid any material interference and pursuant to which the Company has agreed to certain operating constraints. The Company's ability to use its orbital slots could be further constrained in order to avoid material interference with other satellites and the Company could enter into disputes over interference in the future. In addition, unintentional or intentional signals could interfere with the transmissions of the Company's customers and could severely damage the reputation of the Company. If not remedied, such signals could lead to a loss of satellite service revenues if customers migrate to competitors. See "Information on the Company -- Additional Orbital Slots and Use of Frequencies" and "Information on the Company - Satellites - AsiaSat 3S." RISK OF LOSS OR DAMAGE TO SATELLITES, GROUND BASED SATELLITE CONTROL EQUIPMENT OR SATELLITE STATIONS FROM ACTS OF WAR, TERRORISM, ELECTROSTATIC STORM, SPACE DEBRIS AND OTHER NATURAL DISASTERS The loss, damage or destruction of AsiaSat 2, AsiaSat 3S or AsiaSat 4, or damage or destruction to AsiaSat's ground based satellite control equipment and satellite stations, as a result of military actions or acts of war, terrorism, anti-satellite devices, electrostatic storm, collision with space debris, other natural disasters or other causes would have an adverse effect on the Company. AsiaSat's insurance policies include standard commercial satellite insurance provisions and customary exclusions from losses resulting from (i) military or similar actions, (ii) terrorism, (iii) laser, directed energy or nuclear anti-satellite devices, (iv) insurrection and similar acts or governmental action to prevent such acts, (v) governmental confiscation, (vi) nuclear reaction or radiation contamination or (vii) willful or intentional acts of AsiaSat or its contractors. See "Information on the Company -- Insurance." RELIANCE UPON SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMER The Company's largest customer is STAR Group Limited ("STAR"), which is a Hong Kong-based international satellite television broadcasting company that broadcasts over the greater Asian region and is wholly-owned by News Corporation, a leading international media group. STAR accounted for approximately 24.9%, 22.4% and 25.7% of AsiaSat's revenues in the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. See "Information on the Company - - Services and Customers." The Company could be adversely affected by the loss of STAR as a customer or if STAR failed to perform its obligations in accordance with the terms of its transponder utilization agreements. There can be no assurance that STAR will enter into additional transponder utilization agreements with the Company upon the expiration of existing transponder utilization agreements. 6 RISK OF TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES Technology in the satellite broadcasting and telecommunications industry is in a rapid and continuing state of change. Technological developments may have an adverse impact on the Company. First, because the Company's satellites have an estimated useful life of approximately 15 years, the technology used in the Company's satellites may not be the most advanced at some future date. As a consequence, customers could migrate to satellite operators offering new generations of competing satellite systems that incorporate more advanced technologies, or more suitable satellite capabilities or configurations, after the expiration of the Company's initial contract term, which would result in a loss of revenues. In addition, the Company might be required to replace satellites earlier than expected to address these developments. Second, increased transponder efficiency resulting from advances in compression technology, if not offset by increased applications for satellite capacity, may cause an overall decrease in demand for such capacity. RISK OF LIMITED MARKET DEMAND AND INCREASING COMPETITION The business in which the Company operates is highly competitive. The satellite services provided by the Company are used by its customers for point to multipoint communication (principally television broadcasting, private communication networks, Internet and multimedia services). The Company's principal competitors are regional and domestic satellite companies operating in the Asian region. Many of these competitors have long-standing customer relationships and are substantially larger, and have financial resources that are substantially greater, than those of the Company. See "Information on the Company - Competition." TRANSPONDER OVERSUPPLY. It is expected that in 2006 the supply of transponders continues to exceed the demand for transponders. The Company believes that this imbalance cannot be corrected until global economic growth and new applications and services increase demand for the existing capacity. See "Information on the Company - Competition - Transponder Oversupply." COMPETING SYSTEMS AND SATELLITES. AsiaSat competes with a number of regional and domestic satellites and satellite systems such as APSTAR, Chinasat, Indosat, INSAT, Intelsat, JSAT, Koreasat, MEASAT, New Skies Satellites, PanAmSat, Singtel Optus, SINOSAT, Superbird, Thaicom and others. The Company believes that most of the domestic systems are planning to add at least some regional transponders to their next generation of satellites. The increased competition could adversely affect the Company's business prospects. See "Information on the Company - Competition - Competition Restriction from Domestic Systems." 7 FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS. Fiber optic systems have been widely installed within the region for point to point trans-oceanic communications. In addition, point to point fiber optic connections between major cities in Asia are common. As fiber optic coverage increases, the competitiveness of satellites for point to point communication will diminish. In addition, the transmission of television programming via Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line ("ADSL") and Digital Subscriber Line ("DSL") technologies, commonly known as Internet Protocol Television, is also an alternative for transmission of television programming via direct broadcasting satellite and cable. RISKS RELATING TO FUTURE SATELLITES The construction, launch and operation of AsiaSat 5 and any future satellites by the Company would be subject to substantially the same risks as those set forth herein relating to AsiaSat 2, AsiaSat 3S and AsiaSat 4. In addition, AsiaSat's ability to make capital expenditures in connection with the construction and launch of future satellites could be subject to conditions of future financing arrangements. See "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects -- Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Planned Capital Expenditures." THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO REGULATION BY A NUMBER OF DIFFERENT BODIES The business in which the Company operates is highly regulated. Satellite, broadcasting and telecommunications services are subject to international and national law. HONG KONG. As an operator of privately owned satellites, AsiaSat is subject to the regulatory authority of the Office of the Telecommunications Authority of Hong Kong ("OFTA"), which in turn is subject to the control and supervision of the People's Republic of China ("China"). The business prospects of the Company could be adversely affected by the adoption of new laws, policies or regulations, or changes in the administration, interpretation or application of existing laws, policies and regulations that modify the present regulatory environment in Hong Kong. Licenses granted to AsiaSat are subject to conditions specified therein. The conditions may include basic orbital parameters (and requirements to obtain advance approval for any intended deviations and to notify any unintentional deviation), requirements to avoid interference with the activities of other users of outer space and requirements not to cause actions which may give rise to liabilities on the part of China or Hong Kong. Breach of any such conditions can give rise to a right of revocation of the relevant license. The Company's operation of earth stations is subject to the Telecommunications Ordinance (Chapter 106 of the Laws of Hong Kong) (the "Telecommunications Ordinance"). The Telecommunications Ordinance contains provisions for the taking of possession by the Hong Kong Government of telecommunications stations if the Chief Executive in Council is of the opinion that an emergency has arisen in which it is expedient for the public service that the Hong Kong Government should have control over telecommunications stations. See "Information on the Company - Regulation - Hong Kong Regulation." The Company has been advised by OFTA that it is considering reassigning part of the satellite C-band (specifically 3400 to 3600 MHz) for Broadband Wireless Access (BWA) applications. Although the Company does not use this part of the band the Company believes, based on analysis and limited testing, that broad deployment of BWA transmitters in Hong Kong will disrupt or interfere with all conventional (3700 to 4200 MHz) and extended C band 8 (3400 to 3700 MHz) satellite services in Hong Kong. The Company, other satellite operators and users have raised objections to this allocation by OFTA, but there can be no assurance that this objection will be successful. The Company cannot be certain that in the event that such frequency band is reassigned, techniques that may potentially be applied to mitigate any such disruption or interference will be successful. This proposal by OFTA is part of a worldwide trend to assign more frequency spectrum to mobile and nomadic communications services users. Should this trend continue C band satellite services will be disadvantaged, particularly in urban areas within the Company's regional coverage. OTHER NATIONAL REGULATORY SCHEMES. The customers of the Company are subject to the regulatory authority in the countries in which they operate. Many of the Company's customers must have authorization from the countries in which such customers are located in order to uplink to and communicate by means of the Company's satellites. Although the Company does not believe these regulatory schemes will prevent the Company from pursuing its business, there can be no assurance that such licenses and approvals are or will remain sufficient in the view of national regulatory authorities and that these authorities will not discourage or prevent potential customers from utilizing transponders on the Company's satellites. The laws of certain countries require television broadcasters and satellite telecommunication users providing services in such countries generally to use state-owned or locally-owned satellites. Punitive withholding taxes are often applicable to payments made under non-domestic satellite contracts. These legal requirements prevent the Company and other satellite companies from competing to provide transponder capacity to these potential customers. There can be no assurance that other countries in the Asian region, including countries in which the Company already has customers, will not impose similar requirements to use state-owned or locally-owned satellites in the future. The imposition of such requirements could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. See "Information on the Company - Competition." The Company could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations, relating to taxation or licensing fees in countries that may assert jurisdiction over the Company's activities, including countries where customers of the Company are located or where signals transmitted by the Company's satellites are received. See "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Taxation." INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION UNION. AsiaSat's use of orbital slots and radio frequency is subject to the regulations of the International Telecommunication Union ("ITU"). Nations are required by treaty to make a filing of their proposed use of satellite orbital slots for geostationary satellites with the Radiocommunication Bureau of the ITU. When a conflict or potential conflict is noted, nations are obligated to negotiate in an effort to coordinate the proposed uses and resolve any interference concerns. The Radiocommunication Bureau, however, has no formal dispute resolution mechanism, and if nations cannot agree on a resolution, a satellite system will not be entitled to the full interference protection afforded under international law. See "Information on the Company - Regulation - International Telecommunication Union." 9 FAILURE TO ACHIEVE AND MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY The United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company's internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent auditor may still decline to attest to our management's assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Furthermore, during the course of the evaluation, documentation and attestation, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remedy in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls, on an ongoing basis, over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our shares and ADSs. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. POLITICAL, ECONOMIC AND OTHER REGIONAL RISKS AsiaSat is a Hong Kong company. Substantially all of AsiaSat's revenues are derived from its operations conducted in the Asian region. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, approximately 59.8%, 51.8% and 61.9%, respectively, of AsiaSat's revenues, were derived from customers from Greater China, which includes mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. Furthermore, during 2003, 2004 and 2005, approximately, 24.9%, 22.4% and 25.7%, respectively, of AsiaSat's revenues were attributable to transponder utilization agreements with STAR, a Hong Kong company. As a result, the Company's financial condition and results of operations may be influenced by the political situation in the Asian region and by the general state of the economies in such region. CHINA. General economic conditions in China could have a significant impact on the financial prospects of the Company. The economy of China has been changing dramatically with a gradual reduction in the role of state economic plans in the allocation of resources, pricing and management of assets and an increased reliance on market forces. Any slowdown in economic growth or return to non-market policies could adversely affect business in China. 10 The Company may also be adversely affected by changes in the political and social conditions in China, and by changes in laws, regulations and governmental policies, with respect to broadcast media, telecommunications services, inflationary measures, currency conversion or the rates and methods of taxation, among other things. While the Chinese government is expected to continue its economic reform policies, many of the reforms are new or experimental and may be refined or changed. Almost all payments under AsiaSat's transponder utilization agreements are made in US Dollars. Since China has extensive foreign exchange controls, the ability of Chinese companies to convert Renminbi (the currency of China) into foreign currency and to purchase foreign currency is subject to various Chinese laws and regulations. China's current or future foreign exchange controls could adversely affect the ability of the Company's customers in China to make payments to the Company in US Dollars. HONG KONG. From July 1, 1997, Hong Kong ceased to be a Crown Colony of the United Kingdom, and became a Special Administrative Region of China. Although the Basic Law, which governs China's relationship with Hong Kong, provides that Hong Kong will have a high degree of legislative, judicial and economic autonomy, there can be no assurance that the Company's financial condition and results of operations will not be adversely affected as a consequence of the exercise of China's sovereignty over Hong Kong. In addition, political and social developments in China have from time to time adversely affected the Hong Kong economy. SARS, AVIAN FLU OR SIMILAR OCCURRENCE. The Company's business could be adversely affected by the re-emergence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (or SARS) or the development of a possible pandemic such as the avian influenza or a similar type of regional occurrence. Restrictions on travel resulting from these possible events could adversely affect the Company's ability to market and service new and existing customers throughout the Asian region. In addition, sick employees or other employees who fear contracting such illness could decide to not report for duty. The Company's results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent that SARS, avian influenza or a similar type of regional occurrence harms the economy in, or otherwise negatively affects, China or the Asian region generally. LIMITATIONS ON WARRANTIES AND INSURANCE Pursuant to AsiaSat's satellite construction contracts with Boeing Satellite Systems, International, Inc. (formerly known as Hughes Space and Communications International, Inc.) ("Boeing"), Lockheed Martin and Space Systems/Loral Inc. with respect to AsiaSat 2, AsiaSat 3S, AsiaSat 4 and AsiaSat 5, AsiaSat is the beneficiary of certain limited performance-based, operational warranties on its satellites. However, the limited contractual warranties do not cover a substantial portion of the risk inherent in satellite launches or satellite operations. Furthermore, there has been a general rise in the cost of insurance following a series of satellite failures. In addition, while the cost of insurance has increased, insurance coverage has decreased as a result of the increase in satellite in-orbit failures and the terrorist events on and after September 11, 2001. AsiaSat has in-orbit insurance coverage for AsiaSat 3S and AsiaSat 4 and plans to obtain such coverage for AsiaSat 5. AsiaSat's in-orbit insurance must be renewed annually. AsiaSat 2 is no longer insured for in-orbit failures. See "Key Information - Satellites - AsiaSat 2". 11 There are circumstances in which AsiaSat's insurance will not fully reimburse AsiaSat for its expenditures with respect to launching a replacement satellite (for example, if the cost of replacement exceeds the sum insured), and the insurance will not compensate AsiaSat for business interruption and similar losses (including, among other things, loss of market share, loss of revenue and incidental and consequential damages) which might arise from the failure of a satellite launch and launch of a replacement satellite or a failure of a satellite to perform to specifications. For a description of the amounts and coverage of AsiaSat's launch, in-orbit and liability insurance, see "Information on the Company -- Insurance." RISKS RELATED TO U.S. EXPORT CONTROLS The United States tightly restricts the export of commercial communications satellites and satellite-related components and technology. U.S. export control policy toward Hong Kong and the Company is affected by U.S.-Sino relations, which can vary substantially from time to time. AsiaSat has sourced all its satellites in the United States. There can be no assurance that U.S. policy will not change in ways that will have a negative effect on the export of future satellites, including the timing of such export, nor can there be any assurance that future U.S. sourcing by the Company will be unimpeded by U.S. export restrictions. RISK OF LOSS OF RIGHTS TO ORBITAL SLOTS In addition to the frequency bands currently used in the three primary positions of 100.5 degrees East, 105.5 degrees East, and 122.2 degrees East, in which the Company's satellites currently operate, China has filed requests with the ITU on behalf of AsiaSat for a number of other frequency bands in the same orbit locations and for enhanced operating parameters in the current frequency bands. These filings are at different stages in the application process. There is no assurance that AsiaSat will maintain its right to operate satellites in its primary positions. There is also no assurance that AsiaSat will obtain rights to launch and operate satellites with enhanced parameters or additional frequency bands or that if it does obtain such rights, that it will be able to fully use the allocated frequencies because of the limitations imposed by coordination agreements with other satellite systems. See "Information on the Company - Satellites - Orbital Slots and Use of Frequencies" and "Information on the Company - Satellites - AsiaSat 4." POTENTIAL FUTURE LEVERAGE AsiaSat may incur borrowings under a loan facility in the future. Such a loan facility may contain covenants, including financial covenants, which could prevent the Company from undertaking certain acquisitions and purchases that may be necessary for its growth. See "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Liquidity and Capital Resources." RISK OF NOT BEING ABLE TO HIRE AND RETAIN HIGH TECHNOLOGY EMPLOYEES IN THE SATELLITE INDUSTRY The Company's continued success depends substantially on its ability to hire, retain and motivate highly skilled technology specialists. Because the number of people with such skills is limited, satellite operators compete vigorously for their services. The potential consequences of the Company's loss of, or its inability to attract, key workers could include delays or inability to launch, monitor or control satellites, with a consequent reduction in sales and profits. Alternatively, the Company may have to offer more attractive remuneration 12 packages than its competitors, which would increase the Company's personnel expenses and could reduce its margins. 