ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common shares could decline due to any of these risks or other factors, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Our business depends upon the services of key personnel. Our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and to grow our business depends upon the services of a few key personnel, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business and overall results of operations. The loss of key personnel or damage to their reputations could adversely affect our relationships with our strategic service providers, which would adversely affect our business. 11 We may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to successfully integrate businesses we acquire into our operations. Our growth strategy might include acquiring other businesses. However, we may not be able to identify and acquire targeted businesses or, to the extent required, obtain financing for such acquisitions on satisfactory terms. Integrating acquired businesses into our operations may also involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: • the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating an acquisition, • the diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations, • the difficulty in integrating widely dispersed operations with distinct corporate cultures, • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company, • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technologies successfully, • the potential impairment of relationships with employees, clients and strategic partners, and • the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. Customer satisfaction or performance problems at a single acquired business could adversely affect the reputation of our entire business. Future acquisitions may be financed through the issuance of common shares, which may dilute the ownership of our shareholders, or through the incurrence of indebtedness. Acquisitions may also result in significant charges to earnings. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that competition for acquisition candidates will not escalate, thereby increasing the costs of making acquisitions or making suitable acquisitions more difficult to find. We are subject to the risk that a taxation authority could challenge certain filing positions we have taken, and that a successful challenge could require us to pay significant additional taxes. Although we believe that all filing positions we take in our tax returns are reasonable and appropriate, there is no assurance that a taxation authority will not challenge those positions. Such challenges could include disputing positions taken in connection with the transfer of our online gaming processing business to FireOne Group in 2005, and the subsequent public offering of a portion of the FireOne Group plc ordinary shares. A challenge to certain filing positions we have taken, if successful despite our best efforts to defend our original position, could result in us being required to pay additional taxes (including penalties and interest) and the amount of such additional taxes could be material to us. Our payments businesses are at risk of loss due to fraud, disputes and merchant insolvency. We face risks of loss due to fraud and disputes between consumers and merchants, including the unauthorized use of credit card and bank account information and identity theft, merchant fraud, disputes over the quality of goods and services, breaches of system security, employee fraud and use of our system for illegal or improper purposes. When a consumer pays a merchant for goods or services using a credit card and the cardholder disputes the charge, the amount of the disputed item gets charged back to us and the credit card association may levy fees against us. Chargebacks may arise from the unauthorized use of a cardholder's card number or from a cardholder's claim that a merchant failed to perform. Disputes may also arise when a consumer pays a merchant for goods or services using a check and the financial institution returns the check. In addition, if our chargeback or dispute rate becomes excessive, credit card and check clearing associations may require us to pay fines and have done so in the past. There is a risk that we may be required to pay fines in the future and the amount of such fines may be material. While we attempt to recover from the merchant the amount charged back and the amount of fines imposed upon us by credit card and check clearing associations, we may not always be successful in doing so for various reasons, such as merchant insolvency. 12 We may not be able to safeguard against security and privacy breaches in our electronic transactions. A security or privacy breach could: • expose us to additional liability and to potentially costly litigation; • increase expenses relating to the resolution of these breaches; • deter customers from using our products; and • decrease market acceptance of electronic commerce transactions generally. We cannot assure that the use of applications designed for data security and integrity will address changing technologies or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers. Although we require that our agreements with service providers who have access to merchant and customer data include confidentiality obligations that restrict these parties from using or disclosing any customer or merchant data except as necessary to perform their services under the applicable agreements, there can be no assurance that these contractual measures will prevent the unauthorized disclosure of merchant or customer data. If we are unable to protect the security and privacy of our electronic transactions and data, our business volume and profitability will be materially adversely affected. Our payments systems might be used for illegal or improper purposes. Despite our measures to detect and prevent identity theft, unauthorized uses of credit cards and similar misconduct, our payments systems remain susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. These may include illegal Internet gaming, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, software and other intellectual property piracy, money laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products and online securities fraud. Despite measures that we have taken to detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, we cannot be assured that these measures will succeed. Illegal or improper use of our payments systems may lead to increased government regulation of us or other legal consequences which may have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. We must comply with credit card and check clearing association rules and practices, which could impose additional costs and burdens on our payments businesses. As a registered party, we must comply with the operating rules of various credit card associations and the National Automated Clearing House Association for checks. The associations' members set these rules. The associations could adopt operating rules with which it may be difficult or impossible for us to comply. In addition, cases of fraud or disputes between consumers and merchants can result in chargebacks. If our chargebacks or disputes become excessive, our processing suppliers could fine us or terminate our ability to accept credit cards or checks for payments. The termination of our relationship with credit card or check clearing associations, or acquiring banks, would limit our ability to provide transaction processing services. We may not be able to develop new products that are accepted by our customers. The success of our electronic payments operations depends upon acceptance of our technology. It is possible that we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products and enhancements, or that our new products and enhancements will not be introduced in a timely fashion or will not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. The failure of our systems, the systems of third parties or the Internet could negatively impact our business systems and harm our reputation for reliability. Computer viruses, disgruntled or rogue employees, electronic break-ins, power losses, telecommunications failures, security breaches, natural disasters and similar events could damage or disrupt the function of our systems and those of third parties upon whom we rely, such as bank processing and credit card systems. Our businesses and reputation could be adversely affected if these systems were disabled by any of these occurrences. Our existing or future insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in these systems. 13 Higher transaction volumes may require us to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. We could experience periodic, temporary capacity constraints, which may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times and lower levels of customer service. We may be unable to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our services or to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases in a timely manner. Users of electronic payment services are particularly concerned about the security of transmissions over public networks. Individuals may attempt to circumvent the measures that we take to protect customer transaction data. Security breaches that result in the disclosure of proprietary information, such as bank account or credit card information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss, litigation and possible liability. In order to prepare for certain types of system problems, our payments business segments have developed and are testing formal disaster recovery plans and our hardware services business segment has developed a formal disaster recovery plan, however, there is no assurance that any disaster recovery plan that we might implement will protect us from all possible system failures. Increasing government regulation of Internet commerce could make it more costly or difficult to conduct our businesses. As Internet commerce continues to develop, it may become the subject of increasing government regulation. Much of the current legislation relating to commercial transactions pre-dates and may be incompatible with Internet electronic commerce. Well-established financial institutions and credit card companies may be able to influence the development of regulations that prioritize their interests to our detriment. Regulators may choose to enact or enforce legislation that restricts our operations and other aspects of the electronic commerce market. Moreover, it may take years to determine the extent to which existing laws relating to issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet. Existing legislation in Canada, the United States and abroad regulates communications or commerce specifically. However, the application of such laws in the context of the Internet and electronic commerce is uncertain. Laws and regulations that address issues such as user privacy, pricing, online content regulation, taxation and the characteristics and quality of online products and services are under consideration by federal, provincial, state, local and foreign governments and agencies. In the United States, several telecommunication companies have petitioned the Federal Communications Commission to regulate ISPs and online service providers. The Federal Trade Commission and government agencies in certain states of the United States have been investigating Internet companies’ use of personal information. We could incur additional expenses if new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced affecting the way in which we do business or if these agencies choose to investigate our privacy practices. New laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or applications or interpretations of existing laws, that decrease the growth in the use of the Internet or demand for our electronic commerce services, or that increase the costs associated with providing such services or transmitting data over the Internet could adversely affect our results of operations. If our relationships with our banking partners deteriorated, our ability to process transactions could be impaired or halted. We rely on strategic partnerships and suppliers to help supply, promote and distribute our products and services. We particularly depend upon our strategic banking relationships. The credit card association members and financial institutions that process our electronic transactions have adopted guidelines that apply to these and Internet gaming transactions. While we believe that our operations comply with these guidelines, credit card association members and financial institutions could nonetheless decide in the future to refuse to process transactions for us, or with respect to FireOne Group, to process Internet gaming transactions generally. Such a decision could be implemented with little or no advance notice to us. If such a situation occurred and we were not able to conclude alternative arrangements with other credit card association members or financial institutions, our ability to carry out payment transactions could be impaired or even halted. 14 It may be difficult or costly to enforce our rights with respect to assets held in foreign jurisdictions. Certain of our suppliers’ processing agreements require us to maintain cash reserves with such suppliers. In some instances, these suppliers are located in overseas jurisdictions, including the Caribbean and Europe. If a processing supplier does not release our reserves in accordance with its contractual obligations, we will be required to take legal action within that foreign jurisdiction. Recovering funds held as reserves through legal action in foreign jurisdictions could be costly and difficult and the diversion of resources required to pursue the funds could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our intellectual property rights may be infringed by unauthorized third parties. We rely upon a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure and release of interest in intellectual property agreements and license agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products and technology. The source codes for our products and technology are protected both as trade secrets and as unpublished, unregistered copyrighted works. However, we currently have no patents for our products and technology. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization or to develop similar technology independently. Policing unauthorized use of our products and services is and will continue to be difficult, particularly in light of the global nature of our operations, and the laws of other jurisdictions may offer us little or no effective protection of our intellectual property rights. We rely in part on "on-screen" licenses, which are not manually signed by end-users and, therefore, may be unenforceable under some laws. We may bring litigation proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights; however, such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources. In addition, there is no assurance that our products and services are not within the scope of intellectual property rights held by others, either now or in the future. If a claim is asserted against us by a third party, we may be forced to seek a license from that third party for the use of the applicable intellectual property. Such a license, if required, may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We operate in a competitive market for our products and services. Our potential competitors in our payments businesses include credit card association members, financial institutions, payment processors and other entities, some of which may have greater financial resources than we do, more firmly entrenched market positions or greater brand recognition. These potential competitors may require that their own technology, rather than the technology of third parties such as us, be used in connection with their payment mechanisms. Competition is likely to intensify as our market develops and matures, which could result in downward pressure on our prices, reduce our margins and erode our market share. We may not be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new products or offer new services that appeal to our customers as fast as our competitors will or that will respond effectively to technological changes or product innovations by our competitors. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements or experience significant delays in product developments or roll-outs, we may lose our market share and our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, competition among hardware support service providers, both OEMs and independent service organizations, is intense. We believe that a significant portion of industry hardware maintenance services is currently serviced by OEM service organizations. The remainder of the technology support services market is serviced by a small number of larger, independent companies, such as our Optimal Services business segment, offering a broader range of service capabilities, as well as numerous small companies focusing on narrower areas of expertise or serving limited geographic areas. 15 In many instances, OEM service organizations have greater resources than we do, and, because of their access to the OEM’s engineering data, may be able to respond more quickly to servicing equipment that incorporates new or emerging technologies. OEM service organizations sometimes have a cost and timing advantage over us because we must first develop or acquire from another party the required support items before we can provide services for that equipment. An OEM’s cost advantage, the unavailability of required support items or various proprietary rights of the OEM may preclude us from servicing certain products. We rely upon non-exclusive arrangements with independent sales agents to acquire and retain our customers. In addition to our internal sales and marketing efforts, we rely upon independent sales agents to acquire and retain our customers. Our arrangements with these independent sales agents are non-exclusive. Our sales agents may enter into arrangements with our competitors that provide preferential treatment to our competitors or they may terminate their arrangements with us. If we fail to maintain strong relationships with our independent sales agents or fail to provide our independent sales agents with sufficient incentives to motivate their sales efforts, our customer base may not expand. Our products and services are based on sophisticated technology, which may be negatively affected by technological defects and product development delays. Products and services based on sophisticated technology and computing systems often encounter development delays, and the underlying technology may contain undetected errors or failures when introduced or when the volume of services provided increases. We may experience delays in the development of our products or the technology and computing systems underlying our services, such as our transaction processing services. In addition, despite testing, it is possible that our technology may nevertheless contain errors, and this could delay product launches and innovations and damage our customer relations. If our encryption technology fails to ensure secure electronic commerce transactions, we may become subject to liabilities and our customers may stop using our products and services. A significant element of electronic commerce and communication is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our electronic commerce software uses encryption and authentication technology to effect the secure transmission of confidential information. Although we strive to use only proven applications for premium data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that use of these applications will be sufficient to address changing market conditions or developments in technology or the security and privacy concerns of our existing and potential clients. A security or privacy breach may cause our clients to lose confidence in our services, deter clients from using our services, harm our reputation, expose us to liability, increase our expenses from potential remediation costs and decrease market acceptance and growth of our product offerings. We are subject to exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar. The majority of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars and a significant portion of our expenses is incurred in Canadian dollars. A fluctuation in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar may result in variations in our revenues and earnings. We have not implemented a currency hedging program. Our businesses are subject to fluctuations in general business conditions. General economic conditions have caused some of the merchants we serve to experience difficulty in supporting their current operations and implementing their business plans. If these merchants make fewer sales of their products and services, we will have fewer transactions to process, resulting in lower revenues. In addition, in a recessionary environment, the merchants we serve could be subject to a higher rate of insolvency, which could adversely affect us financially. We bear credit risk for chargebacks related to billing disputes between credit card holders and bankrupt merchants. If a merchant seeks relief under bankruptcy laws or is otherwise unable or unwilling to pay, we may be liable for the full transaction amount of a chargeback. 16 The legal status of Internet gaming is uncertain. Future regulation may make it costly or impossible for us to continue processing transactions for gaming merchants, and reports of regulatory initiatives that are unfavorable to us may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. Due to the relatively recent development of Internet gaming, there are few, if any, laws or regulations that deal directly with payment processing for Internet gaming transactions. The legal status of Internet gaming itself is uncertain. While some jurisdictions have taken the position that Internet gaming is legal and have adopted or are in the process of reviewing legislation to regulate Internet gaming, other jurisdictions have taken the opposite view and enacted legislation to attempt to restrict or prohibit Internet gaming. For example, in the United States there have been conflicting efforts to clarify the legal status of Internet gaming. The impact of those efforts cannot be predicted. To date, no legislation on the subject has successfully passed the U.S. Congress and become law. Should the United States government decide to enact legislation making the funding of Internet gaming activities by U.S. residents unlawful, it may have a significant negative impact on us. From time to time reports about regulatory initiatives that would be unfavorable to our business have had a swift and negative impact on the trading price of our common shares, and our common shares may experience trading price volatility in the future due to such reports. In addition, since we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from processing transactions for Internet gaming, we may be exposed to governmental investigations or lawsuits initiated by the public in jurisdictions where Internet gaming is restricted or prohibited. Any adverse findings or rulings rendered against us in such jurisdictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Any future legal proceedings against us relating to Internet gaming could involve substantial litigation expense, penalties, fines, injunctions or other prohibitions being invoked against us or others and the diversion of the attention of key executives. The outcome of any litigation cannot be predicted. Our status under certain financial services regulations is unclear. We operate in an industry subject to government regulation. We currently are subject to money laundering regulations and might now or in the future be subject to money transmitter or electronic money regulations, in various jurisdictions. If we are found to be in violation of any current or future regulations, we could be exposed to financial liability, including substantial fines which could be imposed on a per transaction basis and disgorgement of our profits; forced to change our business practices; or forced to cease doing business altogether or with the residents of one or more jurisdictions. We bear consumer risk in relation to our guaranteed FirePay wallet offering. We offer our FirePay wallet service to our merchant customers on a guaranteed and a non-guaranteed basis. Merchants have the option of electing to receive funds from consumers (through the FirePay wallet) which are free of any risk of consumer default. There can be no assurance that our risk management process will enable us to price our guaranteed service on terms that are favorable to us. Our failure to price the guaranteed service accurately could have a material adverse effect on our financial results because we guarantee the customer’s payment. Our contracts for our hardware services segment may not be renewed or may be reduced. Consistent with recent trends, we may experience reductions in our contract-based revenue as customers eliminate certain equipment or services from coverage under their contracts. Among the principal reasons for decreases in contract-based revenue are the replacement of the equipment being serviced with new equipment covered under a manufacturer's warranty, elimination of equipment subject to service coverage due to obsolescence or a customer's determination (based on cost, quality and scope of services) to utilize a competitor's services or to move technical support services in-house. There can be no assurance that we will be able to offset or turn around reductions in our contract-based hardware services revenue. We rely upon two customers for a significant portion of our hardware services revenues. Two of our customers accounted for approximately 32% and 25% of our 2005 revenues from our hardware services business, respectively. Any reduction in volume from either of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our hardware services results. 17 Our hardware services business is affected by computer industry trends. Our future success is dependent upon (i) the continuation of a number of trends in the computer industry, including the migration by information technology end-users to multi-vendor and multi-system computing environments, the overall increase in the sophistication and interdependency of computing technology, and a focus by information technology managers on cost efficient management and (ii) our ability to diversify our services to meet the needs of clients with respect to these trends. We believe that these trends have resulted in a movement by both end-users and OEMs towards outsourcing and an increased demand for support service providers that have the ability to provide a broad range of multi-vendor support services. There can be no assurance that these trends will continue in the future. Our hardware services business operates in a market subject to rapid technological change. Rapid technological change and compressed product life cycles are prevalent in the computer industry, which may lead to the development of improved or lower cost technologies, higher quality hardware with significantly reduced failure rates and maintenance needs, or customer decisions to replace rather than continue to repair and maintain aging hardware, which could result in a reduced need for our services in the future. Moreover, such rapid technological changes could adversely affect our ability to predict equipment failure rates and, therefore, to establish prices that provide adequate financial results. Similarly, new computer systems could be built based upon proprietary, as opposed to open, systems that cannot be serviced by us. The per incident revenues in our hardware services business are variable. Per incident revenues, which consist primarily of revenues from services performed for customers on an “as requested” basis (e.g., projects, help desk services, parts repair, installations and moves, installation and de-installation of computer equipment), are subject to monthly variation due to the nature of per incident revenue transactions. It is difficult for us to estimate the impact or amount of future per incident revenues because per incident revenues are dependent on customer demand, which fluctuates based upon various factors such as competition and customers' use of internal employees. We may not be able to generate significant amounts of per incident revenue in the future. Our hardware services business relies on single suppliers for some of our inventory. Spare parts purchases are made from OEMs and other vendors. From time to time, we will have only a single supplier for a particular part, which, in some cases, may be the OEM for such spare part. Should a supplier be unwilling or unable to supply any part or component in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to accurately predict the inventory requirements of our hardware services business. In order to ensure adequate service levels for our customers, we are required to maintain a high volume of spare parts for extended periods of time. A decrease in the demand for our maintenance services or rapid changes in technology could result in a substantial portion of our spare parts becoming excessive, obsolete or otherwise unusable, thereby giving rise to write-offs. We may fail to price fixed fee contracts accurately. Under some of our contracts, the customer pays a fixed fee for customized bundled services that are priced by us based on our best estimates of various factors, including estimated future equipment failure rates, cost of spare parts and labor expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to estimate these factors with sufficient accuracy in order to price these fixed fee contracts on terms favorable to us. Our failure to price these fixed fee contracts accurately could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 18 We may be subject to additional litigation stemming from our operation of the U-scan self-checkout business. In 2004, we settled an action alleging that the U-Scan self-checkout systems that we marketed infringed upon the claimant’s patent. A second party has sent demand letters to us alleging a different patent infringement (see; Item 3 – Legal Proceedings). We may in the future be subject to other litigation relating to our prior involvement in the self-checkout business. Defending against such litigation may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our current businesses, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have nothing to report under this item. 