ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. This report contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this report. Competition May Adversely Affect Our Results The market for same-day delivery and logistics services has been and is expected to remain highly competitive. Competition is often intense, particularly for basic delivery services. High fragmentation and low barriers to entry characterize the industry. We compete with other companies in the industry not only to be providers of services but also for qualified drivers. Some of these companies have longer operating histories and greater financial and other 7 Table of Contents resources than we do. Because of the low cost of entry, companies that do not currently operate delivery and logistics businesses may enter the industry in the future. See “Business — Competition.” An Increase in Claims May Expose Us to Losses As of July 31, 2008, we utilized the services of approximately 4,600 independent contractor owner-operator drivers. From time to time such persons are involved in accidents or other activities that may give rise to liability claims. We currently carry liability insurance with a per-occurrence and an aggregate limit of $30 million. Our independent contractor owner-operators are required to maintain liability insurance of at least the minimum amounts required by applicable state or provincial law (generally such minimum requirements range from $20,000 to $40,000). We also have insurance policies covering property and fiduciary trust liability, which coverage includes all drivers and messengers. We make no assurance that claims against us, whether under the liability insurance or the surety bonds, will not exceed the applicable amount of coverage, that our insurer will be solvent at the time of settlement of an insured claim, or that we will be able to obtain insurance at acceptable levels and costs in the future. If we were to experience a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, liability claims, workers’ compensation claims or unfavorable resolutions of claims, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs could reduce our profitability. We Rely on Independent Contractor Owner-Operator Drivers to Make Deliveries for Our Customers Substantially all of our independent contractor owner-operator drivers at July 31, 2008 were independent contractors who own their own vehicles. We do not pay or withhold any federal, state or provincial employment tax with respect to or on behalf of independent contractors. From time to time, taxing authorities in the U.S. and Canada have sought to assert that independent contractor owner-operators in the transportation industry, including those utilized by us, are employees, rather than independent contractors. We believe that the independent contractor owner-operators utilized by us are not employees under existing interpretations of federal (U.S. and Canadian), state and provincial laws. However, federal (U.S. and Canadian), state, provincial authorities or independent contractors may challenge this position, and other laws or regulations, including tax laws, or interpretations thereof, may be changed. If, as a result of any of the foregoing, we were required to pay withholding taxes and pay for and administer added employee benefits to these drivers, our operating costs would increase. Additionally, if we are required to pay back-up withholding with respect to amounts previously paid to such drivers, we may also be required to pay penalties or be subject to other liabilities. Any of the foregoing circumstances may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations, and/or compel us to restate financial information from prior periods. See “Business — Services” and “— Employees.” We May Be Adversely Affected by Local Delivery Industry and General Economic Conditions Our sales and earnings are especially sensitive to events that affect the delivery services industry including extreme weather conditions, economic factors affecting our significant customers and shortages of or disputes with labor, any of which could result in our inability to service our clients effectively or our inability to profitably manage our operations. In addition, downturns in the level of general economic activity and employment in the U.S. or Canada may negatively impact demand for our services. Fluctuations of Foreign Exchange Rates May Adversely Affect Our Results Slightly more than one-third of our operations are conducted in Canada. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. and Canadian dollar result in fluctuations in the amounts relating to the Canadian operations reported in our consolidated financial statements. The Canadian dollar is the functional currency for the Canadian operations; therefore, any change in the exchange rate will affect our reported sales, expenses and net income for such period. We historically have not entered into hedging transactions with respect to our foreign currency exposure, but may do so in the future. We cannot be assured that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” Failure to Maintain Permits and Licensing May Adversely Affect Our Ability to Operate Although certain aspects of the transportation industry have been significantly deregulated, our delivery 8 Table of Contents operations are still subject to various federal (U.S. and Canadian), state, provincial and local laws, ordinances and regulations that in many instances require certificates, permits and licenses. If we fail to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations we may incur substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct certain of our operations. See “Business — Regulation.” We Depend Upon Key Personnel for Our Continued Operations Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and performance of certain key members of our management. The loss of the services of any of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success and plans for growth also depend on its ability to attract and retain skilled personnel in all areas of our business. There is strong competition for skilled personnel in the same-day delivery and logistics businesses. Technological Advances May Adversely Affect Our Business Technological advances in the nature of facsimile, electronic mail and electronic signature capture have affected the market for on-demand document delivery services. Although we have shifted our focus to the distribution of non-faxable items and logistics services, there can be no assurance that these or other technologies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. We Are Highly Dependent Upon Our Technology Infrastructure We rely heavily on technology to operate our transportation and business networks, and any disruption to our technology infrastructure or the internet could harm our operations and our reputation among our customers. Our ability to attract and retain customers and to compete effectively depends in part upon the sophistication and reliability of our technology network, including our ability to provide features of service that are important to our customers. Any disruption to our computer systems and web site could adversely impact our customer service, our ability to receive orders and respond to prompt delivery assignments and result in increased costs. While we have invested and will continue to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruptions and the resulting adverse effect on our operations and financial results. We Are Dependent on Availability of Qualified Delivery Personnel We are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain, as employees or through independent contractor or other arrangements, qualified delivery personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the needs of our operations. We compete in markets in which unemployment is generally relatively low and the competition for independent contractor owner-operators and other employees is intense. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our pool of available independent contractor owner-operators to keep pace with demands for delivery services. We have no assurance that qualified delivery personnel will continue to be available in sufficient numbers and on terms acceptable to us. Our inability to attract and retain qualified delivery personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Need for Additional Financing to Pursue Our Acquisition Strategy We intend to pursue acquisitions that are complementary to our existing operations, primarily through the acquisition of customer lists of small local delivery companies that can be tucked into our current operating locations. We may be required to incur additional debt, issue additional securities that may potentially result in dilution to current holders and also may result in increased goodwill, intangible assets and amortization expense. We have no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing if necessary, or that such financing can be obtained on terms we will deem acceptable. As a result, we may be unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Factors Beyond Our Control May Affect the Volatility of Our Stock Price Prices for our common stock will be determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, 9 Table of Contents including the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us and general economic and market conditions. Variations in our operating results, general trends in the industry and other factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition, general trends and developments in the industry, government regulation and other factors could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. The stock market has, on occasion, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often particularly affected market prices for smaller companies and that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies, and the price of our common stock could be affected by such fluctuations. Escalating Fuel Costs May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations The independent contractor owner-operators we engage are responsible for all vehicle expense including maintenance, insurance, fuel and all other operating costs. We make every reasonable effort to include fuel cost adjustments in customer billings that we pay to independent contractor owner-operators to offset the impact of fuel price increases. If future fuel cost adjustments are insufficient to offset independent contractor owner-operators’ costs, we may be unable to attract a sufficient number of independent contractor owner-operators that may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 