RISK FACTORS This Form 20-F contains forward looking statements. The statements contained in this Form 20-F that are not purely historical facts are forward looking statements. These statements are based on our current expectations and projections about future events and are identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “scheduled,” “plan,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “aim,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of those terms or other comparable terminology. Because we cannot predict the future these forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us. These forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions, goals, plans, investments or strategies regarding the future and any assumptions that relate to these. Forward looking statements include, among others, statements in (i) “Item 4 – Information on Check Point” regarding our belief as to increased acceptance of Internet technologies, expansion of connectivity services, acceleration of the use of networks, increasing demands on enterprise security systems, the impact of our relationship with our technology partners on our sales goals, the contribution of our products to our future revenue and our development of future products and (ii) “Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” regarding, among other things, future amounts and sources of our revenue, our ongoing relationships with our current and future customers and channel partners, our future costs and expenses, and the adequacy of our capital resources. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and our actual results may differ materially from those predicted. Many of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions are described in the risk factors set forth below in this section and elsewhere in this Form 20-F. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations are reasonable, we may not achieve them. All forward looking statements included in this Form 20-F are based on information available to us on the date of the filing and reasonable assumptions. We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward looking statements after the date of the filing to conform those statements to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by applicable law. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Market If the market for Internet security solutions does not continue to grow our business will be adversely affected. The market for our products has expanded rapidly over the last decade, but the market for Internet security solutions may not continue to grow. Continued growth of this market will depend, in large part, upon: n the continued expansion of Internet usage and the number of organizations adopting or expanding intranets, n the ability of their respective infrastructures to support an increasing number of users and services, and n the continued development of new and improved services for implementation across the Internet and between the Internet and intranets. If the necessary infrastructure or complementary products and services are not developed in a timely manner and, consequently, the enterprise security, Internet and intranet markets fail to grow or grow more slowly than we currently anticipate, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. You can see more details in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point.” 6 We may not be able to successfully compete. The market for Internet security solutions is intensely competitive and we expect that competition will increase in the future. Our principal competitors include Cisco Systems, Inc., F5 Networks, Inc., Internet Security Systems, Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc., McAfee, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, SonicWALL Inc., Symantec Inc. and WatchGuard Technologies Inc. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. As a result, they may be able to adapt better than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. In addition, consolidation in the Internet security market may affect our competitive position. We may not be able to continue competing successfully against our current and future competitors. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which will materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The market for Internet security also includes many niche competitors, generally smaller companies at a relatively early stage of operations, which are focused on specific Internet security needs. These companies’ specialized focus may enable them to adapt better than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements in their specific areas of focus. In addition, some of these companies can invest relatively large resources on very specific technologies or customer segments. Although to date none of these companies has materially affected our business, the cumulative effect of these companies’ activities in the market may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which will materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Vendors of operating system software or networking hardware may enhance their products to include functionality that is currently provided by our products. The widespread inclusion of the functionality of our software as standard features of operating system software or networking hardware could render our products obsolete and unmarketable, particularly if the quality of such functionality were comparable to that of our products. Furthermore, even if the network or application security functionality provided as standard features by operating systems software or networking hardware is more limited than that of our solutions, a significant number of customers may elect to accept more limited functionality in lieu of purchasing additional solutions. If any of the events described above are realized, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. You can see more details in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point.” If we fail to enhance our existing products, develop new and more technologically advanced products or successfully commercialize these products, the results of our operations will suffer. The Internet security industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards in computer hardware and software technology. In particular, the market for Internet and intranet applications is rapidly evolving. As a result, we must continually change and improve our products in response to changes in operating systems, application software, computer and communications hardware, networking software, programming tools and computer language technology. 7 Our future operating results will depend upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis, to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and to keep pace with technological developments, new competitive product offerings and emerging industry standards. Our competitors’ introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing products obsolete or unmarketable. While we have been successful in developing and marketing new products and product enhancements that respond to technological change and evolving industry standards, we may not be able to continue to do so. In addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products. Furthermore, our new products or product enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. In some cases, a new product or product enhancements may negatively affect sales of our existing products. If we do not respond adequately to the need to develop and introduce new products or enhancements of existing products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. You can see more details in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point” and under the caption “We may not be able to successfully compete” in this Item 3. Undetected product defects may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products and technology. Our products are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. They may contain undetected hardware or software errors or defects, especially when new products are first introduced or when new versions are released. In particular, the personal computer hardware environment is characterized by a wide variety of non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. We may need to divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our research and development efforts to address instances of errors or defects. In addition, we may in the future incur costs associated with warranty claims. Our products are used to manage Internet security, which may be critical to organizations. As a result, the sale and support of our products entails the risk of product liability and related claims. We do not know whether, in the future, we will be subject to liability claims or litigation for damages related to product errors, or will experience delays as a result of these errors. Our sales agreements and product licenses typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability or related claims. In selling our products, we rely primarily on “shrink wrap” licenses that are not signed by the end user, and for this and other reasons these licenses may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. As a result, the limitation of liability provisions contained in these licenses may not be effective. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not provide sufficient protection against an asserted claim. If litigation were to arise, it could, regardless of its outcome, result in substantial expense to us, significantly divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and disrupt or otherwise severely impact our relationships with current and potential customers. In addition, if any of our products fails to meet specifications or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in revenues, a loss of existing customers or the inability to attract new customers. Our earnings will be adversely affected due to compliance with new accounting policies relating to the expensing of stock options. We are required to prepare financial statements in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (FASB) recently issued accounting standard SFAS No. 123(R), “Shared-Based Payment.” SFAS No. 123(R) requires the fair value of all equity-based awards granted to employees to be recognized in financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2006. The result is that we will be required to record an expense with respect to stock option grants, even if the exercise price of the stock options is equal to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of grant. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, although it will have no impact on our overall financial position or cash flows. SFAS No. 123(R) also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after adoption. The impact will depend on our levels of share-based payments granted in the future, among other things. You can see more details in “Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” 8 Risks relating to acquisitions. We have made acquisitions in the past and we may make additional acquisitions in the future. In October 2005 we announced that we had signed a definitive agreement to acquire privately-held Sourcefire, Inc., subject to various conditions, and we have not yet completed this acquisition. The closing of the acquisition of Sourcefire is subject to regulatory approval, for which we have submitted two separate applications with regulatory authorities in the U.S. We have received United States anti-trust approval and we are waiting for a determination on our pending application with the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) under the Exon-Florio legislation (Section 5021 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988), which provides for a 30-day review following notification of a potential acquisition. CFIUS has the option to extend the review period for an additional 45-day investigation. In February 2006, CFIUS notified us that the 30-day review provided by the Exon-Florio legislation had expired and our pending application had moved into the investigative stage for an additional 45-day investigation. Although we are working with CFIUS through the investigative period, we cannot be certain that the acquisition will be approved or will be approved on the terms originally negotiated or otherwise acceptable to us. For more information regarding our proposed acquisition of Sourcefire and CFIUS review, see “Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” under the caption “Overview.” In March 2004 we completed the acquisition of Zone Labs, Inc. The acquisition of Zone Labs involved the integration of two companies that had previously operated independently, as will the acquisition of Sourcefire if completed. The difficulties of combining the companies’ operations, which may be present in any substantial acquisition we may make, include issues such as: the coordination of geographically separate organizations, integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds, potential difficulties in retaining employees and the associated adverse effects on relationships with existing partners. The integration may interrupt the activities of one or both of the combined companies’ businesses and may result in the loss of key personnel. This could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Our operating margins may decline. We may experience a decline in operating margins due to the following reasons: n increased competition that will result in pressure on us to reduce prices, n additional investments in the continuing development and expansion of our sales and marketing organization, including the expansion of our field organization both in the United States and additional countries in Europe, Asia and Latin America, n integration of an acquired business that at the time of acquisition has operating margins lower than ours, n additional expansion of our research and development organization, n changes to the treatment of stock option compensation due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), and 9 n expected growth in the percentage of revenues that we derive from products incorporating hardware, which have lower operating margins than software products. Our operating margins are likely to fluctuate based on the amount and timing of these developments. In addition, if our revenue levels are below expectations, this will likely have an adverse effect on our operating margins, since most of our expenses are not variable. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate, which could cause us to miss expectations about these results and cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline. Our revenues from our sales are not consistent from quarter to quarter and we experience some degree of seasonality in our sales. Factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from period to period include: n changes in customer capital spending budgets and the allocation of these budgets over the course of the year, n seasonal trends in customer purchasing, n the occurrence of Internet security breaches or threats, n the timing and success of new products and new technologies introduced by us or our competitors, n regional or global economic and political conditions, n our ability to integrate the technology and operations of acquired businesses with our own business, and n fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Unfavorable changes in the factors listed above, most of which are outside of our control, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Historically, our revenues have reflected seasonal fluctuations related to the slowdown in spending activities in Europe for the third quarter, and the increased activity related to the year-end purchasing cycles of many users of our products. We believe that we will continue to encounter quarter-to-quarter seasonality. We operate with virtually no backlog. Therefore, the timing and volume of orders within a given period and our ability to fulfill these orders determine the amount of our revenues within the period. We derive our sales principally through indirect channels, making it difficult for us to predict revenues. Furthermore, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenues. If our revenue levels are below expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely affected, since most of our expenses are not variable. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Due to the factors described above, it is likely that in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline significantly. 10 We are exposed to additional costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. As a public company, we will be spending an increased amount of management time and resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and Nasdaq National Market rules. Particularly, as a foreign private issuer, we will need to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act no later than the filing of our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Section 404 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting, and attestation of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting by management and our independent registered public accounting firm in connection with the filing of our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, and with each subsequently filed annual report on Form 20-F. As part of this process, we will need to document and test our internal control systems and procedures and make improvements in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. This process will result in additional accounting and legal expenses. We depend on our key personnel, including our executive officers, and the failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our future performance depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical, marketing, sales and management personnel, including particularly our executive officers who were involved in the development of our Stateful Inspection technology and all of our principal products and technologies. None of our key personnel is bound by an employment agreement requiring service for any defined period of time. Our future performance also depends on our ability to attract such skilled personnel in the future. Competition for these personnel is intense. In order to retain our employees, we provide many of them with cash and stock based awards that can be realized over time, for their long term contribution, and we offer some of them career development paths within Check Point. We cannot assure you that we can retain our key personnel in the future. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could make it difficult for us to meet key objectives, such as timely product introductions, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce, in whole or in part, agreements that prohibit some of our employees from competing with us or working for our competitors after they cease working for us. It may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have recently required employers seeking to enforce non-competition undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that material harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. We are dependent on a small number of distributors and resellers and on a limited number of product families. Two distributors accounted for about 24% of our sales in 2005 (approximately 12% each), and in each of 2003 and 2004 a single distributor accounted for about 13% of our sales. We expect that a small number of distributors and resellers will continue to generate a significant portion of our sales. If these distributors and resellers reduce the amount of their purchases from us, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 11 Currently, most of our revenues are generated from sales of Internet security products, which are primarily sold under the VPN-1 and related brands, and related sales of software subscriptions, support, training and consulting. Our future growth depends heavily on our ability to effectively develop and sell new product lines as well as add new features to existing product lines. You can see more details in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point” and in “Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” We incorporate third party technology in our products, which may make us dependent on the providers of these technologies and expose us to potential intellectual property claims. Our products contain certain technology that others license to us. Third party developers or owners of technologies may not be willing to enter into, or renew, license agreements with us regarding technologies that we may wish to incorporate in our products, either on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain licenses to these technologies, we may be at a disadvantage compared with our competitors who are able to license these technologies. In addition, when we do obtain licenses to third party technologies that we did not develop, we may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether the technology infringes the intellectual property rights of others. Our suppliers and licensors may not be required or may not be able to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. We are the defendants in various lawsuits, and litigation is expensive and disruptive. We are the defendants in various lawsuits, including employment claims and other legal proceedings in the normal course of our business. In addition, we received several class action complaints alleging violations of the federal securities laws. These complaints were later consolidated by the court into one action. You can see more details in “Item 8 – Financial Information” under the caption “Legal proceedings.” Legal proceedings can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and can require extensive management attention and resources, regardless of their merit. Moreover, we cannot predict the results of complex legal proceedings, and an unfavorable resolution of a lawsuit or proceeding could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Companies such as ours in the software industry and other technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation as a result of the volatility of their stock prices. As noted above, we have been named as a defendant in this kind of litigation. Any litigation of this sort could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights. We seek to protect our proprietary technology by relying on a combination of common law copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions as indicated below in the section entitled “Proprietary Rights” in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point.” We have certain patents in the United States and some other countries, as well as pending patent applications. We cannot guarantee that pending patent applications will be issued, either at all or within the scope of the patent claims that we have submitted. In addition, someone else may challenge our patents and these patents may be found invalid. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar to or better than ours, or may work around any patents issued to us. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, others may copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary. Although we do not know the extent to which there is piracy of our software products, software piracy is a persistent problem. We try to police this type of activity, but it is difficult to do so effectively. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States or Israel. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop technology that is similar to our technology. 12 We are exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with international operations; these risks could increase our costs, reduce future growth opportunities and affect our results of operations. We sell our products worldwide, and we book a significant portion of our revenue outside the United States. We intend to continue to expand our international operations, which will require significant management attention and financial resources. In order to continue to expand worldwide, we will need to establish additional operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional channel partners internationally. To the extent that we are unable to do so effectively, our growth is likely to be limited and our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Our international revenues and operations subject us to many risks inherent in international business activities, including, but not limited to: n technology import and export license requirements, n costs of localizing our products for foreign countries, and the lack of acceptance of localized products in foreign countries, n trade restrictions, n imposition of or increases in tariffs or other payments on our revenues in these markets, n changes in regulatory requirements, n greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property, n difficulties in managing our overseas subsidiaries and our international operations, n changes in general economic conditions, n political instability and civil unrest, which could discourage investment and complicate our dealings with governments, n variety of foreign laws and legal standards, n expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities, n fluctuations in currency exchange rates, such as an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that would make our products more expensive in local currency and, therefore, potentially less competitive in those markets, n difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition, n differing labor standards, n potentially adverse tax consequences, including taxation of a portion of our revenues at higher rates than the tax rate that applies to us in Israel, and n the introduction of exchange controls and other restrictions by foreign governments. These difficulties could cause our revenues to decline, increase our costs or both. 13 We are controlled by a small number of existing shareholders, who may make decisions with which you may disagree. As of December 31, 2005 our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 23.5% of our outstanding ordinary shares. The interests of these shareholders may differ from your interests and present a conflict. If these shareholders act together, they could exercise significant influence over our operations and business strategy. For example, although these shareholders hold considerably less than a majority of our outstanding ordinary shares, they have sufficient voting power to influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election and removal of directors and the approval or rejection of mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, or deprive you of a possible premium for your ordinary shares as part of a sale of our company. Indemnification of directors and officers. We have entered into agreements with each of our directors and senior officers to insure, indemnify and exculpate them against some types of claims, subject to dollar limits and other limitations. These agreements provide, subject to Israeli law, for us to indemnify each of these directors and senior officers for any of the following obligations or expenses that they may incur: n monetary liability imposed on the director or senior officer in favor of a third party in a judgment, including a settlement or an arbitral award confirmed by a court, for an act that the director or senior officer performed by virtue of being our director or senior officer, n reasonable legal costs, including attorneys’ fees, expended by a director or senior officer as a result of an investigation or proceeding instituted against the director or senior officer by a competent authority, provided that such investigation or proceeding concludes without the filing of an indictment against the director or senior officer and either: š no financial liability was imposed on the director or senior officer in lieu of criminal proceedings, or š financial liability was imposed on the director or senior officer in lieu of criminal proceedings but the alleged criminal offense does not require proof of criminal intent, and n reasonable legal costs, including attorneys’ fees, expended by the director or senior officer or for which the director or senior officer is charged by a court: š in an action brought against the director or senior officer by us, on our behalf or on behalf of a third party, š in a criminal action in which the director or senior officer is found innocent, or š in a criminal action in which the director or senior officer is convicted but in which proof of criminal intent is not required. Our business and operations are especially subject to the risks of earthquakes and other natural catastrophic events. Our headquarters in the United States, as well as certain of our research and development operations, are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could damage our operations and properties, and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel, where our principal executive offices and our principal research and development facilities are located, may adversely affect our results of operations. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in and surrounding Israel may directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could materially adversely affect our operations. Since October 2000 terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The tax benefits available to us under Israeli law require us to meet several conditions, and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. Our facilities in Israel have been granted Approved Enterprise status under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, commonly referred to as the Investment Law. The Investment Law provides that capital investments in a production facility (or other eligible assets) may be designated as an Approved Enterprise. Until recently, the designation required advance approval from the Investment Center of the Israel Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (the Investment Center). For these programs to be eligible for tax benefits, we must meet certain conditions, relating principally to adherence to the approved programs and to periodic reporting obligations. We believe that we are currently in compliance with these requirements. However, if we fail to meet these requirements, we would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the regular statutory rate. We could also be required to refund tax benefits, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. Our board of directors has determined that we will not distribute any amounts of our undistributed tax exempt income as dividend. We intend to reinvest our tax-exempt income and not to distribute such income as a dividend. Accordingly, no deferred income taxes have been provided on income attributable to our Approved Enterprise program as the undistributed tax exempt income is essentially permanent in duration. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the Investment Law came into effect, which revised the criteria for investments qualified to receive tax benefits. An eligible investment program under the amendment will qualify for benefits as a Privileged Enterprise (rather than the previous terminology of Approved Enterprise). Among other things, the amendment provides tax benefits to both local and foreign investors and simplifies the approval process. The amendment does not apply to investment programs approved prior to December 31, 2004. The new tax regime will apply to new investment programs only. As a result of the amendment, tax-exempt income generated under the provisions of the new law will subject us to taxes upon distribution or liquidation and we may be required to record deferred tax liability with respect to such tax-exempt income. We are currently evaluating the impact the amendment will have on us. Based on our preliminary analysis, it may materially adversely affect our 2006 financial statements. You can see more details in “Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Products” under the caption “Taxes on income” and in “Item 10 – Additional Information” under the caption “Israeli Taxation, Foreign Exchange Regulation and Investment Programs.” 15 Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our male employees in Israel, including members of senior management, are obligated to perform one month (in some cases more) of annual military reserve duty until they reach age 45 and, in the event of a military conflict, could be called to active duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of military service of one or more of our key employees. A disruption could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, prevent a change of control and negatively impact our share price. Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders, and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential acquisition transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. For example, Israeli tax law may subject a shareholder who exchanges his or her ordinary shares for shares in a foreign corporation to taxation before disposition of the investment in the foreign corporation. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. In addition, our articles of association contain certain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire us, such as the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred shares. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of us, thereby limiting the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares and possibly affecting the price that some investors are willing to pay for our securities. You can see more details in “Item 10 – Additional Information” under the caption “Articles of association and Israeli Companies Law – Anti-takeover measures.” 