ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investors should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, which are some of the factors that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and result of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets. If rates increase rapidly as a result of an improving economy, we may have to increase the rates paid on our deposits and borrowed funds more quickly than loans and investments reprice, resulting in a negative impact on interest spreads and net interest income. The impact of rising rates could be compounded if deposit customers move funds from savings accounts to higher 29 rate certificate of deposit accounts. Conversely, should market interest rates fall below current levels, our net interest margin could also be negatively affected, as competitive pressures could keep us from further reducing rates on our deposits, and prepayments and curtailments on assets may continue. Such movements may cause a decrease in our interest rate spread and net interest margin. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowings costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. Our nonresidential real estate and commercial loans expose us to increased credit risks. At December 31, 2006, our portfolio of nonresidential real estate and land loans totaled $79.9 million, or 32.3% of totals loans, and our commercial loans totaled $29 million, or 11.8% of total loans. These types of loans generally have greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. An economic slowdown in our market area could affect our business. Our primary market area for deposits and loans consists of Jefferson and Clark Counties in Southeastern Indiana and adjacent Carroll County in Kentucky. An economic slowdown in these areas could hurt our business. Possible consequences of such a downturn could include the following: • increases in loan delinquencies and foreclosures; • declines in the value of real estate and other collateral for loans; and • a decline in the demand for our products and services. We are subject to extensive regulation and legislative or regulatory changes could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on them. Policies adopted or required by these governmental authorities can affect our business operations and the availability, growth and distribution of the Bank’s investments, borrowings and deposits. In addition, the Office of Thrift Supervision periodically conducts examinations of the Holding Company and the Bank and may impose various requirements or sanctions. Proposals to change the laws governing financial institutions are frequently raised in Congress and before bank regulatory authorities. Changes in applicable laws or policies could materially affect our business, and the likelihood of any major changes in the future and their effects are impossible to determine. Moreover, it is impossible to predict the ultimate form any proposed legislation might take or how it might affect us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 30 ITEM 