RISK FACTORS Risk of Launch and In-orbit Failure, Loss, Reduced Performance and Satellite Defects Satellites are subject to significant risks, including launch and in-orbit failure, satellite defects, destruction and damage that may result in total or partial loss or incorrect orbital placement or may prevent proper commercial operation. The failure rate varies by launch vehicle, launch services provider and satellite manufacturer. A total or constructive total loss of any of our satellites would have a material adverse effect on our performance and revenue. In addition, any defects in AsiaSat 2, AsiaSat 3S, AsiaSat 4 or the future AsiaSat 5 could also have a material adverse effect on our profitability, total revenue and financial condition. See “Information on the Company — Satellites” under Item 4. Risks in Relation to the Construction and Launch of AsiaSat 5 AsiaSat has entered into a construction contract and a launch contract for the commissioning of AsiaSat 5, our new satellite that is under construction and that will replace AsiaSat 2, which is tentatively scheduled to be retired in late 2010. We currently expect to launch AsiaSat 5 by early 2009 so as to allow sufficient time for the construction and launch of another satellite in the 5 Table of Contents event of an unsuccessful launch of AsiaSat 5. We will continue to monitor the potential delays in, or failure of, the launch of AsiaSat 5 to ensure the continuity of our services to our customers. However, there can be no assurance that alternative means to ensure such continuity will be available or feasible, and loss of continuity could have a material effect on our performance and total revenue. The construction contractor, Loral, is a subsidiary of Loral Space & Communications Inc., which emerged from chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy laws of the United States in November 2005. Any future financial difficulties of Loral may adversely affect its performance under the construction contract entered into with AsiaSat and may adversely affect the success of, or delay, the launch of AsiaSat 5. In addition, there can be no assurance that a launch vehicle will be available or that the launch of AsiaSat 5 will otherwise occur in 2009 as currently planned or that the subsequent in-orbit testing will be successful. In the event AsiaSat 5 does not meet its launch specifications, we have limited opportunities to replace AsiaSat 5 (and, therefore, AsiaSat 2) and the failure to timely replace AsiaSat 5 (and AsiaSat 2) may result in the interruption of services to our customers and adversely affect our operations, performance and financial results. Our right to use the orbital location from which AsiaSat 5 is to operate may not be maintained. In addition, the cost of insurance is a significant portion of the total cost of the construction and launch of a satellite and there can be no assurance that sufficient insurance can be obtained at a reasonable price prior to the launch of AsiaSat 5. See “Information on the Company – Satellites – AsiaSat 5” under Item 4. Risk of Not Successfully Renewing Existing Transponder Capacity Agreements or Not Renewing Them on Terms Similar to Their Current Terms or Customers Switching to Other Providers of Satellite Transponder Capacity Our existing transponder capacity agreements, also known as transponder utilization agreements, provide for certain termination dates. The average duration of these agreements between signing and termination has become shorter. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining the renewal of such agreements on similar commercial terms, including price levels, and for similar duration, or in identifying alternate users for returned capacity, our revenues and financial results will be materially adversely affected. In order to discourage the unlawful interruption and interference of transmission of Chinese television programs, in 2007, the Chinese government launched Sinosat 3 and Chinasat 6B, two new satellites with “anti-attack” technology. The Chinese television broadcasters transmitting via our satellites have switched to these satellites. This has had a negative impact on our revenue and financial results. Chinese television broadcasters accounted for approximately 4.6% of our total revenue in 2007, compared to approximately 8.8% of our total revenue in 2006. AsiaSat 5, expected to be launched in 2009, will also have “anti-attack” features, however, there can be no assurance that the Chinese television broadcasters will switch back to AsiaSat 5 after its launch or that AsiaSat 5 will have enough capacity to accommodate such broadcasters. Limited Life of Satellites A number of factors affect the estimated useful life of a satellite, including the quality of their construction, the durability of their component parts, the amount of fuel on-board, the launch vehicle used and the skill with which the satellite is monitored and operated. There can be no assurance as to the specific longevity of AsiaSat 2, AsiaSat 3S, AsiaSat 4 or AsiaSat 5, which will replace AsiaSat 2. Our results would be adversely affected in the event the useful life of AsiaSat 2, AsiaSat 3S or AsiaSat 4 were significantly shorter than our estimates, which we set forth in “Information on the Company — Satellites” under Item 4. 6 Table of Contents Risk of Losing Satellite Service Revenues if Other Satellites or Signals Interfere with Our Transmissions Satellites operating from orbital slots that are adjacent to, and using the same band of frequencies as our satellites, could interfere with the signals transmitted from our satellites. Moreover, terrestrial radio transmitters, e.g. in Broadband Wireless Access (BWA) networks, operating in overlapping or adjacent frequency bands in an area could interfere with, or disrupt satellite reception in that area. Such interference could lead to the loss of satellite service revenues if customers migrate to competitors who operate satellites without such interference. We have entered into frequency coordination agreements with certain other operators to avoid any material interference pursuant to which we have agreed to certain operating constraints. Our ability to use our orbital slots could be further constrained in order to avoid material interference with other satellites. Disputes over interference could arise with other operators. For example, currently we are having issues with coordinating certain frequencies on one of our satellites with those of a satellite that Protostar intends to launch. Failure to reach agreement could cause interference and lead to loss of satellite service revenues. In addition, unintentional or intentional signals could interfere with the transmissions of our customers and could severely damage our reputation. If not remedied, such interference could lead to a loss of satellite service revenues if customers migrate to competitors, which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues. See “Information on the Company — Additional Orbital Slots and Use of Frequencies” and “Information on the Company – Satellites – AsiaSat 3S” under Item 4. Risk of Loss or Damage to Satellites, Ground Based Satellite Control Equipment or Satellite Stations from Acts of War, Terrorism, Electrostatic Storm, Space Debris and Other Natural Disasters The loss, damage or destruction of AsiaSat 2, AsiaSat 3S, AsiaSat 4 or AsiaSat 5, or damage or destruction to AsiaSat’s ground based satellite control equipment and satellite stations, as a result of military actions or acts of war, terrorism, anti-satellite devices, electrostatic storm, collision with space debris, other natural disasters or other causes would have an adverse effect on the Company. AsiaSat’s insurance policies include standard commercial satellite insurance provisions and customary exclusions from losses resulting from (i) military or similar actions, (ii) terrorism, (iii) laser, directed energy or nuclear anti-satellite devices, (iv) insurrection and similar acts or governmental action to prevent such acts, (v) governmental confiscation, (vi) nuclear reaction or radiation contamination or (vii) willful or intentional acts of AsiaSat or its contractors. Uninsured losses are likely to have a material adverse effect on our revenue and financial condition. See “Information on the Company — Insurance” under Item 4. Reliance Upon Significant Customer Our largest customer is STAR Group Limited, or STAR, a Hong Kong–based international satellite television broadcasting company that broadcasts over the greater Asian region and is wholly-owned by News Corporation, a leading international media group. STAR accounted for approximately 25.7%, 24.3% and 24.1% of AsiaSat’s revenues in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. See “Information on the Company – Services and Customers” under Item 4. 7 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by the loss of STAR as a customer or if STAR failed to perform its obligations in accordance with the terms of its transponder utilization agreements. There can be no assurance that STAR will enter into additional transponder utilization agreements with us upon the expiration of existing transponder utilization agreements. Risk of Technological Changes Technology in the satellite broadcasting and telecommunications industry is in a rapid and continuing state of change. Technological developments may have an adverse impact on our business. First, because our satellites have an estimated useful life of approximately 15 years, the technology used in such satellites may not be the most advanced at some future date. As a consequence, customers could migrate to satellite operators offering new generations of competing satellite systems that incorporate more advanced technologies, or more suitable satellite capabilities or configurations, after the expiration of the contract term, which would result in revenue loss to us. In addition, we might be required to replace satellites earlier than expected to address these developments. Second, increased transponder efficiency resulting from advances in compression technology, if not offset by increased applications for satellite capacity, may cause an overall decrease in demand for such capacity. Risk of Limited Market Demand and Increasing Competition The business in which we operate is highly competitive. The satellite services that we provide are used by our customers for point-to-point or point-to-multipoint communication (principally television broadcasting, private communication networks, Internet and multimedia services). Our principal competitors are regional and domestic satellite companies operating in the Asian region as well as global operators. Many of these competitors are licensed by the local governments and have de facto monopolies in their countries. Many of these competitors also are substantially larger in fleet size, and have financial resources that are substantially greater, than those of the Company. See “Information on the Company – Competition” under Item 4. Transponder Oversupply. The supply of transponders continues to exceed the demand for transponders and, due to persistent oversupply of transponder capacity and the slow introduction of new applications in the region, the Asia-Pacific satellite market remains particularly competitive. The economies of Asia have continued to strengthen and there is a general increase in demand for new applications such as video, the growth of internet protocol television, high definition television (HDTV), video-to-mobile, and DTH services. Recent new capacity, however, continues to exacerbate the existing oversupply and this will continue to impact, to some extent, our ability to grow. See “Information on the Company – Competition – Transponder Oversupply” under Item 4. Competing Systems and Satellites. AsiaSat competes with a number of global, regional and domestic satellites and satellite systems such as APSTAR, China DBSAT, Indosat, INSAT, Intelsat, JSAT, Koreasat, MEASAT, Eutelsat, SES New Skies, Singtel Optus, Thaicom and others. We believe that most of the domestic systems are planning to add at least some regional transponders to their next generation of satellites. The increased competition could adversely affect our business prospects. See “Information on the Company – Competition – Competition Restriction from Domestic Systems” under Item 4. Fiber Optic Systems. Fiber optic systems have been widely installed within the region for point-to-point trans-oceanic communications. In addition, point-to-point fiber optic connections between cities in Asia are common. As fiber optic coverage increases, the competitiveness of 8 Table of Contents satellites for point-to-point communication will diminish. In addition, the transmission of television programming via Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL) and Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) technologies, commonly known as Internet Protocol Television (IPTV), is also an alternative to transmission of television programming via direct broadcasting satellite and cable. Risks Relating to Future Satellites The construction, launch and operation of AsiaSat 5 and any future satellites by us would be subject to substantially the same risks as those relating to AsiaSat 2, AsiaSat 3S and AsiaSat 4. In addition, AsiaSat’s ability to make capital expenditures in connection with the construction and launch of future satellites could be subject to conditions of future financing arrangements. See “— Risks in Relation to the Construction and Launch of AsiaSat 5 and “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Planned Capital Expenditures” under Item 5. Our Controlling Shareholders Have Interests That May Conflict with our Interests or Other Shareholders We are controlled by CITIC Group, or CITIC, and General Electric Company, or GE, which indirectly own 37.6% and 36.8%, respectively, of our outstanding Shares. The interests of CITIC and GE as our controlling shareholders could conflict with our interests or with the interests of our other shareholders. CITIC and GE may take actions or cause us to take actions that may not be in the best interests of other shareholders. In addition, the business of our controlling shareholders may be in competition with ours. For example, GE operates GE-23, part of whose footprint overlaps with that of our satellites, and as such competes or may compete with our business. We cannot assure that such conflict of interests and competing business activities will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. See “Information on the Company – Change in Major Shareholder and Mandatory General Offers” under Item 4. We are Subject to Regulation by a Number of Different Bodies The business in which we operate is highly regulated. Satellite, broadcasting and telecommunications services are subject to international and national law. Hong Kong. As an operator of privately owned satellites, AsiaSat is subject to the regulatory authority of the Office of the Telecommunications Authority of Hong Kong (OFTA), which in turn is subject to the control and supervision of China. Our business prospects could be adversely affected by the adoption of new laws, policies or regulations, or changes in the administration, interpretation or application of existing laws, policies and regulations that modify the present regulatory environment in Hong Kong. Licenses granted to AsiaSat are subject to conditions specified therein. The conditions may include basic orbital parameters (and requirements to obtain advance approval for any intended deviations and to notify any unintentional deviation), requirements to avoid interference with the activities of other users of outer space and requirements not to cause actions which may give rise to liabilities on the part of China or Hong Kong. Breach of any such conditions can give rise to a right of revocation of the relevant license. Our operation of earth stations is subject to the Telecommunications Ordinance (Chapter 106 of the Laws of Hong Kong), or the Telecommunications Ordinance. The Telecommunications 9 Table of Contents Ordinance contains provisions for the taking of possession by the Hong Kong Government of telecommunications stations if the Chief Executive in Council is of the opinion that an emergency has arisen in which it is expedient for the public service that the Hong Kong Government should have control over telecommunications stations. See “Information on the Company – Regulation – Hong Kong Regulation.” There is currently a worldwide trend to assign spectrum in the 3.4-3.8 GHz range, particularly the 3.4-3.6 GHz range, for broadband wireless access (BWA) applications. Following the decisions by the 2007 World Radio Conference (WRC-07), this may in many countries also include future mobile phone systems (IMT). We do not use the 3.4-3.6 GHz band in our satellites, but analyses, testing and practical experience from places where such networks have been deployed show that such networks will interfere or disrupt satellite reception in the same area, also in the 3.6-4.2 GHz band where the AsiaSat satellites operate. While many countries at this stage have reservations or are undecided on a future IMT deployment, most countries have issued licenses for some kind of BWA operation. These services are currently being implemented in several countries. Should this trend continue, C band satellite services for all satellite operators will be seriously disadvantaged. Hong Kong is one exception where OFTA, after conducting analyses and field trials, concluded that, due to the interference from BWA with satellite reception, the two services could not co-exist. OFTA therefore decided for the time being, not to issue BWA licenses in this band. Should this decision later be changed, interference with satellite reception also in Hong Kong could occur, including AsiaSat’s two earth stations in Hong Kong. If BWA networks are deployed in mainland China in areas neighboring Hong Kong, there could be the same impact on satellite reception in Hong Kong. China is one of the countries that has started a limited deployment of BWA networks in C band. Other National Regulatory Schemes. Our customers are regulated by regulatory authorities in the countries in which they operate. Many of our customers must have authorization from the countries in which such customers are located in order to uplink to and communicate by means of our satellites. Although we do not believe these regulatory schemes prevent us from pursuing our business, there can be no assurance that such licenses and approvals are or will remain sufficient in the view of national regulatory authorities and that these authorities will not discourage or prevent potential customers from utilizing transponders on our satellites. The laws of certain countries require television broadcasters and satellite telecommunication users providing services in such countries to use state-owned or locally-owned satellites. Punitive withholding taxes are often applicable to payments made under non-domestic satellite contracts. These legal requirements prevent us and other satellite companies from competing freely and fairly to provide transponder capacity to these potential customers. There can be no assurance that other countries in the Asian region, including countries in which we already have customers, will not impose similar requirements to use state-owned or locally-owned satellites in the future. The imposition of such requirements could adversely affect our results of operations and financial results. See “Information on the Company – Competition” under Item 4. We could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations, relating to taxation or licensing fees in countries that may assert jurisdiction over our activities, including countries where customers of ours are located or where signals transmitted by our satellites are received. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Taxation” under Item 5. 10 Table of Contents International Telecommunication Union. AsiaSat’s use of orbital slots and radio frequency is subject to the regulations of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). Countries are required by treaty to make a filing of their proposed use of satellite orbital slots for geostationary satellites with the Radiocommunication Bureau of the ITU. When a conflict or potential conflict is noted, nations are obligated to negotiate in an effort to coordinate the proposed uses and resolve any interference concerns. The Radiocommunication Bureau, however, has no formal dispute resolution mechanism, and if countries cannot agree on a resolution, a satellite system will not obtain full interference protection as afforded under international law. See “Information on the Company – Regulation – International Telecommunication Union.” Political, Economic and Other Regional Risks AsiaSat is a Hong Kong company. Substantially all of AsiaSat’s revenues are derived from its operations conducted in the Asian region. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, approximately 61.9%, 57.6% and 52.9%, respectively, of AsiaSat’s revenues, were derived from customers from Greater China, which includes mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. Furthermore, during 2005, 2006 and 2007, approximately, 25.7%, 24.3% and 24.1%, respectively, of AsiaSat’s revenues were attributable to transponder utilization agreements with STAR, a Hong Kong company. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be influenced by the political situation in the Asian region and by the general state of the economies in such region. China. General economic conditions in China could have a significant impact on our financial prospects. The economy of China has been changing dramatically with a gradual reduction in the role of state economic plans in the allocation of resources, pricing and management of assets and an increased reliance on market forces. Any slowdown in economic growth or return to non-market policies could adversely affect business in China. We may also be adversely affected by changes in the political and social conditions in China, and by changes in laws, regulations and governmental policies, with respect to broadcast media, telecommunications services, inflationary measures, currency conversion or the rates and methods of taxation, among other things. While the Chinese government is expected to continue its economic reform policies, many of the reforms are new or experimental and may be refined or changed. Also see “–- Risk of Not Successfully Renewing Existing Transponder Capacity Agreements or Not Renewing Them on Terms Similar to Their Current Terms or Customers Switching to Other Providers of Satellite Transponder Capacity.” Almost all payments under AsiaSat’s transponder utilization agreements are made in US Dollars. Since China has extensive foreign exchange controls, the ability of Chinese companies to convert Renminbi (the currency of China) into foreign currency and to purchase foreign currency is subject to various Chinese laws and regulations. China’s current or future foreign exchange controls could adversely affect the ability of our customers in China to make payments to us in US Dollars. Hong Kong. Hong Kong is a Special Administrative Region of China. Although the Basic Law, which governs China’s relationship with Hong Kong, provides that Hong Kong will have a high degree of legislative, judicial and economic autonomy, there can be no assurance that the our financial condition and results of operations will not be adversely affected as a consequence of the exercise of China’s sovereignty over Hong Kong. In addition, political and social developments in China have from time to time adversely affected the Hong Kong economy. 11 Table of Contents SARS, Avian Flu or Similar Occurrence. Our business could be adversely affected by the re-emergence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (or SARS) or the development of a possible pandemic such as the avian influenza or a similar type of regional occurrence. Restrictions on travel resulting from these possible events could adversely affect the Company’s ability to market and service new and existing customers throughout the Asian region. In addition, sick employees or other employees who fear contracting such illness could decide to not report for work. Our results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent that SARS, avian influenza or a similar type of regional occurrence harms the economy in, or otherwise negatively affects, China or the Asian region generally. Limitations on Warranties and Insurance Pursuant to AsiaSat’s satellite construction contracts with Lockheed Martin for AsiaSat 2, Boeing Satellite Systems, International, Inc., or Boeing (formerly known as Hughes Space and Communications International, Inc.) for AsiaSat 3S and AsiaSat 4, and Loral for AsiaSat 5, AsiaSat is the beneficiary of certain limited performance-based, operational warranties on its satellites. However, the limited contractual warranties do not cover a substantial portion of the risk inherent in satellite launches or satellite operations. Furthermore, there has been a general rise in the cost of insurance following a series of satellite failures. In addition, while the cost of insurance has increased, insurance coverage has decreased as a result of the increase in satellite in-orbit failures and the terrorist events on and after September 11, 2001. AsiaSat has in-orbit insurance coverage for AsiaSat 3S and AsiaSat 4 and plans to obtain such coverage for AsiaSat 5. AsiaSat’s in-orbit insurance must be renewed annually. AsiaSat 2 is no longer insured for in-orbit failures. See “Information on the Company—Satellites—AsiaSat 2”. There are circumstances in which AsiaSat’s insurance will not fully reimburse AsiaSat for its expenditures with respect to launching a replacement satellite (for example, if the cost of replacement exceeds the sum insured), and the insurance will not compensate AsiaSat for business interruption and similar losses (including, among other things, loss of market share, loss of revenue and incidental and consequential damages) which might arise from the failure of a satellite launch and launch of a replacement satellite or a failure of a satellite to perform to specifications. For a description of the amounts and coverage of AsiaSat’s launch, in-orbit and liability insurance, see “Information on the Company — Insurance” under Item 4. Risks Related to U.S. Export Controls The United States tightly restricts the export of commercial communications satellites and satellite-related components and technology. U.S. export control policy toward Hong Kong and AsiaSat is affected by U.S.-PRC relations, which can vary from time to time. AsiaSat has sourced all its satellites in the United States, including the new AsiaSat 5. Although we have obtained approvals from the State Department for our satellites, there can be no assurance that U.S. policy will not change in ways that will have a negative effect on the export of future satellites, including the timing of such export, nor can there be any assurance that future U.S. sourcing by us will be unimpeded by U.S. export restrictions. The State Department’s approval is required when there is a change in ownership of the satellites. In April 2007, in connection with a proposed transaction in which we would be taken private, the State Department indicated to GE that it viewed the proposed transaction as causing a significant change of control of a party owning and controlling previously exported satellites that would require its approval and it 12 Table of Contents was not prepared to grant such approval in the context of that transaction. We have since voluntarily delisted our ADSs from the NYSE, with such delisting becoming effective on February 28, 2008. Were the State Department to have any concerns in the future over our shareholder base, it might have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Risk of Loss of Rights to Orbital Slots In addition to the frequency bands currently used in the three primary positions of 100.5 degrees East, 105.5 degrees East, and 122.2 degrees East, in which our satellites currently operate, China has filed requests with the ITU on behalf of AsiaSat for a number of other frequency bands in the same orbit locations and for enhanced operating parameters in the current frequency bands. These filings are at different stages in the application process. AsiaSat may not be able to maintain its right to operate satellites in its primary positions, or to obtain rights to launch and operate satellites with enhanced parameters or additional frequency bands, or to fully use the allocated frequencies because of the limitations imposed by coordination agreements with other satellite systems, and any of these developments may have an adverse effect in our operations and financial results. See “Information on the Company – Satellites – Orbital Slots and Use of Frequencies” and “Information on the Company – Satellites – AsiaSat 4” under Item 4. Potential Future Leverage AsiaSat may incur borrowings under a loan facility in the future. Such a loan facility may contain covenants, including financial covenants, which could prevent us from undertaking certain acquisitions and purchases that may be necessary for our growth. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Item 5. Risk of Not Being Able to Hire and Retain Technology Specialists in the Satellite Industry Our continued success depends substantially on our ability to hire, retain and motivate highly skilled technology specialists. Because the number of people with such skills is limited, satellite operators compete vigorously for their services. The potential consequences of our loss of, or our inability to attract, key workers could include delays or inability to launch, monitor or control satellites, with a consequent reduction in sales and profits. Alternatively, we may have to offer more attractive remuneration packages than our competitors, which would increase our personnel expenses and could reduce our margins. 