Risk Factors Our future operating results may be affected by various risk factors, many of which are beyond our control. Certain of the statements included in this Annual Report and the documents incorporated herein by reference may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding potential future net sales, gross profit, net income and liquidity. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “hope,” “plan,” “intend,” “seek,” “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue” or other similar words. Reference is made in particular to the description of our plans and objectives for future operations, assumptions underlying such plans and objectives, and other forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. We caution investors that there can be no assurance that actual results or business conditions will not differ materially from those projected or suggested in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Factors which could cause such results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include those set forth in the risk factors below. As a result, our future success involves a high degree of risk. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind that the risk factors could cause our actual results to differ significantly from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Risks Related to Our Business An inability to manage our growth, manage the expansion of our operations, or successfully integrate acquired businesses could adversely affect our business. Our business has grown rapidly, with total net revenues increasing from $380.6 million in 2004 to $893.0 million in 2008. Recently, we have made several acquisitions, including our acquisition of Corbett Life Science Pte. Ltd (“Corbett”) in July 2008 and Digene Corporation in July 2007, and may acquire additional businesses in the future. The successful integration of acquired businesses requires a significant effort and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance and administration and information technologies. In January 2009 we purchased land adjacent to our facility in Germany and are in the planning stage to further expand the German facilities for research and development and production space beginning in 2009 and continuing through 2011. In addition, we are planning for expansions at our Germantown, Maryland facility for production and administrative space, construction on which may begin in late 2009 and continue through 2011. Such expansions increase fixed costs. These higher fixed costs will continue to be a cost of operations in the future, and until we fully utilize the additional capacity of the facilities, our gross profit and operating income will be negatively impacted. We also continue to upgrade our operating and financial systems and expand the 5 Table of Contents geographic area of our operations, resulting in the hiring of new employees, as well as increased responsibility for both existing and new management personnel. The rapid expansion of our business and addition of new personnel may place a strain on our management and operational systems. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management to continue to implement and improve our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing and customer support programs, enhance our operational and financial control systems, expand, train and manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our acquisitions expose us to new risks, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of technologies and businesses. During the past several years we have acquired a number of companies, including our acquisition of Corbett in July 2008 and Digene Corporation in July 2007, through which we have gained access to technologies and products that complement our internally developed product lines. In the future, we may acquire additional technologies, products or businesses to expand our existing and planned business. Acquisitions, including our acquisition of Corbett and Digene, expose us to the addition of new operating and other risks including the risks associated with the: • assimilation of new technologies, operations, sites and personnel; • application for and achievement of regulatory approvals or other clearances; • diversion of resources from our existing business and technologies; • generation of revenues to offset associated acquisition costs; • implementation and maintenance of uniform standards and effective controls and procedures; • maintenance of relationships with employees and customers and integration of new management personnel; • issuance of dilutive equity securities; • incurrence or assumption of debt; • amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets or potential businesses; and • exposure to liabilities of and claims against acquired entities. Our failure to address the above risks successfully in the future may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. Our continued growth is dependent on the development and success of new products. Rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions are typical in the markets we serve. Our future success will depend in part on continuous, timely development and introduction of new products that address evolving market requirements. We believe successful new product introductions provide a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and are reluctant to switch thereafter. To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market, we may lose market share to our competitors which will be difficult or impossible to regain. An inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new products could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. In the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of products. We cannot assure you that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our 6 Table of Contents markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products include: • availability, quality and price relative to competitive products; • the timing of introduction of the new product relative to competitive products; • opinions of the new products’ utility; • citation of the new product in published research; • regulatory trends and approvals; and • general trends in life sciences research, applied markets and molecular diagnostics. The expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations could be materially affected by general conditions in the global economy and in the global financial markets. The global financial crisis has caused extreme volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets. Therefore, access to financing has been adversely affected for many borrowers. A severe or prolonged economic downturn could result in a variety of risks to our business, including: • reductions or delays in planned improvements to the healthcare systems and research funding or cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations that could lead to a reduction in future revenues, operating income and cash from operations; • severely limited access to financing over an extended period of time, which may limit our ability to fund our growth strategy could result in a need to delay capital expenditures, acquisitions or research and development projects; • further failures of currently solvent financial institutions, which may cause losses from our short-term cash investments or our hedging transactions due to a counterparty’s inability to fulfill its payment obligations; • inability to refinance existing debt at competitive rates, reasonable terms or sufficient amounts; and • increased volatility or adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We depend on patents and proprietary rights that may fail to protect our business. Our success will depend to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to establish and protect our patent and trademark rights in these products and technologies. As of December 31, 2008, we owned 151 issued patents in the United States, 96 issued patents in Germany and 510 issued patents in other major industrialized countries. In addition, at December 31, 2008, we had 799 pending patent applications, and we intend to file applications for additional patents as our products and technologies are developed. The patent positions of technology-based companies, including QIAGEN, involve complex legal and factual questions and may be uncertain, and the laws governing the scope of patent coverage and the periods of enforceability of patent protection are subject to change. In addition, patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. Therefore, no assurance can be given that patents will issue 7 Table of Contents from any patent applications that we own or license or if patents do issue, that the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, no assurance can be given that any issued patents that we own or license will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide us competitive advantages. Further, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products and as a result, we may lose revenue. A significant portion of our HPV-related intellectual property is in the public domain, while additional HPV-related intellectual property is subject to patents some of which will begin to expire in the next few years or are licensed to us on a non-exclusive basis. As a result, we believe other companies are developing or may develop HPV detection tests. Certain of our products incorporate patents and technologies that are licensed from third parties and for certain products, these in-licensed patents together with other patents provide us with a competitive advantage. These licenses impose various commercialization, sublicensing and other obligations on us. Our failure to comply with these requirements could result in the conversion of the applicable license from being exclusive to non-exclusive in nature or, in some cases, termination of the license and as a result we may lose some competitive advantage and experience a loss of revenue. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect through confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. There can be no assurance that any confidentiality agreements that we have with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. There also can be no assurance that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. We currently engage in, and may continue to engage in, collaborations with academic researchers and institutions. There can be no assurance that under the terms of such collaborations, third parties will not acquire rights in certain inventions developed during the course of the performance of such collaborations. Our concentration of a large amount of revenues in a single product and a small number of customers for that product increases our dependence on that product’s success, our reliance on our relationship with each of those customers, and our reliance on a diversification strategy. Following our acquisition of Digene Corporation, we believe that revenue from sales of our HPV test product may represent as much as 30% of our total revenues. While the ultimate decision to order that test is made by the patient in consultation with her physician, the test is performed by reference laboratories. At present, sales to a limited number of reference laboratories account for the majority of our revenues for that product. A significant reduction in sales of this product may have a significant adverse impact on our earnings. Further, the cost of HPV testing is reimbursed to the reference laboratories by insurance providers and healthcare maintenance organizations. If these insurance companies decide to limit the availability of payments for our test to their members, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenues. It is possible that our dependence on revenues from this product and those customers will continue in the future. If we fail to diversify our product line and customer base for this product, we continue to be at risk that the loss or under-performance of a single product or customer may materially affect our earnings. Our sales of HPV products and our growth will also depend on continued increases in the acceptance of and the market for HPV screening by physicians and laboratories. Our sales of HPV products and our ability to increase sales of HPV products depend upon continued and increasing acceptance by physicians and laboratories of HPV screening as a necessary part of the standard of care for cervical cancer screening and more specifically, of our HPV test products as a primary cervical cancer 8 Table of Contents screening method, either alone or in conjunction with Pap tests and the implementation of prophylactic HPV vaccinations. Pap tests have been the principal means of cervical cancer screening since the 1940s. Technological advances designed to improve quality control over sample collection and preservation and to reduce the Pap test’s susceptibility to human error may increase physician reliance on the Pap test and solidify its market position as the most widely used screen for cervical cancer. Currently, approximately 60 million Pap tests are performed annually in the United States and we believe that 60 to 100 million are performed annually in the rest of the world. HPV testing applies a new molecular-based technology and testing approach that is different from the cytology-based (reviewing cells, for instance, under a microscope) approach of the Pap test. Significant resources are required to educate physicians and laboratories about the patient benefits that can result from using HPV test products in addition to the Pap test, and to assist laboratory customers in learning how to use our HPV test products. Using our HPV test products along with the Pap test for primary screening in the United States may be seen by some of these customers as adding unnecessary expense to the generally accepted cervical cancer screening methodology, and therefore, we continually need to provide information to counteract this impression on a case-by-case basis. If we are not successful in executing our marketing strategies, we may not be able to maintain or continue to grow our market share for HPV testing. Direct-to-consumer (DTC) awareness marketing programs including television advertisements are used because a well educated female population will work with their health care providers to increase the use of the HPV test. If we are not successful in continuing to execute this marketing program, we may not be able to maintain or continue to increase the sales of our HPV tests to the extent we desire. We are working with physician and laboratory customers and with others to develop and establish the role HPV screening will play in addition to and in conjunction with HPV vaccination. If we are not successful in this endeavor, we may not be able to maintain or grow the market for HPV screening or maintain or increase our HPV test revenues. We are subject to risks associated with patent litigation. The biotechnology industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. We are aware that patents have been applied for and/or issued to third parties claiming technologies for the separation and purification of nucleic acids that are closely related to those we use. From time to time we receive inquiries requesting confirmation that we do not infringe patents of third parties. We endeavor to follow developments in this field, and we do not believe that our technologies or products infringe any proprietary rights of third parties. However, there can be no assurance that third parties will not challenge our activities and, if so challenged, that we will prevail. In addition, the patent and proprietary rights of others could require that we alter our products or processes, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to license any technologies that we may require on acceptable terms. In addition, litigation, including proceedings that may be declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the International Trade Commission, may be necessary to respond to any assertions of infringement, enforce our patent rights and/or determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of third parties. Litigation could involve substantial cost, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any such proceedings. Our ability to accurately forecast our results during each quarter may be negatively impacted by the fact that a substantial percentage of our sales may be recorded in the final weeks or days of the quarter. The markets we serve are characterized by a high percentage of purchase orders being received in the final few weeks or even days of each quarter. Although this varies from quarter to quarter, many customers make a large portion of their purchase decisions late in each fiscal quarter, as both their budgets and requirements for the coming quarter become clearer. As a result, even late in each fiscal quarter, we cannot predict with certainty 9 Table of Contents whether our revenue forecasts for the quarter will be achieved. Historically, we have been able to rely on the overall pattern of customer purchase orders during prior periods to project with reasonable accuracy our anticipated sales for the current or coming quarters. However, if our customers’ purchases during a quarter vary from historical patterns, our final quarterly results could deviate significantly from our projections. Consequently, our revenue forecasts for any given quarter may prove not to have been accurate. We may not have enough information as a result of such patterns to confirm or revise our sales projections during a quarter. If we fail to achieve our forecasted revenues for a particular quarter, our stock price could be adversely affected. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year, depending on factors such as the level and timing of our customers’ research and commercialization efforts, the timing of our customers’ funding, the timing of our research and development and sales and marketing expenses, the introduction of new products by us or our competitors, competitive conditions, exchange rate fluctuations and general economic conditions. Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenues. Consequently, revenues or profits may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or from year to year, and revenues and profits in any interim period will not necessarily be indicative of results in subsequent periods. Competition could reduce sales. Our primary competition stems from traditional or “home-brew” methods that utilize widely available reagents and other chemicals to perform sample and assay processing steps. We are also aware that a significant number of laboratory organizations and other companies are developing and using internally developed molecular tests. These tests, in particular if approved by the FDA or similar non-U.S. regulatory authorities, might offer an alternative to our products that could limit the laboratory customer base for our products. The success of our business depends in part on the continued conversion of current users of such traditional methods and home brew tests to our sample and assay technologies and products. There can be no assurance, however, as to how quickly such conversion will occur. We also have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, increasing competition in various segments of our business from companies providing competitive pre-analytical and other products. The markets for certain of our products are very competitive and price sensitive. Other product suppliers have significant financial, operational, sales and marketing resources, and experience in research and development. These and other companies may have developed or could in the future develop new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products obsolete. If a competitor develops superior technology or cost-effective alternatives to our kits and other products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We believe that customers in the market for pre-analytical solutions and assay technologies display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product. Therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to customers who have purchased products from competitors. To the extent we are unable to be the first to develop and supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. Reduction in research and development budgets and government funding may result in reduced sales. Our customers include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and government and private laboratories. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets of these researchers and their organizations for applications in which our products are used could have a significant affect on the demand for our products. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities and institutional budgetary policies. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in life sciences research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions or government and private laboratories. In addition, short term changes in administrative, regulatory or purchasing-related procedures can create uncertainties or other impediments which can contribute to lower sales. 10 Table of Contents In recent years, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have undergone substantial restructuring and consolidation. Additional mergers or corporate consolidations in the pharmaceutical industry could cause us to lose existing customers and potential future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our sales have been to researchers, universities, government laboratories and private foundations whose funding is dependent upon grants from government agencies, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies. Although the level of research funding has increased during the past several years, we cannot assure you that this trend will continue. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. The predictability of our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial budget proposals. Also, government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and other government agencies that fund research and development activities. A reduction in government funding for the NIH or other government research agencies could seriously and negatively impact our business. We may encounter delays in receipt, or limit in amount, of some European reimbursement approvals and public health funding, which will impact our ability to grow revenues in these markets. Outside the U.S., third-party payors are often reluctant to reimburse healthcare providers for the use of medical tests that involve new technology or novel diagnostic information. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly limiting reimbursement coverage for medical diagnostic products and, in many instances, are exerting pressure on diagnostic product suppliers to reduce their prices. Because each third-party payor individually approves reimbursement, obtaining such approvals is a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of each of our products for which we seek reimbursement to each payor separately with no assurance that such approval will be obtained. This process can delay the broad market introduction of new products and could have a negative effect on our revenues and operating results. As a result, outside the U.S., third-party reimbursement may not be consistently available or financially adequate to cover the cost of our products. This could limit our ability to sell our products, cause us to reduce the prices of our products or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. We heavily rely on air cargo carriers and other overnight logistics services. Our customers within the scientific research markets typically do not keep a significant inventory of QIAGEN products and consequently require overnight delivery of purchases. As such, we heavily rely on air cargo carriers such as DHL, UPS, FedEx and Panalpina. If overnight services are suspended or delayed and other delivery carriers cannot provide satisfactory services, customers may suspend a significant amount of work requiring nucleic acid purification. If there are no adequate delivery alternatives available, sales levels could be negatively affected. We depend on suppliers for materials used to manufacture our products and if shipments from these suppliers are delayed or interrupted, we may be unable to manufacture our products. We buy materials for our products from many suppliers and are not dependent on any one supplier or group of suppliers for our business as a whole. However, key components of certain products, including certain instrumentation components and chemicals, are available only from a single source. If supplies from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, we may not be able to obtain these materials timely or in sufficient quantities or qualities in order to produce certain products, and our sales levels could be negatively affected. We rely on collaborative commercial relationships to develop some of our products. Our long-term business strategy has included entering into strategic alliances and marketing and distribution arrangements with academic, corporate and other partners relating to the development, commercialization, 11 Table of Contents marketing and distribution of certain of our existing and potential products. We may not continue to be able to negotiate such collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms, and such relationships may not be scientifically or commercially successful. In addition, we may not be able to maintain such relationships and our collaborative partners may not pursue or develop competing products or technologies, either on their own or in collaboration with others. Doing business internationally creates certain risks for our business. Our business involves operations in several countries outside of the United States. Our consumable manufacturing facilities are located in Germany, China, Sweden and the United States, and our instrumentation facilities are located in Switzerland and Australia. We also have established sales subsidiaries in numerous countries, including the United States, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, France, Switzerland, Australia, Canada, Austria, The Netherlands, Sweden, Italy, Hong Kong, Singapore, Turkey, Korea, Malaysia, China, Spain, Brazil and Mexico. In addition, our products are sold through independent distributors serving more than 40 other countries. Conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. We have invested heavily in computerized information systems in order to manage more efficiently the widely dispersed components of our operations. We use SAP as our business information system to integrate most of our subsidiaries in the Americas, Europe and Japan. Our operations are also subject to other risks inherent in international business activities, such as general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, overlap of different tax structures, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, and longer accounts receivable payment cycles in certain countries. Other risks associated with international operations include import and export licensing requirements, trade restrictions, exchange controls and changes in tariff and freight rates. As a result of these conditions, an inability to successfully manage our international operations could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We have made investments in and are expanding our business into emerging markets and regions, which exposes us to new risks. Recently, we have expanded our business into emerging markets in Asia and South America, and we expect to continue to focus on growing our business in these regions. In addition to the currency and international operation risks described above, our international operations are subject to a variety of risks including those, arising out of the economy, political outlook and language and cultural barriers in countries where we have operations or do business. In many of these emerging markets, we may be faced with several risks that are more significant than in the other countries in which we have a history of doing business. These risks include economies that may be dependent on only a few products and are therefore subject to significant fluctuations, weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments, privatization or other government actions affecting the flow of goods and currency. In conducting our business, we move products from one country to another and may provide services in one country from a subsidiary located in another country. Accordingly, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in customs and tax regimes that may have significant negative impacts on our financial condition and operating results. Our business in countries with a history of corruption and transactions with foreign governments increase the risks associated with our international activities. As we operate and sell internationally, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in countries known to experience corruption. Further international expansion may involve more exposure to such practices. Our activities in these 12 Table of Contents countries creates the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may not prove to be effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could be severe, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends on the continued employment of our key personnel, any of whom we may lose at any time. Our senior management consists of an Executive Committee comprised of our most senior executives responsible for core functions, the Chairman of which is Mr. Peer Schatz, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Schatz or any of our Managing Directors could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, although we have not experienced any difficulties attracting or retaining key management and scientific staff, our ability to recruit and retain qualified skilled personnel will also be critical to our success. Due to the intense competition for experienced scientists from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic and other research institutions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel on acceptable terms. Our planned activities will also require additional personnel, including management, with expertise in areas such as manufacturing and marketing, and the development of such expertise by existing management personnel. The inability to recruit such personnel or develop such expertise by existing personnel could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our business may require substantial additional capital, which we may not be able to obtain on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our future capital requirements and level of expenses will depend upon numerous factors, including the costs associated with: • marketing, sales and customer support efforts; • research and development activities; • expansion of our facilities; • consummation of possible future acquisitions of technologies, products or businesses; • demand for our products and services; and • repayment of refinancing of debt. We currently anticipate that our short-term capital requirements will be satisfied by the results of operations. However, we have outstanding loan facilities at December 31, 2008 of approximately $500.0 million, of which $25.0 million is due in July 2009, $50.0 million will become due in July 2010, $75.0 million will become due in July 2011, and $350.0 million will become due in July 2012. As of December 31, 2008, we also had additional long-term debt obligations of $445.0 million, of which $145.0 million becomes due in July 2011 and $300.0 million becomes due in November 2012. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2008, we have capital lease obligations, including the current portion, of $32.7 million, that expire in various years through 2018. To the extent that our existing resources are insufficient to fund our activities, we may need to raise funds through public or private debt or equity financings. Such additional funds may not be available or, if available, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to reduce expenditures for research and development, production or marketing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. 13 Table of Contents An impairment of goodwill and intangible assets could reduce our earnings. At December 31, 2008, our consolidated balance sheet reflected approximately $1.2 billion of goodwill and approximately $640.3 million of intangible assets. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles generally require us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. Long-lived assets, such as intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets were impaired, we would be required to take an immediate charge to earnings. Our strategic equity investments may result in losses. We have made and may continue to make strategic investments in complementary businesses as the opportunities arise. We periodically review the carrying value of these investments for impairment, considering factors, such as the most recent stock transactions, book values from the most recent financial statements, and forecasts and expectations of the investee. The results of these valuations may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. Estimating the fair value of non-marketable equity investments in life science companies is inherently subjective. If actual events differ from our assumptions and other than temporary unfavorable fluctuations in the valuations of the investments are indicated, it could require a write-down of the investment. This could result in future charges on our earnings that could materially impact our results of operations. It is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits from these strategic investments. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our business. Since we currently market our products in over 40 countries throughout the world, a significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency. As a result, fluctuations in value, relative to the U.S. dollar, of the currencies in which we conduct our business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses arising from normal business operations are charged against earnings in the period when incurred. We hedge a portion of the anticipated cash flow that we expect to exchange into other currencies, subject to our short-term financing needs. Due to the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. While we engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions to manage our foreign currency exposure, there can be no assurance that our hedging strategy will adequately protect our operating results from the effects of future exchange rate fluctuations. We have a significant amount of long-term debt which may adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt which carries with it significant debt service obligations. A high level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt or that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to repay or refinance such debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, we may have to delay or curtail our research and development programs. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to make required payments on our debt; • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. 14 Table of Contents The time and expense needed to obtain regulatory approval and respond to changes in regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to commercially distribute our products and generate revenue therefrom. We and our customers operate in a highly regulated environment characterized by continuous changes in the governing regulatory framework. Genetic research activities as well as products commonly referred to as “genetically engineered,” such as certain food and therapeutic products, are subject to governmental regulation in most developed countries, especially in the major markets for pharmaceutical and diagnostic products (i.e., the European Union, the United States, and Japan). In the recent past, several highly publicized scientific successes (most notably in the areas of genomic research and “cloning”) have stirred a public debate in which ethical, philosophical and religious arguments have been raised against an unlimited expansion of genetic research and the use of products developed thereby. As a result of this debate, some key countries might increase the existing regulatory barriers; this, in turn, could adversely affect the demand for our products and prevent us from fulfilling our growth expectations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any future changes of applicable regulations will not require further expenditures or an alteration, suspension or liquidation of our operations in certain areas, or even in their entirety. Changes in the existing regulations or adoption of new requirements or policies could adversely affect our ability to sell our approved products or to seek to introduce new products in other countries around the world. Sales volumes of certain products in development may be dependent on commercial sales by us or by purchasers of our diagnostic and pharmaceutical products, which will require pre-clinical studies, clinical trials and other regulatory clearance. Such trials will be subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, international agencies and agencies in other countries with comparable responsibilities. These trials involve substantial uncertainties and could impact customer demand for our products. In addition, certain products, especially our products intended for use in in vitro diagnostics applications, are dependent on regulatory or other clearance. For example, since the European Union Directive 98/79/EC on in vitro diagnostic medical devices, or EU-IvD-D, went into effect on December 7, 2003, all products and kits which are used for in vitro diagnostic applications must be compliant with this directive. In addition to high-risk products such as HIV testing systems (list A of Annex II of the directive) or blood glucose testing systems (list B of Annex II of the directive), nucleic acid purification products which are used in diagnostic workflows are affected by this regulatory framework. The major goals of this directive are to standardize the diagnostic procedures within the European Union, to increase reliability of diagnostic analysis and to enhance patients’ safety through the highest level of product safety. These goals are expected to be achieved by the enactment of a large number of mandatory regulations for product development, production, quality control and life cycle surveillance. Our failing to obtain any required clearance or approvals may significantly damage our business in such segments. Additionally, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with laws and regulations in the future, and changes or additions to existing laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. The key products and product candidates we acquired in our acquisition of Digene are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Governmental bodies in other countries also have medical device approval regulations which are becoming more extensive. Such regulations govern the majority of the commercial activities previously performed by Digene (which are now performed by us), including the indications for which these products can be used, product development, product testing, product labeling, product storage, use of these products with other products and the manufacturing, advertising and promotion of these products for the approved indications. Compliance with these regulations is expensive and time-consuming. Certain of our HPV test products were the first to obtain approval for regulated applications for HPV testing in the United States and in many countries in Europe, which adds to our expense and increases the degree of regulatory review and oversight. The expense of submitting regulatory approval applications in multiple countries as compared to our available resources will impact the decisions we make about entering new markets. 15 Table of Contents Each medical device that we wish to distribute commercially in the United States will likely require either 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval from the FDA prior to marketing the device for in vitro-diagnostic use. Clinical trials related to our regulatory submissions take years to execute and are a significant expense. The 510(k) clearance pathway usually takes from three to twelve months, but can take longer. The pre-market approval pathway is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain and can take from one to three years, or even longer. It took more than four years to receive pre-market approval to offer our current generation HPV test product to test for the presence of HPV in women with equivocal Pap test results and pre-market approval to use our HPV Test as a primary adjunctive cervical cancer screening test to be performed in conjunction with the Pap test for women age 30 and older. The regulatory time span increases our costs to develop new products and increases the risk that we will not succeed in introducing or selling new products in the United States. Our cleared or approved devices, including our diagnostic tests and related equipment, are subject to numerous post-market requirements. We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. If the FDA determines that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as fines, injunctions and civil penalties, recall or seizure of our products, operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production, denial of our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of product candidates, withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval already granted and criminal prosecution. Any enforcement action by the FDA may also affect our ability to commercially distribute these products in the United States. Risk of price controls is a threat to our profitability. The ability of many of our customers to successfully market their products depends in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of these products is available from governmental health administrations, private health insurers and other organizations. Governmental and other third-party payors are increasingly seeking to contain healthcare costs and to reduce the price of medical products and services. Therefore, the biotechnology, diagnostics and pharmaceutical industries are exposed to the potential risk of price controls by these entities. If there are not adequate reimbursement levels, the commercial success of our customers and, hence, our self, could be adversely affected. Our business exposes us to potential liability. The marketing and sale of our products and services for certain applications entail a potential risk of product liability, and, although we are not currently subject to any material product liability claims, product liability claims may be brought against us in the future. Further, there can be no assurance that our products will not be included in unethical, illegal or inappropriate research or applications, which may in turn put us at risk of litigation. We currently carry product liability insurance coverage, which is limited in scope and amount, but which we believe is currently appropriate for our purposes. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain such insurance at reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, or that such insurance will be adequate to protect us against any or all potential claims or losses. We are subject to various laws and regulations generally applicable to businesses in the different jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws and regulations applicable to the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. We do not expect compliance with such laws to have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Although we believe that our procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could have a material adverse effect on us. 16 Table of Contents Our holding company structure makes us dependent on the operations of our subsidiaries. We were incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands as a public limited liability company (naamloze venootschap) and we are organized as a holding company. Currently, our material assets are the outstanding shares of our subsidiaries. We, therefore, are dependent upon payments, dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries for funds to pay our operating and other expenses and to pay future cash dividends or distributions, if any, to holders of our Common Shares. Dividends or distributions by subsidiaries to us in a currency other than the U.S. dollar may result in a loss upon a subsequent conversion or disposition of such foreign currency, including a subsequent conversion into U.S. dollars. Our Common Shares may have a volatile public trading price. The market price of the Common Shares since our initial public offering in September 1996 has increased significantly and been highly volatile. In the last two fiscal years, the closing price of our Common Shares has ranged from a high of $23.55 to a low of $12.91 on the NASDAQ, and a high of EUR 16.24 to a low of EUR 10.04 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. In addition to overall stock market fluctuations, factors which may have a significant impact on the market price of the Common Shares include: • announcements of technological innovations or the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • developments in our relationships with collaborative partners; • quarterly variations in our operating results or those of companies related to us; • changes in government regulations or patent laws; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • developments in government spending for life sciences related research; and • general market conditions relating to the diagnostics, applied testing, pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market for technology-based companies and that have not necessarily been related to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares. Holders of our Common Shares will not receive dividend income. We have not paid cash dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Common Shares for the foreseeable future. Although we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends, any cash dividends paid in a currency other than the U.S. dollar will be subject to the risk of foreign currency transaction losses. Investors should not invest in our Common Shares if they are seeking dividend income; the only return that may be realized through investing in our Common Shares is through the appreciation in value of such shares. Future sales of our Common Shares could adversely affect our stock price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our Common Shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of the Common Shares. Under Dutch law, a company can issue shares up to its authorized share capital provided for in its articles of association. Pursuant to our Articles of Association as amended on October 11, 2007, our authorized share capital amounts to EUR 9.0 million, divided into 410.0 million Common Shares, 40.0 million financing preference shares and 450.0 million preference shares, with all shares having a EUR 0.01 par value. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding 197.8 million Common Shares plus 12.2 million additional shares reserved for issuance upon 17 Table of Contents exercise or release of outstanding stock options and awards, of which 9.6 million were vested. A total of approximately 17.9 million Common Shares are reserved and available for issuances under our stock plans, including those shares subject to outstanding stock options and awards. All of our outstanding Common Shares are freely saleable except shares held by our affiliates, which are subject to certain limitations on resale. Additionally, holders of notes issued by QIAGEN Finance (Luxembourg) S.A. and QIAGEN Euro Finance (Luxembourg) S.A. are entitled to convert their notes into approximately 26.5 million Common Shares, subject to adjustments in certain cases. Provisions of our Articles of Association and Dutch law and an option we have granted may make it difficult to replace or remove management and may inhibit or delay a takeover. Our Articles of Association, or Articles, provide that our shareholders may only suspend or dismiss our managing and supervisory directors against their wishes with a vote of two-thirds of the votes cast if such votes represent more than 50% of the outstanding Common Shares unless the proposal was made by the joint meeting of the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board in which case a simple majority is sufficient. They also provide that if the members of our Supervisory Board and our Managing Board have been nominated by the joint meeting of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board, shareholders may only overrule this nomination with a vote of two-thirds of the votes cast if such votes represent more than 50% of the outstanding Common Shares. Certain other provisions of our Articles allow us, under certain circumstances, to prevent a third party from obtaining a majority of the voting control of our Common Shares by issuing preference shares. Pursuant to our Articles and the resolution adopted by our General Meeting on June 16, 2004, QIAGEN’s Supervisory Board is entitled to resolve to issue Preference Shares in case of an intended take-over of our Company by (i) any person who alone or with one or more other persons, directly or indirectly, have acquired or given notice of an intent to acquire (beneficial) ownership of an equity stake which in aggregate equals 20% or more of our share capital then outstanding or (ii) an “adverse person” as determined by the Supervisory Board. If the Supervisory Board opposes an intended take-over and authorizes the issuance of preference shares, the bidder may withdraw its bid or enter into negotiations with the Managing Board and/or Supervisory Board and agree on a higher bid price for our shares. In 2004, we granted an option to the Stichting Preferente Aandelen QIAGEN (the “Foundation” (Stichting)), subject to the conditions described in the paragraph above, which allows the Foundation to acquire preference shares from us. The option enables the Foundation to acquire such number of preference shares as equals the number of our outstanding Common Shares at the time of the relevant exercise of the right less one share. When exercising the option and exercising its voting rights on such shares, the Foundation must act in our interest and the interests of our stakeholders. The purpose of the Foundation option is to prevent or delay a change of control that would not be in the best interests of us and our stakeholders. An important restriction on the Foundation’s ability to prevent or delay a change of control is that issuing (preference or other) protective shares enabling the Foundation to exercise 30% or more of the voting rights without the obligation to make a mandatory offer for all shares held by the remaining shareholders, is only allowed after a public offer has been announced by a third party. In addition, the holding of such a block of shares by the Foundation is restricted to two years and as a consequence, the size of the protective stake will need to be decreased below the 30% voting rights threshold before the two year period lapses. United States civil liabilities may not be enforceable against us. We are incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands and substantial portions of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, certain members of our Managing and Supervisory Boards and our officers and certain experts named herein reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such other persons, or to enforce outside the U.S. judgments obtained against such persons in U.S. courts, in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, rights predicated upon the 18 Table of Contents U.S. securities laws. There is no treaty between the United States and The Netherlands for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws, would not be directly enforceable in The Netherlands. However, if the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered brings a new suit in a competent court in The Netherlands, such party may submit to the Dutch court the final judgment which has been rendered in the United States. If the Dutch court finds that the jurisdiction of the federal or state court in the United States has been based on grounds which are internationally acceptable and that proper legal procedures have been observed, the Dutch court will, in principle, give binding effect to the final judgment which has been rendered in the United States unless such judgment contravenes Dutch principles of public policy. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance that U.S. investors will be able to enforce against us, members of our Managing or Supervisory Boards, officers or certain experts named herein who are residents of The Netherlands or countries other than the United States any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the federal securities laws. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us, the members of our Managing or Supervisory Boards, our officers or certain experts named herein in an original action predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in The Netherlands against us or such members, officers or experts, respectively. 