ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Some of the information in this Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “continue” and similar words. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they: (1) discuss our future expectations; (2) contain projections of our future operating results or financial condition; or (3) state other “forward-looking” information. However, we may not be able to predict future events accurately. The risk factors listed in this section, as well as any cautionary language in this Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K could materially and adversely affect our business. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. GENERAL BUSINESS RISKS Our Quarterly Results are Unpredictable and May Fluctuate Significantly Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to the unpredictably of our revenue components. Product revenue. It is difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of product revenue, because sales of products fluctuate based upon demand by our customers, which is difficult to predict. We generally ship customer orders as we receive them, and, therefore, we have no meaningful backlog of product orders. Services revenue. It is difficult for us to predict when we will receive services contracts from new and existing customers and when we will deliver the related services under those contracts. Royalty revenue. It is also difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of DSL chipset royalty revenue. Royalties are typically recognized in the quarter when we receive a report from a customer detailing sales and royalties due from the prior quarter. Royalties depend upon customer revenues which can be affected by factors beyond our ability to control or assess in advance. These factors include our customers’ ability to generate sales and fluctuating sales volumes and prices of products containing our technology. Our business is subject to a variety of risks, which could materially adversely affect quarterly and annual operating results, including: ● market acceptance of our products; ● fluctuations in the demand for our products; ● competitive pressures resulting in lower product revenues; ● the loss of a significant OEM or system integrator customer relationship; ● the loss by one of our OEM customers or one of its significant customers; ● the termination of a significant services project by a customer; ● announcements or introductions of new technologies or products by us or our competitors; ● delays or problems in the introduction or performance of enhancements or of future generations of our technology; ● failures or problems in our hardware or software products; ● pricing pressure from our competitors in the markets in which we compete; ● delays in the adoption of new industry standards or changes in market perception of the value of new or existing standards; ● personnel changes, particularly those involving engineering, technical, sales and marketing personnel; ● costs associated with protecting our intellectual property; ● the potential that customers could fail to make payments under their agreements with us; ● new laws, changes to existing laws, or regulatory developments; and ● general economic trends and other factors. 13 As a result of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our revenue levels and operating results are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on our quarterly revenue and operating results to predict our future performance. We Have Experienced Net Losses We had operating and net losses in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, and 2005, and operating losses in 2006, 2007, 2009, and 2010. We may experience losses in the future if the markets in which we participate decline, if our customers do not purchase our products in sufficient volumes, or if our royalty revenue declines. We Continue to Receive DSL Chipset Royalty Revenue; However Future Royalty Revenue May Decline Because of Factors That Are Beyond Our Control We sold substantially all of the assets associated with our DSL chipset licensing product line to Lantiq in 2009. Under the terms of our agreements with Lantiq, we continue to receive royalties for DSL chipsets Lantiq sells. We also continue to derive royalties from Ikanos as our Ikanos agreement remained in effect after the sale to Lantiq. Future royalties we may receive from Lantiq and Ikanos are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including: ● The competitiveness of DSL chipsets offered by Lantiq and Ikanos and the willingness of their customers to purchase DSL chipsets from them; ● The promotional and marketing efforts of Lantiq and Ikanos; and ● DSL market risks in general, including: i) industry wide chipset demand; and ii) competitive pressures and cyclical demand for DSL chipsets, which may result in reduced average selling prices and channel inventory build-up. Any or all of these factors may cause our royalty revenue to decline in the future. Our Business is Subject to Rapid Technological Change The biometrics, imaging, and DSL service assurance industries are characterized by rapid technological change and uncertainty. In these industries, new generations of products are introduced regularly and evolutionary improvements to existing products are required. Therefore, we face risks that others could introduce competing technologies and products that render our technologies and products less desirable or obsolete. Also, the announcement of new technologies and products could cause: i) our customers to delay purchasing our products; or ii) our customers’ customers to delay purchasing OEM products that incorporate our products. Either of these events could seriously harm our business. We expect that our business will depend to a significant extent on our ability to introduce new generations of products as well as new technologies and products that keep pace with changes in these industries. We must continually devote significant engineering resources to achieving technical innovations and product developments. These developments are complex and require long development cycles. Moreover, we may have to make substantial investments in technological innovations and product developments before we can determine their commercial viability. We may lack sufficient financial resources to fund future development. Revenue from technological innovations, even if successfully developed, may not be sufficient to recoup the costs of development. Our Intellectual Property is Subject to Limited Protection Because we are a technology provider, our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others is critical to our success. We regard our technology as proprietary. Our patent portfolio includes approximately 235 U.S. and foreign patents as well as approximately 219 pending patent applications. We also rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark law and non-disclosure agreements to protect our unpatented intellectual property. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization. 14 We typically work closely with our customers, who may also be potential competitors, and provide them with proprietary know-how. Although our agreements contain non-disclosure provisions and other terms protecting our proprietary know-how and technology rights, it is possible that, despite these precautions, some of our customers might obtain from us proprietary information that they could use to compete with us in the marketplace. Although we intend to defend our intellectual property as necessary, the steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation. In the future, we may be involved in legal action to enforce our intellectual property rights relating to our patents, copyrights or trade secrets. Any such litigation could be costly and time-consuming for us, even if we were to prevail. Moreover, even if we are successful in protecting our proprietary information, our competitors may independently develop technologies substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. The misappropriation of our technology or the development of competitive technology could seriously harm our business. Our technology, software or hardware may infringe the intellectual property rights of others. A large and increasing number of participants in the technology industry, including companies known as non-practicing entities or NPEs, have applied for or obtained patents. Some of these patent holders have demonstrated a readiness to commence litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. Third parties may assert patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. In the past, we have received claims from other companies that our technology infringes their patent rights. Intellectual property rights can be uncertain and can involve complex legal and factual questions. We may infringe the proprietary rights of others, which could result in significant liability for us. If we were found to have infringed any third party’s patents, we could be subject to substantial damages or an injunction preventing us from conducting our business. Our Business May Be Adversely Affected By Our Use of Open Source Software The software industry is making increasing use of open source software in the development of products. We also integrate certain open source software components from third parties into our software. Open source licenses may require that the software code in those components or the software into which they are integrated be freely accessible under open source terms. While we take precautions to protect open source software, we cannot exclude the possibility that third-party claims may require us to make freely accessible under open source terms a product of ours or non-Aware software upon which we depend. If we were required to make our software freely available, our business could be seriously harmed. Our Business May Be Affected by Government Regulations Extensive regulation by federal, state, and foreign regulatory agencies could adversely affect us in ways that are difficult for us to predict. In addition, our business may also be adversely affected by: i) the imposition of tariffs, duties and other import restrictions on components we purchase from non-domestic suppliers; or ii) by the imposition of export restrictions on products we sell internationally. Changes in current or future laws or regulations, in the United States or elsewhere, could seriously harm our business. Adverse Economic Conditions Could Harm Our Business Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including recessions, inflation, turmoil in financial markets, or other changes in economic conditions, could harm our business, results of operations, and financial conditions as a result of: ● reduced demand for our products or our customers’ products that incorporate our technology; ● increased risk of order cancellations or delays; ● increased pressure on the prices for our products or our customers’ products that incorporate our technology; ● greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; and ● risks to our liquidity, including the possibility that we might not have access to our cash when needed. 15 We are unable to predict the timing, duration, and severity of any such adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, but the longer the duration, the greater the risks we face in operating our business. We Must Make Judgments in the Process of Preparing Our Financial Statements We prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and certain critical accounting policies that are relevant to our business. The application of these principles and policies requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. In the event that judgments and estimates we make are incorrect, we may have to change them, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Moreover, accounting standards have been subject to rapid change and evolving interpretations by accounting standards setting organizations over the past few years. The implementation of new standards requires us to interpret and apply them appropriately. If our current interpretations or applications are later found to be incorrect, our financial position and results of operations could be materially affected. If We are Unable to Maintain Effective Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting, Investors Could Lose Confidence In The Reliability of Our Financial Statements, Which Could Result In a Decline in the Price of Our Common Stock As a public company, we are required to enhance and test our financial, internal and management control systems to meet obligations imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and the audit opinion of our independent registered accounting firm as to the effectiveness of our controls is required in connection with our filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are unable to identify, implement and conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or if our independent auditors are unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may also uncover weaknesses or other issues with these controls that could also result in adverse investor reaction. Our Stock Price May Be Extremely Volatile Volatility in our stock price may negatively affect the price you may receive for your shares of common stock and increases the risk that we could be the subject of costly securities litigation. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially and could continue to fluctuate based on a variety of factors, including: ● quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; ● changes in future financial guidance that we may provide to investors and public market analysts; ● changes in our relationships with our customers; ● announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our customers or our competitors; ● changes in the growth rates of the markets in which we participate as well as investor perceptions regarding the investment opportunity that companies participating in the those markets afford them; ● changes in earnings estimates by public market analysts; ● key personnel losses; ● sales of our common stock; ● our stock repurchase activities; ● corporate actions we may initiate, such as spin-offs or other corporate reorganizations; and ● developments or announcements with respect to industry standards, patents or proprietary rights. In addition, the equity markets have experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many high technology companies and that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 16 BIOMETRICS & IMAGING PRODUCT LINE RISKS Our Biometrics & Imaging Product Line Faces Intense Competition The markets for our biometrics and imaging products and services are competitive and uncertain. Many of our biometric software competitors have significantly greater financial, technological, marketing and personnel resources than we do. We also face intense competition from internal development teams within potential customers and from low cost competitors in developing and other foreign countries. We must convince potential customers to purchase products and services from us rather than develop software or perform services internally. Furthermore, customers, who have already purchased from us, may choose to stop purchasing our software and develop their own software. In addition, announcements or introductions of new technologies or products by our competitors may adversely affect our business. Biometrics & Imaging Software Business Risks Our biometrics and imaging software business is subject to a variety of additional risks, which could materially adversely affect our revenue and operating results, including: ● market acceptance of our biometric and imaging technologies and products; ● changes in contracting practices of government or law enforcement agencies; ● the failure of the biometrics and imaging markets to continue to grow; ● delays or problems in the introduction or performance of enhancements or of future generations of our technology; ● reduced government funding of biometrics programs by the United States and foreign governments; ● low cost products from competitors in developing and other foreign countries; ● failures or problems in our biometrics and imaging software products; ● delays in the adoption of new industry biometric standards or changes in market perception of the value of new or existing standards; ● growth of proprietary biometric systems which do not conform to industry standards; ● competitive pressures resulting in lower software product revenues; ● the availability of free open source software that competes with our software products; ● personnel changes, particularly those involving engineering, technical and sales and marketing personnel; ● the ability to identify and hire qualified engineering, technical and sales and marketing personnel; ● costs associated with protecting our intellectual property; ● litigation by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights; ● the potential that customers could fail to make payments under their current contracts; ● new laws, changes to existing laws, or regulatory developments; and ● general economic trends and other factors. Biometrics Services Business Risks Our biometrics services business is subject to additional risks, which could materially adversely affect our revenue and operating results, including: ● our ability to structure and price engineering services contracts in a manner that is consistent with our business model; ● our ability to structure ourselves to successfully bid on U.S. government contracts and meet the requirements of U.S. contracting rules and regulations; ● our ability to deliver contract milestones: i) in a timely and cost efficient manner, and ii) in a form and condition acceptable to customers; ● the risk that customers could terminate projects; and ● the potential that customers could fail to make payments under their service contracts. 17 DSL SERVICE ASSURANCE PRODUCT LINE RISKS Preface to DSL Service Assurance Product Line Risks. Our DSL service assurance product line consists of hardware and software products, which have different risk characteristics. The risk factors associated with hardware and software products are delineated separately below. DSL SERVICE ASSURANCE HARDWARE PRODUCT RISKS Our Decision To Terminate The Production and Sale of DSL Service Assurance Hardware Products Exposes Us to Certain Exit Costs, Obligations and Risks On January 18, 2012, our Board of Directors approved the shutdown of Aware’s DSL service assurance hardware product line. We will continue to build and ship DSL service assurance hardware products to fulfill customer orders that were received as of the date of the shutdown notice. We expect to conclude hardware shipments on or about June 30, 2012. While we have developed an exit plan to conduct an orderly exit from this product line, we may be exposed to certain risks, some of which may be difficult to predict. These potential risks may include, but are not limited to, the following: ● The risk that we may be unable to fulfill last time purchase rights under customer contracts; ● The risk that we may have to provide post termination warranty and customer support; ● The risk associated with employee terminations, including severance costs; ● The risk that a portion of our inventory may be excess or obsolete; and ● The risk that hardware customers may not pay their invoices to us. Should any of the risks described above come to fruition, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. DSL SERVICE ASSURANCE SOFTWARE PRODUCT RISKS Our Success as a Supplier of DSL Service Assurance Software Products Depends on Our Ability to Sell Our Line Diagnostics Product to DSL Service Providers Our two principal DSL service assurance software products are: i) our Line Diagnostics Platform (“LDP”) product; and ii) our Dr. DSL product. We believe that our success as a supplier of DSL service assurance software depends on our ability to sell our LDP software product to DSL service providers. If we fail to sell LDP in sufficient volumes by obtaining new DSL service providers or maintaining current customer relationships, our business could be seriously harmed. Our DSL Service Assurance Software Products, and LDP in Particular, Face Intense Competition The DSL service assurance market into which we sell our DSL service assurance software products is competitive. In particular, we face intense competition from several competitors who compete against our LDP product. These competitors have more mature product offerings, larger market shares, and larger sales organizations than we do. Our ability to effectively compete against these competitors and others who may enter the market depends in large part on our ability: ● to develop our LDP product so that it can compete against product offerings from Alcatel, Assia, and others; ● to market and sell LDP to DSL service providers; ● to scale LDP so that it operates effectively in DSL service provider networks; and ● to provide effective customer service and support. 18 We can give no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in this market or that competitive pressures will not seriously harm our business. There Are a Limited Number of Customers to Which We Can Sell Our DSL Service Assurance Software Products, Therefore Our Success Depends on a Small Number of Customers There are a relatively limited number of DSL service providers to which we can sell our LDP software product in a manner consistent with our business model. Such customers are limited to telephone company service providers who: i) maintain DSL networks and ii) wish to use software solutions instead of hardware solutions to maintain those networks. Once a service provider decides to adopt a DSL service assurance software product from a supplier, they generally deploy that one solution instead of multiple solutions from multiple vendors thereby reducing the possibility of future sales to that customer. In addition, our current and prospective service provider customers may use their superior size and bargaining power to demand terms that are unfavorable to us. There are also a limited number of OEM suppliers to which we can sell our Dr. DSL software. If we fail to maintain relationships with our current OEM customers or fail to establish relationships with new customers, our business could be seriously harmed. In addition, our current and prospective OEM customers may use their superior size and bargaining power to demand terms that are unfavorable to us. The Success of Our DSL Service Assurance Software Products, and LDP in Particular, Depends On Our Ability to Develop Commercially Viable Products in a Timely Fashion Our success in developing and introducing new and enhanced DSL service assurance products depends on the ability of our engineering organization to design and develop such products. Because of the complexity of our software products, it may take us a significant amount of time to develop new products. Moreover, such products must be commercially viable in terms of their features and pricing. If we cannot successfully introduce new commercially viable products on a timely basis, our business could be seriously harmed. If Our DSL Service Assurance Software Products Have Other Quality Problems, Our Business Could Be Harmed If our DSL service assurance software products have actual or perceived reliability, quality, functionality or other problems, we may suffer reduced orders, inability to recognize revenue, delays in collecting accounts receivable, higher service costs, and higher support and related costs among other effects. We believe that the acceptance, timely delivery and customer satisfaction of our DSL service assurance software products is important to our future financial results. As a result, any inability to correct any technical, reliability, or other difficulties or to deliver our products on a timely basis meeting customer requirements could damage our relationships and reputation with current and prospective customers, which would harm our revenues and operating results. 19 PATENT MANAGEMENT PRODUCT LINE RISKS Our Ability to Obtain, Sell, License, or Enforce Patents Could be Affected by New Laws, Regulations or Rules We intend to pursue the license or sale of patents in our patent portfolio. Our patent portfolio includes approximately 235 U.S. and foreign patents as well as approximately 219 pending patent applications. We also have an active program to protect our proprietary technology through the filing of additional patents. New laws, regulations or rules implemented either by Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, foreign patent offices, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders could significantly increase our expenses related to patent prosecution or decrease revenues associated with our patents. There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Be Able To Successfully Monetize Our Patent Assets In September 2010, we announced a possible transaction involving our patent management operations. There can be no assurance as to the timing of a possible transaction with respect to our patent management operations, whether it will ultimately be structured as a spin-off, sale, or license or whether such a transaction will be completed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 20 