Risk Factors If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Market If the market for information and network security solutions does not continue to grow, our business will be adversely affected The market for our products has expanded rapidly, but the market for information and network security solutions may not continue to grow. Continued growth of this market will depend, in large part, upon: n The continued expansion of Internet usage and the number of organizations adopting or expanding intranets. n The ability of their respective infrastructures to support an increasing number of users and services. n The continued development of new and improved services for implementation across the Internet and between the Internet and intranets. n The adoption of data security measures as it pertains to data encryption technologies. If the necessary infrastructure or complementary products and services are not developed in a timely manner and, consequently, the enterprise security, data security, Internet, or intranet markets fail to grow or grow more slowly than we currently anticipate, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Additional details are provided in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point.” We may not be able to successfully compete The market for information and network security solutions is intensely competitive and we expect that competition will continue to increase in the future. Our principal competitors include Cisco Systems, Inc., Fortinet Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc., Secure Computing Corporation, and SonicWALL Inc. We also compete with several other companies, including McAfee, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, and Symantec Corporation, with respect to specific products that we offer, including data security products. Some of our current and potential competitors have various advantages over us, including longer operating histories; access to larger customer bases; significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources; a broader portfolio of products, applications and services; and larger patent and intellectual property portfolios. As a result, they may be able to adapt better than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Furthermore, some of our competitors with more diversified product portfolios may be better able to withstand a reduction in spending on information and network security solutions. In addition, some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, and they have offered, and in the future may offer, their products at lower prices than we do, which may cause us to lose sales or to reduce our prices in response to competition. 6 In addition, consolidation in the markets in which we compete may affect our competitive position. We may not be able to continue competing successfully against our current and future competitors. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share, any of which will materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. The markets in which we compete also include many niche competitors, generally smaller companies at a relatively early stage of operations, which are focused on specific Internet and data security needs. These companies’ specialized focus may enable them to adapt better than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements in their specific areas of focus. In addition, some of these companies can invest relatively large resources on very specific technologies or customer segments. The effect of these companies’ activities in the market may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which will materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Further, vendors of operating system software or networking hardware may enhance their products to include functionality that is currently provided by our products. The widespread inclusion of similar functionality to that which is offered by our software as standard features of operating system software or networking hardware could significantly reduce the marketability of our products, particularly if the quality of such functionality were comparable to that of our products. Furthermore, even if the network or application security functionality provided as standard features by operating systems software or networking hardware is more limited than that of our solutions, a significant number of customers may elect to accept more limited functionality in lieu of purchasing additional solutions. If any of the events described above occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additional details are provided in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point.” If we fail to enhance our existing products, develop or acquire new and more technologically advanced products, or fail to successfully commercialize these products, our business and results of operations will suffer The information and network security industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards in computer hardware and software technology. In particular, the markets for data security, Internet, and intranet applications are rapidly evolving. As a result, we must continually change and improve our products in response to changes in operating systems, application software, computer and communications hardware, networking software, programming tools, and computer language technology. Further, we must continuously improve our products to protect our customers’ data and networks from evolving security threats. Our future operating results will depend upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis; to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers; and to keep pace with technological developments, new competitive product offerings, and emerging industry standards. Our competitors’ introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing products obsolete or unmarketable. While we have been successful in developing, acquiring, and marketing new products and product enhancements that respond to technological change and evolving industry standards, we may not be able to continue to do so. In addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these products, as well as the integration of acquired products. Furthermore, our new products or product enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. In some cases, a new product or product enhancements may negatively affect sales of our existing products. If we do not respond adequately to the need to develop and introduce new products or enhancements of existing products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Additional details are provided in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point” and under the caption “We may not be able to successfully compete” in this Item 3. 7 Product defects may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products and technology Our products are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. They may contain undetected hardware or software errors or defects, especially when new or acquired products are introduced or when new versions are released. In particular, the personal computer hardware environment is characterized by a wide variety of non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. We may need to divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our research and development efforts to address instances of errors or defects. In addition, we may in the future incur costs associated with warranty claims. Our products are used to employ and manage Internet security and protect information, which may be critical to organizations. As a result, the sale and support of our products entails the risk of product liability and related claims. We do not know whether, in the future, we will be subject to liability claims or litigation for damages related to product errors, or will experience delays as a result of these errors. Our sales agreements and product licenses typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability or related claims. In selling our products, we rely primarily on “shrink wrap” licenses that are not signed by the end user, and for this and other reasons, these licenses may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. As a result, the limitation of liability provisions contained in these licenses may not be effective. Although we maintain product liability insurance for most of our products, the coverage limits of these policies may not provide sufficient protection against an asserted claim. If litigation were to arise, it could, regardless of its outcome, result in substantial expense to us, significantly divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and disrupt or otherwise severely impact our relationships with current and potential customers. In addition, if any of our products fails to meet specifications or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in revenues, a loss of existing customers, and difficulty attracting new customers. Risks relating to acquisitions We have made acquisitions in the past and we may make additional acquisitions in the future. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating, and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. In addition, if we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations, and technologies successfully or effectively manage the combined business following the completion of the acquisition. We may also not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: n Unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition. n Incurrence of acquisition-related costs. n Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. 8 n Harm to our existing business relationships with manufacturers, distributors and customers as a result of the acquisition. n The potential loss of key employees. n Use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business. n Use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. n Unrealistic goals or projections for the acquisition. In December 2006, we completed the acquisition of NFR Security, Inc., a U.S. privately held company. In January 2007, we completed a tender offer for the outstanding shares and warrants of Protect Data AB (“Protect Data”), which was a public company listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. As of December 31, 2007, we had acquired the rights to all of the shares and warrants of Protect Data, on a fully diluted basis, and completed the integration of Protect Data into Check Point’s business. Protect Data is the owner of 100% of Pointsec Mobile Technologies AB (“Pointsec”), a leading provider of data security products, and other subsidiaries, as listed below in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point” under the caption “Organizational structure.” Pointsec provides products that are different in nature than our core technologies, including encryption software that helps companies secure data that may be stored on employee laptops, personal computers, smartphones, and personal digital assistants (PDAs). As such, through this acquisition, we entered into a line of business in which we have very limited experience, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in this business. Our operating margins may decline We may experience future fluctuations or declines in operating margins from historical levels due to many factors, including: n Increased competition that results in pressure on us to reduce prices. n Additional investments in the continuing development and expansion of our sales and marketing organization, including the expansion and further reinforcement of our worldwide field organization. n Integration of an acquired business that at the time of acquisition has operating margins lower than ours. n Additional expansion of our research and development organization. n Expected growth in the percentage of revenues that we derive from products incorporating hardware, which have lower operating margins than software products. Our operating margins are likely to fluctuate based on the amount and timing of these and other developments. In addition, if our revenue levels are below expectations, this will likely have an adverse effect on our operating margins, since most of our expenses are not variable in the short term. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate which could cause us to miss expectations about these results and cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline Our revenues from our sales are not consistent from quarter to quarter and we experience some degree of seasonality in our sales. Factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from period to period include: n Changes in customer capital spending budgets and allocations throughout the year. 9 n Seasonal trends in customer purchasing. n Competitive market conditions, including the pricing actions of our customers. n The occurrence of an infrastructure failure resulting in delay of quarter-end purchases of products. n The occurrence of Internet security breaches or threats. n The timing and success of new products and new technologies introduced by us or our competitors. n Regional or global economic and political conditions. n Changes in our operating expenses and extraordinary expenses. n Impairment of goodwill and intangibles. n Our relationships with, and sales through, our channel partners. n Our ability to integrate the technology and operations of acquired businesses with our own business. n Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Unfavorable changes in the factors listed above, many of which are outside of our control, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Historically, our revenues have reflected seasonal fluctuations related to the slowdown in spending activities for the third quarter, and the increased activity related to the year-end purchasing cycles of many users of our products. We believe that we will continue to encounter quarter-to-quarter seasonality. We operate with immaterial backlog. Therefore, the timing and volume of orders within a given period and our ability to fulfill these orders, determine the amount of our revenues within the period. We derive our sales primarily through indirect channels, making it difficult for us to predict revenues because we depend partially on estimates of future sales provided by third parties. In addition, changes in our arrangements with our network of channel partners or in the products they offer, such as our recent introduction of new support programs for our customers, which combines support from our channel partners with back-end support from us, could affect the timing and volume of orders. Furthermore, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenues. If our revenue levels are below expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely affected, since most of our expenses are not variable in the short term. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Due to the factors described above, it is possible that in some future quarter, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. We may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404, which started in connection with our 2006 Annual Report on Form 20-F, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires (i) management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and (ii) a statement by management that its independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, in connection with the filing of the Annual Report on Form 20-F for each fiscal year. We have documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures and have made improvements in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. While our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting resulted in our conclusion that as of December 31, 2007, our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. 10 We depend on our key personnel, including our executive officers, and the failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our business Our future performance depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical, sales and management personnel. None of our key personnel is bound by an employment agreement requiring service for any defined period of time. If we are unable to retain members of our management and key employees, we must successfully manage transition and replacement issues that may result from such departures. For example, as of April 30, 2008, our Chief Financial Officer, Eyal Desheh, will cease to be a full time employee and we are in the process of identifying a new Chief Financial Officer to replace Mr. Desheh. Our future performance also depends on our ability to attract such skilled personnel in the future. Competition for personnel is intense. In order to retain our employees, we provide many of them with cash and stock-based awards that can be realized over time to increase longer-term commitments. We cannot be assured that we can retain our key personnel in the future. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, could make it difficult for us to meet key objectives, such as timely product introductions, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under current U.S., Swedish, and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and, therefore, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees Under current U.S., Swedish, and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce, in whole or in part, agreements that prohibit some of our employees from competing with us or working for our competitors after they cease working for us. It may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. Competitors and others have in the past and may in the future attempt to recruit our employees. While our employees are required to sign standard agreements concerning confidentiality and ownership of inventions, we may not be able to prevent them from working with our competitors and providing their expertise to such companies. If we are unable to enforce covenants not to compete, our competitors may gain access to employees who are knowledgeable about certain of our proprietary information, which could harm our business. We are dependent on a small number of distributors We derive our sales primarily through indirect channels. During 2007, we derived approximately 49% of our sales from our 10 largest distributors, with the largest distributor accounting for approximately 16% of our sales, and the second largest distributor accounting for 14% of our sales. During 2006, these two distributors accounted for approximately 26% of our sales. 11 We expect that a small number of distributors will continue to generate a significant portion of our sales. Furthermore, there has been an industry trend toward consolidation among our distributors, and we expect this trend to continue in the near future, which could further increase our reliance on a small number of distributors for a significant proportion of our sales. If these distributors reduce the amount of their purchases from us, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In 2007, our second largest distributor, Westcon Group agreed to acquire NOXS, the distribution unit of Unit 4 Agresso’s Internet and Security Division. Since NOXS operates in the United Kingdom, Germany, Benelux, France, Ireland, Italy and Austria. Westcon’s recent purchase of NOXS resulted in our sales in Europe being highly dependent on the performance of larger distributors such as Westcon. There is no guarantee that these larger distributors will have the necessary focus, commitment and ability to sell our products. Our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to establish and maintain successful relationships with our distributors. In addition, we rely on these entities to provide many of the training and support services for our products. Accordingly, our success depends in large part on the effective performance of these distributors. Recruiting and retaining qualified distributors and training them in our technology and products requires significant time and resources. Further, we have no long-term contracts or minimum purchase commitments with any of our distributors, and our contracts with these distributors do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to existing and potential distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. Our distributors may choose not to offer our products exclusively or at all. Our failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with distributors would likely materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are dependent on a limited number of product families Currently, we derive most of our revenues from sales of Internet security products primarily under our VPN-1, UTM-1 and related brands, as well as related revenues from software updates, maintenance and other services. We expect this to continue to be the case in the foreseeable future. Following the acquisition of Protect Data, we also began to generate a significant amount of revenue from data security products and associated software updates, maintenance and support services. Such sales of data security products and associated software updates, maintenance and support services accounted for $82.8 million of our revenue in 2007, or 11.3% of our total revenues. Our future growth depends heavily on our ability to effectively develop and sell new and acquired products as well as add new features to existing products. For more details, see “Item 4 – Information on Check Point” and “Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” We incorporate third party technology in our products, which may make us dependent on the providers of these technologies and expose us to potential intellectual property claims. Our products contain certain technology that others license to us. Third party developers or owners of technologies may not be willing to enter into, or renew, license agreements with us regarding technologies that we may wish to incorporate in our products, either on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain licenses to these technologies, we may be at a disadvantage compared with our competitors who are able to license these technologies. In addition, when we do obtain licenses to third party technologies that we did not develop, we may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether the technology infringes the intellectual property rights of others. Our suppliers and licensors may not be required or may not be able to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. 12 We incorporate open source technology in our products which may expose us to liability and have a material impact on our product development and sales Some of our products utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us on varying license structures, including the General Public License. This license and others like it pose a potential risk to products in the event they are inappropriately integrated. In the event that we have not, or do not in the future, properly integrate software that is subject to such licenses into our products, we may be required to disclose our own source code to the public, which could enable our competitors to eliminate any technological advantage that our products may have over theirs. Any such requirement to disclose our source code or other confidential information related to our products could, therefore, materially adversely affect our competitive advantage and impact our business results of operations and financial condition. We are the defendants in various lawsuits, and are also subject to certain governmental proceedings, and participation in litigation and government proceedings can be expensive and disruptive We are the defendants in various lawsuits, including employment-related litigation claims, lease termination claims and other legal proceedings in the normal course of our business. In the past, we received class action complaints, which were then consolidated into one action, alleging violations of the federal securities laws. In January, 2007, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York issued a Final Judgment and Order settling this action for $13 million, which amount was paid by our insurance carrier. We operate our business in various countries and accordingly attempt to utilize an efficient operating model to optimize our tax payments based on the laws in the countries in which we operate. This can cause disputes between us and various tax authorities in different parts of the world. In particular we have disputes with the ITA (“Israeli Tax Authorities”) on matters such as: the usage of funds earned by our approved enterprise for investments outside of Israel, deductibility of employees stock options expenses, percentage of foreign ownership of our shares, taxation of interest earned outside of Israel and deductibility of research and development expenses. There is no assurance that the ITA will accept our positions on these matters or others and in such an event we may record additional tax expenses if these matters are settled for amounts in excess of our current provisions. In particular, on December 27, 2007, following an audit of our 2002 corporate tax return, the Israeli Tax Authority (the “ITA”) disagreed with several of our positions as it pertains to the treatment of taxes. Specifically, this includes our treatment of certain issues relating to cash that is held and managed by our wholly owned Singapore subsidiary. The ITA therefore issued an order classifying the transfer of funds from Check Point to our subsidiary in Singapore as a dividend for purposes of the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, which would result in a tax payment on the funds transferred. The ITA order also contests our position with respect to the deductibility of employee stock options and benefits to which we are entitled to under applicable Israeli law regarding approved enterprise status. The ITA therefore demanded the payment of additional taxes in the aggregate amount of NIS 963 million, which represents approximately $162 million of additional tax plus an additional $84 million for interest in equivalent USD as of the end of 2007. See also “Item 8 – Financial Information” under the caption “Legal proceedings.” Litigation and governmental proceedings can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and can require extensive management attention and resources, regardless of their merit. While we intend to defend the aforementioned matters vigorously, we cannot predict the results of complex legal proceedings, and an unfavorable resolution of a lawsuit or proceeding could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Companies such as ours in the software industry, and other technology industries, are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation as a result of the volatility of their stock prices. As noted above, we have been named as a defendant in this type of litigation in the past. Any litigation of this sort could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights We seek to protect our proprietary technology by relying on a combination of statutory as well as common law copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions as indicated below in the section entitled “Proprietary Rights” in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point.” We have certain patents in the United States and in some other countries, as well as pending patent applications. We cannot guarantee that pending patent applications will be issued, either at all or within the scope of the patent claims that we have submitted. In addition, someone else may challenge our patents and these patents may be found invalid. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar to or better than ours, or may work around any patents issued to us. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, others may copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary. Although we do not know the extent to which there is piracy of our software products, software piracy is a persistent problem. We try to police this type of activity, but it is difficult to do so effectively. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, Israel, or Sweden. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop technology that is similar to our technology. If we are unable to secure, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights, such failure could harm our brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If a third-party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, which could harm our business There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. Third-parties have in the past sent us correspondence regarding their intellectual property and in the future we may receive claims that our products infringe or violate their intellectual property rights. Furthermore, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology or products. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or royalty payments, prevent us from selling our products, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. In addition, we may decide to pay substantial settlement costs and/or licensing fees in connection with any claim or litigation, whether or not successfully asserted against us. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. As such, third-party claims with respect to intellectual property may increase our cost of goods sold or reduce the sales of our products, and may have a material and adverse effect on our business. 14 We are exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with international operations; these risks could increase our costs, reduce future growth opportunities and affect our results of operations We sell our products worldwide, and we book a significant portion of our revenue outside the United States. We intend to continue to expand our international operations, which will require significant management attention and financial resources. In order to continue to expand worldwide, we will need to establish additional operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional channel partners, internationally. To the extent that we are unable to do so effectively, our growth is likely to be limited and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our international revenues and operations subject us to many potential risks inherent in international business activities, including, but not limited to: n Technology import and export license requirements. n Costs of localizing our products for foreign countries, and the lack of acceptance of localized products in foreign countries. n Trade restrictions. n Imposition of or increases in tariffs or other payments on our revenues in these markets. n Changes in regulatory requirements. n Greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property. n Difficulties in managing our overseas subsidiaries and our international operations. n Changes in general economic conditions. n Political instability and civil unrest which could discourage investment and complicate our dealings with governments. n Variety of foreign laws and legal standards. n Expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities. n Difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition. n Differing labor standards. n Potentially adverse tax consequences, including taxation of a portion of our revenues at higher rates than the tax rate that applies to us in Israel. n The introduction of exchange controls and other restrictions by foreign governments. These difficulties could cause our revenues to decline, increase our costs or both. This is also specifically tied to currency exchange rates which has an impact on our financial statements based on currency rate fluctuations. Conditions and changes in the national and global economic and political environments may adversely affect our business and financial results Adverse economic conditions in markets in which we operate can harm our business. If economic growth in the United States and other countries’ economies is slowed, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. This would increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenues on future sales to these customers. Specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices, or weakness in corporate information technology spending, could have a more direct impact on our business. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets deteriorate, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 15 We are controlled by a small number of existing shareholders who may make decisions with which you or others may disagree As of December 31, 2007, our directors and executive officers owned approximately 19.9% of the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares, or 24.5% of our outstanding ordinary shares if the percentage includes options currently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2007 (the exercise price of some of these options is greater than our current share market price). The interests of these shareholders may differ from your interests and present a conflict. If these shareholders act together, they could exercise significant influence over our operations and business strategy. For example, although these shareholders hold considerably less than a majority of our outstanding ordinary shares, they may have sufficient voting power to influence matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election and removal of directors and the approval or rejection of mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, or deprive a shareholder of a possible premium for its ordinary shares as part of a sale of our company. We may be required to indemnify our directors and officers in certain circumstances We have entered into agreements with each of our directors and senior officers to insure, indemnify and exculpate them against some types of claims, subject to dollar limits and other limitations. Subject to Israeli law, these agreements provide that we will indemnify each of these directors and senior officers for any of the following liabilities or expenses that they may incur due to an act performed or failure to act in their capacity as our director or senior officer: n Monetary liability imposed on the director or senior officer in favor of a third party in a judgment, including a settlement or an arbitral award confirmed by a court. n Reasonable legal costs, including attorneys’ fees, expended by a director or senior officer as a result of an investigation or proceeding instituted against the director or senior officer by a competent authority; provided, however, that such investigation or proceeding concludes without the filing of an indictment against the director or senior officer and either: š No financial liability was imposed on the director or senior officer in lieu of criminal proceedings, or š Financial liability was imposed on the director or senior officer in lieu of criminal proceedings, but the alleged criminal offense does not require proof of criminal intent. n Reasonable legal costs, including attorneys’ fees, expended by the director or senior officer or for which the director or senior officer is charged by a court: š In an action brought against the director or senior officer by us, on our behalf or on behalf of a third party, š In a criminal action in which the director or senior officer is found innocent, or 16 š In a criminal action in which the director or senior officer is convicted, but in which proof of criminal intent is not required. Our business and operations are subject to the risks of earthquakes and other natural catastrophic events Our headquarters in the United States, as well as certain of our research and development operations, are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could damage our operations and properties, and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel, where our principal executive offices and our principal research and development facilities are located, may adversely affect our results of operations We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in and surrounding Israel may directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could materially adversely affect our operations. Since October 2000, terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly. Recently, there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, as well as extensive hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon, and significant hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The tax benefits available to us require us to meet several conditions, and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate of 15% for the year ended December 31, 2007 will not change over time as a result of changes in corporate income tax rates or other changes in the tax laws of the various countries in which we operate. We have benefited or currently benefit from a variety of government programs and tax benefits that generally carry conditions that we must meet in order to be eligible to obtain any benefit. If we fail to meet the conditions upon which certain favorable tax treatment is based, we would not be able to claim future tax benefits and could be required to refund tax benefits already received. Additionally, some of these programs and the related tax benefits are available to us for a limited number of years, and these benefits expire from time to time. Any of the following could have a material effect on our overall effective tax rate: n some programs may be discontinued, n we may be unable to meet the requirements for continuing to qualify for some programs, n these programs and tax benefits may be unavailable at their current levels, 17 n upon expiration of a particular benefit, we may not be eligible to participate in a new program or qualify for a new tax benefit that would offset the loss of the expiring tax benefit, or n we may be required to refund previously recognized tax benefits if we are found to be in violation of the stipulated conditions. Additional details are provided in “Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Products” under the caption “Taxes on income”, in “Item 10 – Additional Information” under the caption “Israeli taxation, foreign exchange regulation and investment programs”, and in notes 9 and 10 to our consolidated financial statements. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service Many of our employees in Israel, including members of senior management, are obligated to perform one month (in some cases, more or less) of annual military reserve duty until they reach age 45 and, in the event of a military conflict, could be called to active duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of military service of one or more of our key employees. Military service requirements for our employees could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, prevent a change of control, and negatively impact our share price Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders, and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential acquisition transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. For example, Israeli tax law may subject a shareholder who exchanges his or her ordinary shares for shares in a foreign corporation to taxation before disposition of the investment in the foreign corporation. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore, depress the price of our shares. In addition, our articles of association contain certain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire us, such as the provision which provides that our board of directors may issue preferred shares. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of us, thereby limiting the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares and possibly affecting the price that some investors are willing to pay for our securities. Additional details are provided in “Item 10 – Additional Information” under the caption “Articles of association and Israeli Companies Law – Anti-takeover measures.” Our operations expose us to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our business. Although we have operations throughout the world, the majority of our revenue and approximately 65% of our operating costs in 2007 were denominated in, or linked to, the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, we consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency. However, approximately 35% of our operating costs in fiscal 2007 were incurred outside the United States in other currencies, particularly in Israeli Shekels and Swedish Kronas. Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates between the currencies in which such costs are incurred and the dollar may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, during 2007, the Israel Shekel appreciated against the U.S. dollar, which resulted in a significant increase in the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel, and this trend has continued in early 2008. As a result of this differential, from time to time we may experience increases in the costs of our operations outside the United States, as expressed in dollars, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 18 The majority of our revenue and approximately 56% of our operating costs were in dollars or linked to the dollar in 2007. We do not hedge all of our exposure in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, but rather our policy is to hedge significant net exposures in the major foreign currencies in which we operate. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively limit all of our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. The imposition of exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of assets The performance of the capital markets affects the values of funds that are held in marketable securities. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. Due to recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades the fair value of these investments may decline. Check Point expects that market conditions will continue to fluctuate and that the fair value of our investments may be impacted accordingly. One of our primary market risk exposures is to changes in interest rates. A decline in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on our investment income. In a declining interest rate environment, borrowers may seek to refinance their borrowings at lower rates and, accordingly, prepay or redeem securities we hold more quickly than we initially expected. This action may cause us to reinvest the redeemed proceeds in lower yielding investments. An increase in market interest rates could also have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of our investment portfolio. 