Risk Factors Our future operating results may be affected by various risk factors, many of which are beyond our control. Certain statements included in this Annual Report and the documents incorporated herein by reference may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding potential future net sales, gross profit, net income and liquidity. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “hope,” “plan,” “intend,” “seek,” “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue” or other similar words. Reference is made in particular to the description of our plans and objectives for future operations, assumptions underlying such plans and objectives, and other forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. We caution investors that there can be no assurance that actual results or business conditions will not differ materially from those projected or suggested in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Factors which could cause such results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include those set forth in the risk factors below. As a result, our future success involves a high degree of risk. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind that the risk factors could cause our actual results to differ significantly from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Risks Related to the Growth of Our Business An inability to manage our growth, manage the expansion of our operations, or successfully integrate acquired businesses could adversely affect our business. Our business has grown rapidly, with total net sales increasing to $1,087.4 million in 2010 from $465.8 million in 2006. We have made several acquisitions in recent years, including SABiosciences in December 2009; DxS Ltd. in September 2009; Corbett Life Science Pty. Ltd., or Corbett, in July 2008; and Digene Corporation, or Digene, in July 2007. We intend to identify and acquire other businesses in the future that support our strategy to build on our global leadership position in molecular technologies. The successful integration of acquired businesses requires a significant effort and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance and administration and information technologies. We have also made significant investments to expand our business operations. In January 2009, we purchased land adjacent to our facility in Germany and in August 2009 began a major expansion project to create additional facilities for research and development as well as to expand production capacity. This expansion project is expected to continue through 2011. In addition, we began a project in June 2010 to expand our facility 5 Table of Contents in Germantown, Maryland, for research, production and administrative space, and it is expected to continue into 2012. These expansion projects increase our fixed costs, resulting in higher operational costs in the future that will negatively impact our gross margin and operating income until we fully utilize the additional capacity of these planned facilities. We also continue to upgrade our operating and financial systems and expand the geographic presence of our operations, which has resulted in the hiring of new employees as well as increased responsibilities for both existing and new management personnel. The rapid expansion of our business and the addition of new personnel may place a strain on our management and operational systems. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management to continue to implement and improve our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing and customer support programs, enhance our operational and financial control systems, expand, train and manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisitions successfully, and any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our acquisitions expose us to new risks, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of technologies and businesses. During the past several years, we have acquired and integrated a number of companies through which we have gained access to technologies and products that complement our internally developed product lines. In the future, we may acquire additional technologies, products or businesses to expand our operations. Acquisitions expose us to new operating and other risks, including risks associated with the: • assimilation of new products, technologies, operations, sites and personnel; • application for and achievement of regulatory approvals or other clearances; • diversion of resources from our existing business and technologies; • generation of sales to offset associated acquisition costs; • implementation and maintenance of uniform standards and effective controls and procedures; • maintenance of relationships with employees and customers and integration of new management personnel; • issuance of dilutive equity securities; • incurrence or assumption of debt; • amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets or potential businesses; and • exposure to liabilities of and claims against acquired entities. Our failure to address the above risks successfully in the future may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. Our continued growth is dependent on the development and success of new products. Rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions are typical in the markets we serve. Our future success will depend in part on continuous, timely development and introduction of new products that address evolving market requirements. We believe successful new product introductions provide a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and are reluctant to switch thereafter. To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products suffer significant delays in development or are not accepted in the market, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain. An inability to successfully develop and introduce new products, for technological or other reasons, could reduce our growth rate or 6 Table of Contents otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. Important programs underway include the development and global rollout of our modular medium-throughput QIAsymphony platform, our next generation high throughput molecular testing QIAensemble platform and related sample and assay technologies. In the past we have experienced delays in the development and introduction of products, including regulatory approvals, and we may experience delays in the future. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, achieve market acceptance or regulatory approval or compete successfully with competitive technologies. Some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products include: • availability, quality and price relative to competitive products; • the timing of introduction of the new product relative to competitive products; • opinions of the new product’s utility; • citation of the new product in published research; • regulatory trends and approvals; and • general trends in life sciences research, applied markets and molecular diagnostics. The expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our concentration of a large amount of revenues in a single product group and a small number of customers for that product group increases our dependence on that product group’s success, our reliance on our relationship with each of those customers, and our reliance on a diversification strategy. We believe that contributions from sales of our HPV test product group may represent as much as 25% of our total net sales. While the ultimate decision to order this test is made by a physician in consultation with their patient, the test analysis is performed by reference laboratories, who in turn are the customers of QIAGEN in terms of ordering tests and related equipment. At present, a limited number of reference laboratories account for the majority of our sales for this product group. A significant reduction in sales of this product group may have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. In times of economic hardship or high unemployment, as was the case in 2010, patients may decide to forego or delay routine tests. Further, the cost of HPV testing is reimbursed to reference laboratories by insurance providers and healthcare maintenance organizations. If these insurance companies decide to limit the availability of payments for our test to their members, it could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. It is possible that our dependence on sales from this product group will continue in the future. If we fail to diversify our product line grouping, we will continue to be at risk that the loss or under-performance of a single product, product group or customer may materially affect our results of operations. Our sales of HPV products and our growth will be effected by the level of acceptance of and the market for HPV screening by physicians and laboratories. Sales of our HPV-related molecular diagnostic products, and our ability to increase sales of this product group, depend upon greater acceptance by physicians and laboratories of the clinical benefits of HPV screening as a necessary part of the standard of care for screening women for risk of cervical cancer. This applies to the U.S. as well as Europe and various markets around the world. In particular, a key element of future sales growth includes greater adoption of HPV test products as a primary cervical cancer screening method, either alone or in conjunction with cytology-based tests (Pap tests). Pap tests have been the principal means of cervical cancer screening since the 1940s. The introduction of our HPV test has been supported by major clinical data showing 7 Table of Contents its significant benefits in better identifying women at risk for cervical cancer than to those who were only given a Pap test, and standards of care in the U.S. have been adopted to recommend HPV tests in conjunction with Pap tests. (These standards are also being adopted in other countries around the world.) However, technological advances designed to improve quality control over sample collection and preservation, as well as to reduce the susceptibility of Pap tests to human error, may increase physician reliance on the Pap test and solidify its market position as the most widely used screening test for cervical cancer. Approximately 60 million Pap tests are currently performed annually in the United States, and an estimated 60 to 100 million additional Pap tests are performed annually in the rest of the world. HPV testing applies a new molecular-based technology and testing approach that is different from the cytology-based approach (reviewing cells under a microscope) of the Pap test. Significant resources are required to educate physicians and laboratories about the patient benefits that can result from using HPV test products in addition to the Pap test, and to assist laboratory customers in learning how to use our HPV test products. The addition of our HPV test products to the Pap test for primary screening in the United States may be seen by some customers as adding unnecessary expense to the generally accepted cervical cancer screening methodology. As a result, we must provide information to counteract these types of impressions on a case-by-case basis. If we are not successful in executing our marketing strategies, which focus on the proven significant benefits of HPV testing to identify women at risk for cervical cancer, we may not be able to maintain or continue to grow our market share for HPV testing. We are working with physician and laboratory customers, and also with patient advocacy groups, to develop and establish the benefits of HPV screening to women. If we are not successful in this endeavor, we may not be able to maintain or grow the market for HPV screening or maintain or increase our HPV test revenues. We may encounter delays in receipt, or limits in the amount, of reimbursement approvals and public health funding, which will impact our ability to grow revenues in these markets. Outside the U.S., third-party payors are often reluctant to reimburse healthcare providers for the use of medical tests that involve new technologies or provide novel diagnostic information. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly limiting reimbursement coverage for medical diagnostic products and, in many instances, are exerting pressure on diagnostic product suppliers to reduce their prices. Since each third-party payor often makes reimbursement decisions on an individual patient basis, obtaining such approvals is a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical data supporting the clinical benefits of each of our products. As a result, there can be no assurance that reimbursement approvals will be obtained. This process can delay the broad market introduction of new products, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations. As a result, outside the U.S., third-party reimbursement may not be consistent or financially adequate to cover the cost of our products. This could limit our ability to sell our products or cause us to reduce prices, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Reduction in research and development budgets and government funding may result in reduced sales. Our customers include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, and government and private laboratories. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets of these organizations could have a significant adverse effect on demand for our products. Research and development budgets are affected by changes in available resources, the mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, changes in spending priorities and institutional budgetary policies. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in expenditures for life sciences research and development by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, and government and private laboratories. In addition, short-term changes in administrative, regulatory or purchasing-related procedures can create uncertainties or other impediments that can have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents In recent years, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have undergone substantial restructuring and consolidation. Additional mergers or consolidation within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could cause us to lose existing customers and potential future customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. A significant portion of our sales are generated from demand for our products from researchers at universities, government laboratories and private foundations, and whose funding is dependent upon grants from government agencies, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH). Although the level of research funding has been increasing in recent years, we cannot assure you that this trend will continue, in particular in the U.S. given budget constraints caused by challenging economic conditions. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently unpredictable. Future sales may be adversely affected if our customers delay purchases as a result of uncertainties regarding the approval of government or industrial budget proposals. Also, government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and government agencies in other countries that fund life sciences research and development activities. A reduction in government funding for the NIH or other government research agencies in other countries could have a serious adverse impact on our results of operations. Competition could reduce our sales. We face various competitive factors against greater adoption of our products, in particular the use of “home-brew” methods, where widely available reagents and other chemicals are used in a non-stanardized manner to perform sample and assay processing. We are also aware that a significant number of laboratory organizations and competitor companies are developing and using their own internally developed molecular assay tests. Some competitor companies may seek regulatory approvals from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or similar non-U.S. regulatory authorities and bring to the market alternative products that could limit the use of our products. The success of our business depends in part on the continued conversion of current users of “home brew” methods to our standardized sample and assay technologies and products. There can be no assurance, however, as to the continued conversion of these potential customers. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, increasing competition in various segments of our business from companies that provide competitive pre-analytical solutions and also other products used by our customers. The markets for some of our products are very competitive and price sensitive. Other product suppliers may have significant advantages in terms of financial, operational, sales and marketing resources as well as experience in research and development. These companies may have developed, or could develop in the future, new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products obsolete. The development of products offering superior technology or a more cost-effective alternative to our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We believe that customers in the market for pre-analytical solutions and assay technologies display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product, in particular given the time and expense required by customers to properly implement these products into their operations. As a result,, it may be difficult to convert customers who have purchased products from competitors, and our competitive position may suffer if we are unable to be the first to develop and supply new products. Global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations could be materially affected by adverse general conditions in the global economy and global financial markets. In times of economic hardship or high unemployment, patients may decide to forego or delay routine tests, in particular for our HPV test used to screen women for risk of cervical cancer. Changes in the availability or reimbursement of our molecular diagnostic testing products by insurance providers and healthcare maintenance organizations could also have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Access to financing in the global financial markets has also been adversely affected for many businesses during the recent challenging economic times. Our customers may face internal financing pressures that adversely impact spending decisions and the ability to purchase our products. A severe or prolonged economic downturn could result in a variety of risks to our business that would adversely impact our results of operations, including the reduction or delay in planned improvements to healthcare systems in various countries, the reduction of funding for life sciences research, and intensified efforts by governments and healthcare payors regarding cost-containment efforts. As is the case for many businesses, we face the following risks in regard to financial markets: • severely limited access to financing over an extended period of time, which may limit our ability to fund our growth strategy and could result in delays to capital expenditures, acquisitions or research and development projects; • further failures of currently solvent financial institutions, which may cause losses from our short-term cash investments or our hedging transactions due to a counterparty’s inability to fulfill its payment obligations; • inability to refinance existing debt at competitive rates, reasonable terms or sufficient amounts; and • increased volatility or adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Risks Related to the Development, Manufacture and Distribution of Our Products We depend on suppliers for materials used to manufacture our products, and if shipments from these suppliers are delayed or interrupted, we may be unable to manufacture our products. We buy materials to create our products from a number of suppliers and are not dependent on any one supplier or group of suppliers for our business as a whole. However, key components of certain products, including certain instrumentation components and chemicals, are available only from a single source. If supplies from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, we may not be able to obtain these materials timely or in sufficient quantities or qualities in order to produce certain products, and this could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We rely on collaborative commercial relationships to develop some of our products. Our long-term business strategy involves entering into strategic alliances as well as marketing and distribution arrangements with academic, corporate and other partners relating to the development, commercialization, marketing and distribution of certain of our existing and potential products. We may be unable to continue to negotiate these collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms, and these relationships also may not be scientifically or commercially successful. In addition, we may be unable to maintain these relationships, and our collaborative partners may pursue or develop competing products or technologies, either on their own or in collaboration with others. Some of our customers are requiring us to change our sales arrangements to lower their costs which may limit our pricing flexibility and harm our business Some of our customers have developed purchasing initiatives to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase products to lower their supply costs. In some cases, these customers have established agreements with large distributors, which include discounts and direct involvement in the distributor’s purchasing process. These activities may force us to supply large distributors with our products at discounts in order to continue providing products to some customers. For similar reasons, many larger customers, including the U.S. government, have requested, and may request in the future, special pricing arrangements, which can include blanket purchase agreements. These agreements may limit our pricing flexibility, which could harm our business and affect our results of operations. For a limited number of customers, and at the customer’s request, we have 10 Table of Contents conducted sales transactions through third-party online intermediaries to whom we are required to pay commissions. If sales grow through these intermediaries, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, particularly a negative impact on our gross margin. The time and expense needed to obtain regulatory approval and respond to changes in regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to commercially distribute our products and generate sales. We and our customers operate in a highly regulated environment characterized by continuous changes in the governing regulatory framework, particularly for product approvals. Genetic research activities and products commonly referred to as “genetically engineered” (such as certain food and therapeutic products) are subject to extensive governmental regulation in most developed countries, especially in the major markets for pharmaceutical and diagnostic products such as the European Union, the U.S. and Japan. In recent years, several highly publicized scientific events (most notably in genomic research and “cloning”) have prompted intense public debates on the ethical, philosophical and religious implications of an unlimited expansion in genetic research and the use of products emerging from this research. As a result of this debate, some key countries may increase existing regulatory barriers, which could adversely affect demand for our products and prevent us from fulfilling our growth expectations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any future changes of applicable regulations will not require further expenditures or an alteration, suspension or liquidation of our operations in certain areas, or even in their entirety. Changes in the existing regulations or adoption of new requirements or policies could adversely affect our ability to sell our approved products or to seek approvals for new products in other countries around the world. Future sales of certain products now in development may be dependent upon us conducting pre-clinical studies, clinical trials and other tasks required to gain regulatory approvals. These trials could be subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S., particularly the FDA, and regulatory agencies in other countries with similar responsibilities. These trials involve substantial uncertainties and could impact customer demand for our products. In addition, certain products, especially those intended for use in in vitro diagnostics applications, require regulatory approvals in various countries. For example, since the European Union Directive 98/79/EC on in vitro diagnostic medical devices, or EU-IvD-D, went into effect on December 7, 2003, all products and kits used for in vitro diagnostic applications must be compliant with this directive. In addition to high-risk products such as HIV testing systems (list A of Annex II of the directive) or blood glucose testing systems (list B of Annex II of the directive), nucleic acid purification products, which are used in diagnostic workflows, are affected by this regulatory framework. The major goals of this directive are to standardize diagnostic procedures within the European Union, to increase reliability of diagnostic analysis and to enhance patient safety through the highest level of product safety. Our failing to obtain any required clearance or approvals may significantly damage our business in these markets. Additionally, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with laws and regulations in the future, and changes or additions to existing laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Several of our key products and programs are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. We plan to apply for FDA clearance or approval of additional products in the future as medical devices. Regulatory agencies in other countries also have medical device approval regulations that are becoming more extensive. These regulations govern most commercial activities associated with medical devices, including indications for the use of these products as well as other aspects that include product development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, advertising and promotion. Compliance with these regulations is expensive and time-consuming. Our HPV products were the first to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. and in many European countries for clinical use in screening 11 Table of Contents women for cervical cancer, which adds to our marketing expenses and increases the degree of regulatory review and oversight. The expense of submitting regulatory approval applications in multiple countries, as compared to our available resources, will impact the decisions we make about entering new markets. Each medical device that we wish to distribute commercially in the U.S. will likely require us to seek either 510(k) clearance or approval of a pre-market approval application (PMA) from the FDA prior to marketing the device for in-vitro diagnostic use. Clinical trials related to our regulatory submissions take years to complete and represent a significant expense. The 510(k) clearance pathway usually takes from three to twelve months, but can take even longer. The PMA pathway is more costly, lengthy and uncertain, and can take from one to three years, or even longer. For example, it took more than four years to receive pre-market approval from the FDA for our HPV test product for use as a test for the presence of HPV in women with equivocal Pap test results and pre-market approval to the use of our HPV test as a primary adjunctive cervical cancer screening test to be performed in combination with the Pap test for women age 30 and older. The uncertain time period required for regulatory review increases our costs to develop new products and increases the risk that we will not succeed in introducing or selling new products in the U.S. Our cleared or approved devices, including our diagnostic tests and related equipment, are subject to numerous post-approval requirements. We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. If the FDA determines that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from warning letters to more severe sanctions such as fines, injunctions and civil penalties, recalls or seizures of our products, operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production, denial of our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of product candidates, withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval already granted and criminal prosecution. Any enforcement action by the FDA may affect our ability to commercially distribute these products in the U.S. Some of our test kits are sold for research use only in the U.S. We do not promote these tests for clinical diagnostic use, and they are labeled “For Research Use Only” (RUO). If the FDA were to disagree with our designation of a product as ROU, we could be forced to stop selling the product until appropriate regulatory clearance or approval has been obtained. We heavily rely on air cargo carriers and other overnight logistics services, and shipping delays or interruptions could harm our business. Our customers in the scientific research markets typically only keep a modest inventory of our products on hand, and consequently require overnight delivery of purchases. As a result, we heavily rely on air cargo carriers and logistic suppliers. If overnight services are suspended or delayed, and other delivery carriers and logistic suppliers cannot provide satisfactory services, customers may suspend a significant amount of their work requiring nucleic acid purification. The lack of adequate delivery alternatives would have a serious adverse impact on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Operations Our success depends on the continued employment of our key personnel, any of whom we may lose at any time. Our senior management consists of an Executive Committee comprised of the Managing Directors and our most senior executives responsible for core functions, and led by Mr. Peer Schatz, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Schatz or any of our Managing Directors could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, although we have not experienced any difficulties attracting or retaining key management and scientific staff, our ability to recruit and retain qualified, skilled employees will continue to be critical to our success. Given the intense competition for experienced scientists among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as academic and other research institutions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain 12 Table of Contents employees critical to our success on acceptable terms. Our initiatives to expand QIAGEN will also require additional employees, including management with expertise in areas such as manufacturing and marketing, and the development of existing managers to lead a growing organization. The failure to recruit new employees, or develop existing employees, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our ability to accurately forecast our results during each quarter may be negatively impacted by the fact that a substantial percentage of our sales may be recorded in the final weeks or days of the quarter. The markets we serve are characterized by a high percentage of purchase orders being received in the final few weeks or even days of each quarter. Although this varies from quarter to quarter, many customers make a large portion of their purchase decisions late in each quarter, in particular since it is during this period that they receive new information on both their budgets and requirements. As a result, even late in each quarter, we cannot predict with certainty whether our sales forecasts for the quarter will be achieved. Historically, we have been able to rely on the overall pattern of customer purchase orders during prior periods to project with reasonable accuracy our anticipated sales for the current or coming quarters. However, if customer purchasing trends during a quarter vary from historical patterns, our quarterly financial results could deviate significantly from our projections. As a result, our sales forecasts for any given quarter may prove not to have been accurate. We also may not have sufficient information to confirm or revise our sales projections for a specific quarter. If we fail to achieve our forecasted sales for a particular quarter, the value of our Common Shares could be adversely affected. Changes in tax laws or their application could adversely affect our results of operations. The integrated nature of our worldwide operations enables us to reduce the effective tax rate on our earnings since a portion of our earnings are taxed at more favorable rates in some jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws or their application with respect to matters such as changes in tax-rates, transfer pricing, intercompany dividends, controlled corporations, and limitations on tax relief allowed on the interest on intercompany debt, could increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our results of operations. The U.S. health care reform law could affect our business, profitability and stock price. Comprehensive healthcare reform legislation was signed into law in the U.S. in 2010. Although we cannot fully predict the many ways in which this healthcare reform might affect our business, the law imposes a 2.3% excise tax on certain transactions, including many sales of medical devices, which we expect will include the U.S. sales of our assays and instruments. This tax is scheduled to take effect in 2013. The increased tax burden may adversely affect our results of operations. We have a significant amount of long-term debt that may adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt, which creates significant debt service obligations. A high level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt or that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to repay or refinance our debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, we may have to delay or curtail our research and development programs. The level of our indebtedness could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to make required payments on our debt; • make it difficult for us to obtain any financing in the future necessary for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. 13 Table of Contents Our business may require substantial additional capital, which we may not be able to obtain on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our future capital requirements and level of expenses will depend upon numerous factors, including the costs associated with: • marketing, sales and customer support efforts; • research and development activities; • expansion of our facilities; • consummation of possible future acquisitions of technologies, products or businesses; • demand for our products and services; and • repayment or refinancing of debt. We currently anticipate that our short-term capital requirements will be satisfied by cash flow from our operations. However, as of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding loan facilities of approximately $425.0 million, of which $75.0 million will become due in July 2011, and $350.0 million will become due in July 2012. As of December 31, 2010, we also had additional long-term debt obligations of $445.0 million, of which $145.0 million will become due no earlier than July 2012, and $300.0 million will become due in November 2012 as well as long-term debt of $3.0 million which is due in June 2019 with repayments starting in 2011. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2010, we have capital lease obligations, including the current portion, of $26.9 million, that expire in various years through 2018. We may need to refinance all or part of these liabilities before or at their contractual maturities. We currently do not foresee that this will happen, but if at some point in time our existing resources should be insufficient to fund our activities, we may need to raise funds through public or private debt or equity financings. The funds for the refinancing of the existing liabilities or for the ongoing funding of our business may not be available or, if available, not on terms acceptable to us. If adequate funds were not available, we may be required to reduce or delay expenditures for research and development, production, marketing, capital expenditures and/or acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible securities, the issuance of any securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. An impairment of goodwill and intangible assets could reduce our earnings. At December 31, 2010, our consolidated balance sheet reflected approximately $1.4 billion of goodwill and approximately $753.3 million of intangible assets. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, (U.S. GAAP) generally requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. Long-lived assets, such as intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets were impaired, we would be required to take an immediate charge to earnings. Our strategic equity investments may result in losses. We have made, and may continue to make, strategic investments in complementary businesses as opportunities arise. We periodically review the carrying value of these investments for impairment, considering factors that include the most recent stock transactions, book values from the most recent financial statements, and forecasts and expectations of the investee. The results of these valuations may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. Estimating the fair value of non-marketable equity investments in life science companies is inherently subjective. If actual events differ from our assumptions and other than temporary unfavorable fluctuations in the 14 Table of Contents valuations of the investments are indicated, it could require a write-down of the investment. This could result in future charges on our earnings that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. It is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits from these strategic investments. Risk of price controls is a threat to our profitability. The ability of many of our customers to successfully market their products depends in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of these products is available from governmental health administrations, private health insurers and other organizations. Governmental and other third-party payors are increasingly seeking to contain healthcare costs and to reduce the price of medical products and services. As a result, the biotechnology, diagnostics and pharmaceutical industries are exposed to the potential risk of price controls by these entities. If there are not adequate reimbursement levels, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Global Operations Doing business internationally creates certain risks for our business. Our business involves operations in several countries outside of the U.S. Our consumable manufacturing facilities are located in Germany, China and the U.S., and our instrumentation facilities are located in Switzerland. We have established sales subsidiaries in numerous countries including the U.S., Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, France, Switzerland, Australia, Canada, the Netherlands, Sweden, Italy, Hong Kong, Singapore, Turkey, Korea, Malaysia, China, Spain, Brazil, Mexico and India. In addition, our products are sold through independent distributors serving more than 40 other countries. Conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. We have invested heavily in computerized information systems in order to manage more efficiently the widely dispersed components of our operations. If we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to other risks inherent in international business activities, such as general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, overlap of different tax structures, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, and longer accounts receivable payment cycles in certain countries. Other risks associated with international operations include import and export licensing requirements, trade restrictions, exchange controls and changes in tariff and freight rates. As a result of these conditions, an inability to successfully manage our international operations could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our business in countries with a history of corruption and transactions with foreign governments increase the risks associated with our international activities. Based on our international operations, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in countries known to experience corruption. Further international expansion may involve increased exposure to such practices. Our activities in these countries creates the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors that could be in violation of various laws, including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees and distributors. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may not prove to be effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA and other laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could be severe, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our business and operating results. Since we currently market our products in over 40 countries throughout the world, a significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency. As a result, fluctuations in value, relative to the U.S. dollar, of the currencies in which we conduct our business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses arising from normal business operations are charged against earnings in the period when incurred. We hedge a portion of the anticipated cash flow that we expect to exchange into other currencies, subject to our short-term financing needs. Due to the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. While we engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions to manage our foreign currency exposure, there can be no assurance that our hedging strategy will adequately protect our operating results from the effects of future exchange rate fluctuations. We have made investments in and are expanding our business into emerging markets and regions, which exposes us to new risks. We have recently expanded our business into emerging markets in Asia and South America, and we expect to continue to focus on expanding our business in these fast-growing markets. In addition to the currency and international operation risks described above, our international operations are subject to a variety of risks that include those arising out of the economy, political outlook and language and cultural barriers in countries where we have operations or do business. In many of these emerging markets, we may be faced with several risks that are more significant than in other countries in which we have a history of doing business. These risks include economies that may be dependent on only a few products and are therefore subject to significant fluctuations, weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments, and privatization or other government actions affecting the flow of goods and currency. In conducting our business, we move products from one country to another and may provide services in one country from a subsidiary located in another country. Accordingly, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in customs and tax regimes that could have significant negative impacts on our results of operations. Our global operations may be affected by actions of governments, global or regional economic developments, weather or transportation delays, natural disasters or other force majeure events (collectively, unforeseen events) which may negatively impact our suppliers, our customers or us. Our business involves operations around the world. Our consumable manufacturing facilities are located in Germany, China and the U.S., and our instrumentation facilities are located in Switzerland. We have established sales subsidiaries in numerous countries and our products are sold through independent distributors serving more than 40 additional countries. Our facilities may be harmed by unforeseen events, and in the event we or our customers are affected by a disaster, we may experience delays or reductions in sales or production, or increased costs, or may be required to identify alternate suppliers or rely on third-party manufacturers. Our instrumentation manufacturing processes are dependent upon certain components provided by third-party suppliers located in Japan. We may experience temporary shortages of these components due to disruptions in supply caused by the earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan in March 2011. As a result, to the extent that our suppliers are impacted by these events, we may experience periods of reduced instrumentation production. These unexpected interruptions in our instrumentation production capabilities may lead to delayed or lost sales and may adversely affect our results of operations for the affected period. If the recovery of our suppliers in Japan does not occur in a reasonable time frame, we may be forced to procure sourced products or materials from alternative suppliers, and we may not be able to do so on terms as favorable as our current terms or at all. Material increases in the cost of components would have an adverse impact on our operating performance and cash flows if we were unable to pass on these increased costs to our customers. 16 Table of Contents In addition, to the extent we temporarily shutdown any facility following such an unforeseen event, we may experience disruptions in our ability to ship products to customers or otherwise operate our business as a result of the unforeseen event. While our global operations give us the ability to ship product from alternative sites, we may not be able to do so because our customers’ facilities are shutdown or the local logistics infrastructure is not functioning, and our sales will suffer. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of Japan’s earthquake and tsunami on our local and global sales. Damage to our property due to unforeseen events and the disruption of our business from casualties may be covered by insurance, but this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and such insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we may incur incremental costs following an unforeseen event which will reduce profits and adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property We depend on patents and proprietary rights that may fail to protect our business. Our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to establish and protect our patent and trademark rights in these products and technologies. As of December 31, 2010, we owned 169 issued patents in the United States, 130 issued patents in Germany and 653 issued patents in other major industrialized countries. In addition, at December 31, 2010, we had 975 pending patent applications, and we intend to file applications for additional patents as our products and technologies are developed. The patent positions of technology-based companies, including our company, involve complex legal and factual questions and may be uncertain, and the laws governing the scope of patent coverage and the periods of enforceability of patent protection are subject to change. In addition, patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. Therefore, no assurance can be given that patents will issue from any patent applications that we own or license or if patents do issue, that the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, no assurance can be given that any issued patents that we own or license will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide us competitive advantages. Further, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products and as a result, we may lose revenue. A significant portion of HPV-related intellectual property is in the public domain, while additional HPV-related intellectual property is subject to our patents some of which will begin to expire in the next few years or are licensed to us on a non-exclusive basis. As a result, other companies have developed or may develop HPV detection tests. Certain of our products incorporate patents and technologies that are licensed from third parties and for certain products, these in-licensed patents together with other patents provide us with a competitive advantage. These licenses impose various commercialization, sublicensing and other obligations on us. Our failure to comply with these requirements could result in the conversion of the applicable license from being exclusive to non-exclusive in nature or, in some cases, termination of the license, and as a result, we may lose some competitive advantage and experience a loss of revenue. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect through confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. There can be no assurance that any confidentiality agreements that we have with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. There also can be no assurance that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. 17 Table of Contents We currently engage in, and may continue to engage in, collaborations with academic researchers and institutions. There can be no assurance that under the terms of such collaborations, third parties will not acquire rights in certain inventions developed during the course of the performance of these collaborations. We are subject to risks associated with patent litigation. The biotechnology industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. We are aware that patents have been applied for and/or issued to third parties claiming technologies for the separation and purification of nucleic acids that are closely related to those we use. From time to time, we receive inquiries requesting confirmation that we do not infringe patents of third parties. We endeavor to follow developments in this field, and we do not believe that our technologies or products infringe any proprietary rights of third parties. However, there can be no assurance that third parties will not challenge our activities and, if so challenged, that we will prevail. In addition, the patent and proprietary rights of others could require that we alter our products or processes, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to license any technologies that we may require on acceptable terms. In addition, litigation, including proceedings that may be declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the International Trade Commission, may be necessary to respond to any assertions of infringement, enforce our patent rights and/or determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of third parties. Litigation could involve substantial cost, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any proceedings. Risks Related to Product Liability Issues Our business exposes us to potential product liability. The marketing and sale of our products and services for certain applications entail a potential risk of product liability. Although we are not currently subject to any material product liability claims, product liability claims may be brought against us in the future. Further, there can be no assurance that our products will not be included in unethical, illegal or inappropriate research or applications, which may in turn put us at risk of litigation. We carry product liability insurance coverage, which is limited in scope and amount, but that we believe is currently appropriate for us. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain this insurance at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, or that this insurance will be adequate to protect us against any or all potential claims or losses. We are subject to various laws and regulations generally applicable to businesses in the different jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws and regulations applicable to the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. We do not expect compliance with such laws to have a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position. Although we believe that our procedures for the handling and disposal of hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could have a material adverse impact on us. Risks Related to Our Common Shares Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period and this may affect the market price of our Common Shares. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, and also from year to year, since they are dependent upon a broad range of factors that include demand for our products, the level and timing of customer research budgets and commercialization efforts, the timing of government funding budgets of our customers, the timing of our research and development activities and related regulatory approvals, the impact of sales and marketing expenses, the introduction of new products by us or our competitors, competitive market 18 Table of Contents conditions, exchange rate fluctuations and general economic conditions. Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future sales trends. As a result, sales and earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or from year to year, and actual sales and earnings results in any one period will not necessarily be indicative of results to be anticipated in subsequent periods. Our results may also fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause a decline in the market price of our Common Shares. Our holding company structure makes us dependent on the operations of our subsidiaries. QIAGEN N.V. is incorporated under Dutch law as a public limited liability company (naamloze vennootschap), and is organized as a holding company. Currently, the material assets are the outstanding shares of the QIAGEN subsidiaries. As a result, QIAGEN N.V. is dependent upon payments, dividends and distributions from the subsidiaries for funds to pay operating and other expenses as well as to pay future cash dividends or distributions, if any, to holders of our Common Shares. Dividends or distributions by subsidiaries in a currency other than the U.S. dollar may result in a loss upon a subsequent conversion into U.S. dollars. U.S. civil liabilities may not be enforceable against us. We are incorporated under Dutch law, and substantial portions of our assets are located outside of the U.S. In addition, certain members of our Managing and Supervisory Boards and our officers reside outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. upon us or such other persons, or to enforce outside the U.S. any judgments obtained against such persons in U.S. courts, in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the U.S., rights predicated upon the U.S. securities laws. There is no treaty between the U.S. and the Netherlands for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. As a result, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the U.S. based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws, would not be directly enforceable in the Netherlands. However, if the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered brings a new suit in a competent court in the Netherlands, such party may submit to the Dutch court the final judgment which has been rendered in the U.S. If the Dutch court finds that the jurisdiction of the federal or state court in the U.S. has been based on grounds that are internationally acceptable and that proper legal procedures have been observed, the Dutch court will, in principle, give binding effect to the final judgment which has been rendered in the U.S. unless such judgment contravenes Dutch principles of public policy. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance that U.S. investors will be able to enforce against us, members of our Managing or Supervisory Boards, or officers who are residents of the Netherlands or countries other than the U.S. any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the federal securities laws. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us, the members of our Managing or Supervisory Boards, or our officers in an original action predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the U.S. brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands against us or such members or officers, respectively. Our Common Shares may have a volatile public trading price. The market price of our common shares since our initial public offering in September 1996 has increased significantly and been highly volatile. In the last two years, the price of our Common Shares has ranged from a high of $24.00 to a low of $14.32 on NASDAQ, and a high of EUR 17.87 to a low of EUR 11.12 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. In addition to overall stock market fluctuations, factors that may have a significant impact on the price of our Common Shares include: • announcements of technological innovations or the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; 19 Table of Contents • developments in our relationships with collaborative partners; • quarterly variations in our operating results or those of our peer companies; • changes in government regulations or patent laws; • developments in patent or other intellectual property rights; • developments in government spending budgets for life sciences-related research; • general market conditions relating to the diagnostics, applied testing, pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; and • impact from foreign exchange rates. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market for technology-based companies. These fluctuations have not necessarily been related to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares. Holders of our Common Shares should not expect to receive dividend income. We have not paid cash dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Common Shares for the foreseeable future. Although we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends, the distribution of any cash dividends in a currency other than the U.S. dollar will be subject to the risk of foreign currency transaction losses. Investors should not invest in our Common Shares if they are seeking dividend income; the only return that may be realized through investing in our Common Shares would be through an appreciation in the share price. Shareholders who are United States residents could be subject to unfavorable tax treatment. We may be classified as a “passive foreign investment company,” or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if certain tests are met. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to holders of Common Shares and would likely cause a reduction in the value of these shares. If we were determined to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to our U.S. shareholders. We would be considered a PFIC with respect to a U.S. shareholder if for any taxable year in which the U.S. shareholder held the common shares, either (i) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income; or (ii) the average value of our assets (during the taxable year) which produce or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the average value of all assets for such year. Based on our income, assets and activities, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2010, and do not expect to be a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. No assurances can be made, however, that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge this position or that we will not subsequently become a PFIC. Future sales and issuances of our Common Shares could adversely affect our stock price. Any future sale or issuance of a substantial number of our Common Shares in the public market, or any perception that a sale may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares. Under Dutch law, a company can issue shares up to its authorized share capital provided for in its Articles of Association. Pursuant to our Articles of Association, our authorized share capital amounts to EUR 9.0 million, which is divided into 410.0 million common shares—40.0 million financing preference shares and 450.0 million preference shares—with all shares having a EUR 0.01 par value. As of December 31, 2010, a total of approximately 233.1 million Common Shares were outstanding along with approximately 11.7 million additional shares reserved for issuance upon exercise or release of outstanding stock options and awards, of which 6.3 million were vested. A total of approximately 14.3 million Common Shares are reserved and available for 20 Table of Contents issuances under our stock plans as of December 31, 2010, including the shares subject to outstanding stock options and awards. The majority of our outstanding Common Shares are free for sale, except shares held by our affiliates, which are subject to certain limitations on resale. Additionally, holders of notes issued by QIAGEN Finance (Luxembourg) S.A. and QIAGEN Euro Finance (Luxembourg) S.A. are entitled to convert their notes into approximately 26.5 million Common Shares, subject to adjustments in certain cases. Provisions of our Articles of Association and Dutch law and an option we have granted may make it difficult to replace or remove management and may inhibit or delay a takeover. Our Articles of Association, or Articles, provide that our shareholders may only suspend or dismiss our Managing Directors and Supervisory Directors against their wishes with a vote of two-thirds of the votes cast if such votes represent more than 50% of our issued share capital. If the proposal were made by the joint meeting of the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board, a simple majority is sufficient. The Articles also provide that if the members of our Supervisory Board and our Managing Board have been nominated by the joint meeting of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board, shareholders may only overrule this nomination with a vote of two-thirds of the votes cast if such votes represent more than 50% of our issued share capital. Certain other provisions of our Articles allow us, under certain circumstances, to prevent a third party from obtaining a majority of the voting control of our Common Shares through the issuance of Preference Shares. Pursuant to our Articles and the resolution adopted by our General Meeting of Shareholders on October 11, 2007, our Supervisory Board is entitled to issue Preference Shares in case of an intended takeover of our company by (i) any person who alone or with one or more other persons, directly or indirectly, have acquired or given notice of an intent to acquire (beneficial) ownership of an equity stake which in aggregate equals 20% or more of our share capital then outstanding or (ii) an “adverse person” as determined by the Supervisory Board. If the Supervisory Board opposes an intended takeover and authorizes the issuance of Preference Shares, the bidder may withdraw its bid or enter into negotiations with the Managing Board and/or Supervisory Board and agree on a higher bid price for our Shares. In 2004, we granted an option to the Stichting Preferente Aandelen QIAGEN, or the Foundation (Stichting), subject to the conditions described in the paragraph above, which allows the Foundation to acquire Preference Shares from us. The option enables the Foundation to acquire such number of Preference Shares as equals the number of our outstanding Common Shares at the time of the relevant exercise of the option, less one Preference Share. When exercising the option and exercising its voting rights on these Preference Shares, the Foundation must act in our interest and the interests of our stakeholders. The purpose of the Foundation option is to prevent or delay a change of control that would not be in the best interests of us and our stakeholders. An important restriction on the Foundation’s ability to prevent or delay a change of control is that a public offer must be announced by a third party before it can issue (preference or other) protective shares that would enable the Foundation to exercise rights to 30% or more of the voting rights without an obligation to make a mandatory offer for all shares held by the remaining shareholders. In addition, the holding period for these shares by the Foundation is restricted to two years, and this protective stake must fall below the 30% voting rights threshold before the two-year period ends. 