ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in Wintrust’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to Wintrust’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect Wintrust are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair Win-trust’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, Wintrust’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of Wintrust’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The financial services industry is very competitive. The Company faces competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services (including wealth management services) throughout the Company’s market area. The Company’s competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other nonbank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company. If the Company is unable to compete effectively, it will lose market share and income from deposits, loans, and other products may be reduced. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Wintrust’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service and high ethical standards; • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; • the rate at which the Company introduces new products and services relative to its competitors; • customer satisfaction with the Company’s level of service; • industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Wintrust may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Wintrust’s interest income and interest expense are affected by general economic conditions and by the policies of regulatory authorities, including the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve. Changes in interest rates may influence the growth rate of loans and deposits, the quality of the loan portfolio, loan and deposit pricing, the volume of loan originations in Win-trust’s mortgage banking business and the value that Wintrust can recognize on the sale of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Wintrust expects the results of its mortgage banking business in selling loans into the secondary market will be negatively impacted during periods of rising interest rates. With the relatively low interest rates that prevailed in recent years, Wintrust had been able to augment the total return of its investment securities portfolio by selling call options on fixed-income securities it owns. However, Wintrust’s ability to engage in such transactions is dependent on the level and volatility of interest rates. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, Win-trust recorded fee income of approximately $29.0 million, $2.6 million and $3.2 million, respectively, from premiums earned on these option transactions. Wintrust’s opportunities to sell covered call options may be limited in the future if rates rise. The loss of such premium income or changes in the growth rate, quality and pricing of Wintrust’s loan and deposit portfolio caused by changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on Wintrust’s financial condition and results of operations. 20 WINTRUST FINANCIAL CORPORATION Table of Contents Wintrust is subject to lending risk. There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans, the deterioration of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for credit losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Wintrust’s allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses that may occur in its loan portfolio. Wintrust’s allowance for loan losses is established in consultation with management of its operating subsidiaries and is maintained at a level considered adequate by management to absorb loan losses that are inherent in the portfolios. At December 31, 2008, Wintrust’s allowance for loan losses was 51.3% of total nonperforming loans and 0.92% of total loans. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond its control, and such losses may exceed current estimates. Estimating loan loss allowances for Wintrust’s newer banks is more difficult because rapidly growing and de novo bank loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. Therefore, the Banks may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than banks with more seasoned loan portfolios. There can be no assurance that the allowance for loan losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan or lease losses in the future, which could result in a material adverse effect on Wintrust’s financial condition and results of operations. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry and further negative changes my hurt the value of the Company’s collateral and ability to collect. The housing and real estate sectors have been experiencing an extraordinary economic slowdown during 2007 and 2008 causing the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans to decline and which may continue to decline. Market turmoil has lead to an increase in delinquencies and has negatively impacted consumer confidence and the level of business activity. Further deterioration in economic conditions may cause increases in delinquencies, problem assets, charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. If these problems escalate, court systems may become less efficient in dealing with increased foreclosure actions. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. If these conditions persist, they will impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not restore liquidity and stability to the United States financial system. On October 3, 2008, EESA was signed into law. Under EESA, Treasury has the authority to, among other things, invest in financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Pursuant to this authority, the Treasury announced its Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), under which it is purchasing preferred stock and warrants in eligible institutions to increase the flow of credit to businesses and consumers and to support the economy. Wintrust received preliminary approval to participate in the CPP on November 26, 2008, and, on December 19, 2008, the Company issued and sold to the Treasury shares of senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock in accordance with the terms of the CPP for an aggregate consideration of approximately $250 million. Participation in the CPP subjects the Company to specific restrictions under the terms of the CPP and increased oversight by the Treasury, regulators and Congress under EESA. These restrictions include limitations on Wintrust’s ability to increase dividends on its common stock or to repurchase its common stock. Additionally, the CPP subjects the Company to restrictions on executive compensation practices. With regard to increased oversight, the Treasury has the power to unilaterally amend the terms of the purchase agreement to the extent required to comply with changes in applicable federal law and to inspect Wintrust’s corporate books and records through its federal banking regulator. In addition, the Treasury has the right to appoint two directors to the board if the Company misses dividend payments for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, on the preferred stock. Congress has held hearings on the implementation of the CPP and the use of funds and may adopt further legislation impacting financial institutions that obtain funding under the CPP or changing lending practices that legislators believe led to the 2008 Annual Report 21 Table of Contents current economic situation. On January 21, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation amending the TARP provisions of EESA to include quarterly reporting requirements with respect to lending activities, examinations by an institution’s primary federal regulator of use of funds and compliance with program requirements, restrictions on acquisitions by depository institutions receiving TARP funds, and authorization for Treasury to have an observer at board meetings of recipient institutions, among other things. Although it is unclear whether this legislation will be enacted into law, its provisions, or similar ones, may be imposed administratively by the Treasury. Such provisions could restrict the Company’s lending or increase governmental oversight of its businesses and corporate governance practices. The participation of several of competitors of the Company in the CPP and other government programs subjects Wintrust to more intense competition. Such competitors are large financial institutions that have received multi-billion dollar infusions of capital from the Treasury or other support from federal programs, which has strengthened their balance sheets and increased their ability to withstand the uncertainty of the current economic environment. The costs of participating in any such government programs, and the effect on the Company’s results of operations, cannot reliably be determined at this time. In addition, there can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA and its implementing regulations, or any other governmental program, will have on the financial markets generally, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition, access to funding and the trading price of its common stock. The Company’s agreements with the Treasury impose restrictions and obligations on Wintrust that limit Wintrust’s ability to increase dividends or repurchase its common stock or preferred stock and place limits on executive compensation. Prior to December 19, 2011, unless the Company has redeemed all of the preferred stock or the Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock to a third party, the consent of the Treasury will be required for Wintrust to, among other things, increase its common stock dividend or repurchase its common stock or other preferred stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based employee compensation awards). Additionally, the terms of the CPP place limits on executive compensation, which may have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to retain or attract well qualified and experienced senior officers. The inability to retain or attract well qualified senior officer could materially and adversely affect business, results of operations, financial condition, access to funding and, in turn, the trading price of its common stock. The current economic recession is likely to adversely affect Wintrust’s business and results of operations. Wintrust’s business is affected by economic conditions in the United States of America, and Illinois and Wisconsin in particular, including rates of economic growth and the impact that such economic conditions have on the financial markets. Recent downturns in the U.S. and global economy have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, decreased market valuations and liquidity, increased market volatility and a widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect Wintrust, its business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the business of its customers. A worsening of economic conditions in the U.S. or in Illinois or Wisconsin would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult conditions on the Company and on the financial services industry in general. Difficulties experienced by the financial services industry may lead to changes which negatively impact the Company’s business and ability to grow. Wintrust’s business is directly affected by market conditions, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation. New or more stringent regulation may result for the disruptions in the marketplace, and Wintrust may face increased regulation of its industry. Compliance with such regulation will likely increase costs and may limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities. In addition, the increased insurance exposure by the FDIC may not be matched with increased payments. As a result, the FDIC insurance fund could be under-funded, and Wintrust may experience a significant increase in FDIC premiums. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In many cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market volatility and disruption continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital, if needed or desired, and on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Wintrust Financial Corporation Table of Contents De novo operations and branch openings impact Wintrust’s profitability. Wintrust’s financial results have been and will continue to be impacted by its strategy of de novo bank formations and branch openings. Wintrust expects to undertake additional de novo bank formations or branch openings. Based on Wintrust’s experience, its management believes that it generally takes over 13 months for de novo banks to first achieve operational profitability, depending on the number of banking facilities opened, the impact of organizational and overhead expenses, the start-up phase of generating deposits and the time lag typically involved in redeploying deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. However, it may take longer than expected or than the amount of time Wintrust has historically experienced for new banks and/or banking facilities to reach profitability, and there can be no guarantee that these new banks or branches will ever be profitable. To the extent Wintrust undertakes additional de novo bank, branch and business formations, its level of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets will be impacted by start-up costs associated with such operations, and it is likely to continue to experience the effects of higher expenses relative to operating income from the new operations. These expenses may be higher than Wintrust expected or than its experience has shown, which could have a material adverse effect on Wintrust’s financial condition and results of operations. Wintrust’s premium finance business involves unique operational risks and could expose it to losses. Of Wintrust’s total loans at December 31, 2008, 18%, or approximately $1.3 billion, were comprised of commercial insurance premium finance receivables and life insurance loans that it generates through FIFC. These loans comprised 16% and 18% of loans at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These loans involve a different, and possibly higher, level of risk of delinquency or collection than generally associated with loan portfolios of more traditional community banks because Wintrust conducts lending in this segment primarily through relationships with a large number of unaffiliated insurance agents and because the borrowers are located nationwide. As a result, risk management and general supervisory oversight may be more difficult than in the Banks. FIFC may also be more susceptible to third party fraud. Acts of fraud are difficult to detect and deter, and Wintrust cannot assure investors that its risk management procedures and controls will prevent losses from fraudulent activity. Wintrust may be exposed to the risk of loss in its premium finance business, which could result in a material adverse effect on Wintrust’s financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, to the extent that affiliates of insurance carriers, banks, and other lending institutions add greater service and flexibility to their financing practices in the future, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that FIFC will be able to continue to compete successfully in its markets. Wintrust may not be able to obtain liquidity and income from the sale of premium finance receivables in the future. Wintrust has sold some of the loans FIFC originates to unrelated third parties. Wintrust recognized gains on the sales of these receivables, and the proceeds of such sales have provided Wintrust with additional liquidity. However, Wintrust did not sell any of these loans in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to capacity to retain such loans with the Banks. Wintrust sold $218 million of premium finance receivables during 2008, compared to $230 million in 2007 to unrelated third parties. During 2007, sales of premium finance receivables were made only in the fourth quarter. Wintrust may pursue similar sales of premium finance receivables in the future; however, it cannot assure you that there will continue to be a market for the sale of these loans and the extent of Wintrust’s future sales of these loans will depend on the level of new volume growth in relation to its capacity to maintain the loans within the Banks’ loan portfolios. Because Wintrust has a recourse obligation to the purchaser of premium finance loans that it sells, it could incur losses in connection with the loans sold if collections on the underlying loans prove to be insufficient to repay to the purchaser the principal amount of the loans sold plus interest at the negotiated buy-rate and if the collection shortfall on the loans sold exceeds Wintrust’s estimate of losses at the time of sale. An inability to sell premium finance receivables in the future or the failure of collections on the underlying loans to be sufficient to repay the principal amount of such loans could result in a material adverse effect on Wintrust’s financial condition and results of operations. An actual or perceived reduction in the Company’s financial strength may cause others to reduce or cease doing business with the Company. Wintrust’s customers rely upon its financial strength and stability and evaluate the risks of doing business with the Company. If the Company experiences diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, including due to market or regulatory developments, announced or rumored business developments or results of operations, a decline in stock price or a reduced credit rating, customers may withdraw their deposits or otherwise seek services from other banking institutions and prospective customers may select other service providers. The risk that the Company may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is increased in the current market environment, where the consolidation of financial institutions, including major global financial institutions, is resulting in a smaller number of much larger counter-parties and competitors. If customers reduce their deposits with the Company or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services the Company provides them, net interest and fee revenues will decrease accordingly. 2008 Annual Report 23 Table of Contents Wintrust historically has engaged in numerous acquisitions. Wintrust may not be able to continue to implement such an acquisition strategy in the future and there are risks associated with such acquisitions. In the past several years, Wintrust has completed numerous acquisitions of banks and other financial service related companies and may continue to make such acquisitions in the future. Wintrust seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Failure to successfully identify and complete acquisitions likely will result in Wintrust achieving slower growth. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities or asset quality issues of the target company; • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; • potential disruption to Wintrust’s business, including diversion of Wintrust’s management’s time and attention; • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; • difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and • potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of Win-trust’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on Wintrust’s financial condition and results of operations. Wintrust is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect Wintrust in substantial and unpredictable ways. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. Business for additional information. Wintrust’s profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the State of Illinois. Wintrust’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the State of Illinois and the specific local markets in which the Company operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, Wintrust provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the greater Chicago and southeast Wisconsin metropolitan areas. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for Wintrust’s products and services as well as the ability of Wintrust’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of Wintrust’s deposit funding sources. A significant decline in economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors with impact on these local markets could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Wintrust relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its revenue. Wintrust is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Banks and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay to Wintrust. In the event that the Banks are unable to pay dividends to Win-trust, it may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Banks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. — Business for more information. 24 Wintrust Financial Corporation Table of Contents Wintrust’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. Wintrust relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan or other systems. While Wintrust has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of such a failure, interruption, or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of information systems could damage Wintrust’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject Wintrust to additional regulatory scrutiny or civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on Win-trust’s financial condition and results of operations. Wintrust may issue additional securities, which could dilute the ownership percentage of holders of Wintrust’s common stock. The Company may issue additional securities to raise additional capital or finance acquisitions or upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding warrants or equity awards, and if it does, the ownership percentage of holders of its common stock could be diluted. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Wintrust’s future success depends, in part, on its ability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel. Wintrust believes that its future success depends, in part, on its ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, including its senior management and other key personnel. The restrictions placed on executive compensation under EESA may negatively impact the Company’s ability to retain and attract senior management. The loss of any of its senior managers or other key personnel, or its inability to identify, recruit and retain such personnel, could materially and adversely affect Wintrust’s business, operating results and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 