ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following important factors that in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual performance and results and could cause our actual results of operations to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements. A prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. The jewelry retail industry may be experiencing sluggish growth as a result of declining consumer confidence and general economic pressures on consumer spending. Luxury products, such as fine jewelry, are discretionary purchases for consumers. A reduction in consumer discretionary spending affects our industry more significantly than many other industries. Economic factors outside of our control could affect consumer discretionary spending, including the financial markets, consumer credit availability, prevailing interest rates, energy costs, employment levels, salary levels and tax rates. Any persistent reduction in discretionary consumer spending could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. A further decline in sales could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. Our annual sales declined from $43.5 million in 2005 to $40.7 million in 2006 and $27.8 million in 2007. A further decline in sales could adversely affect our relationships with our suppliers and distributors and adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. Due to the large inventory position we currently have, we plan to reduce our manufacturing levels in future years until our inventory position is more in line with our needed supply. We have already reduced our 2008 raw material purchase commitment with Cree and are in negotiations to reduce our 2008 commitment to Norstel. We expect to purchase approximately $4.0 million of SiC crystals in 2008, down from $11.5 million in 2007. We have no assurance that the quality of the raw material crystals we receive will not be affected by the reduced purchase levels or that our raw material suppliers will be able to timely deliver increased quantities to us should we require a return to a higher level of purchases. Additionally, due to our lower purchase commitments, we have experienced price increases that will affect future gross margin percentages. The reduction in raw material purchases could have a negative long-term impact on our relationships with our suppliers. In addition, we intend to significantly reduce the amount of jewels we facet during 2008. We believe our primary supplier of faceting services, JMB, is substantially dependent on our business to fund its operations. We can not be assured that JMB will be able to continue in business with our reduced faceting levels. If JMB were to go out of business, we would need to increase the capacity for faceting moissanite jewels at the other two suppliers of this service. We have no assurance that these other suppliers of faceting services could meet our demand for increased capacity on a timely basis or that we will not experience increased prices for our faceting services. We expect to remain dependent upon Cree for the supply of most of our SiC crystals for the foreseeable future. Cree has certain proprietary rights relating to its process for growing large single crystals of SiC and its process for growing colorless SiC crystals. Under our Exclusive Supply Agreement with Cree, we are obligated to buy from Cree, and Cree is obligated to sell to us, at least 50%, by dollar volume, of our 16 Table of Contents requirements for SiC material for the production of gemstones in each calendar quarter. In February 2005, we entered into an Exclusive Supply Agreement with Norstel, which was amended in March 2007. The quantities of SiC crystals received from Norstel through 2007 have been less than 1% of total annual purchases. Our ability to decrease our reliance on Cree, in the short term, is contingent on Norstel being capable of producing quality crystals in higher quantities than it has in the past. Although we expect purchases from Norstel during 2008 to significantly increase as a percentage of total purchases, we remain dependent on Cree for most of our supply of lab-grown SiC crystals. While Cree has improved its production processes and is currently producing SiC crystals sufficient to meet our requirements, we have experienced difficulties in the past in obtaining crystals from Cree in the quality, sizes and volumes that we desired. There can be no assurance that Cree will be able to continue to produce and supply us with SiC crystals of sufficient quality, sizes and volumes that we desire nor that we will successfully negotiate purchase commitments that enable us to manage our inventories and raw material costs effectively. In addition, although Norstel represents a potential additional source of supply, Norstel has not yet proven to have the capability to produce significant quantities of SiC crystals of suitable quality and sizes, and there can be no assurance that it will ever develop these capabilities. Through the first two months of 2008, Norstel has delivered $96,000 of SiC crystals compared to $119,000 delivered during all of 2007. For the sale of our jewels in North America, we are substantially dependent on Reeves Park, Samuel Aaron International and Stuller Settings, Inc., as well as a limited number of other distributors and jewelry manufacturers. We anticipate that the majority of the moissanite jewels that we sell in North America will be distributed through Reeves Park, SAI, and Stuller, as well as a limited number of other manufacturers and distributors, and therefore, we are substantially dependent upon these companies for distribution of moissanite jewels in North America. During the year ended December 31, 2007, Reeves Park, SAI, and Stuller accounted for 20%, 19%, and 14% of total sales, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2007, K&G Creations represented 11% of our total sales. We have terminated our manufacturing agreement with K&G Creations and K&G Creations is not expected to be a manufacturer of moissanite jewelry in 2008. We are working with the retailers previously supplied by K&G Creations to establish relationships between those retail accounts and new manufacturers, and likely will experience a short-term negative impact on our results of operations during this transition period. The financial difficulties or insolvency of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect results. We are subject to a concentration of credit risk amongst our major customers and a default by any of these customers on their debts to us could have a material adverse affect on our financial position. Future sales and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of customers. We estimate an allowance for accounts for which collectibility is at risk and this allowance adversely impacts profitability. In the event customers experience greater than anticipated financial difficulties or insolvency, profitability would be expected to be adversely impacted by the Company’s failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. We are subject to certain risks due to our international distribution channels and vendors. We currently have approximately 30 international distributors for moissanite jewels covering substantially all of Western Europe, Australia, India, and certain countries in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. Our long-term strategy is to expand the number of international markets for our products. In addition, we expect to continue to use certain companies based outside the United States to facet our moissanite jewels. Due to our reliance on development of foreign markets and use of foreign vendors, we are subject to the risks of conducting business outside of the United States. These risks include the following: • the adverse effects on United States-based companies operating in foreign markets that might result from war, terrorism, changes in diplomatic, trade or business relationships or other political, social, religious or economic instability; • unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; • delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses; • tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; and 17 Table of Contents • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and other factors beyond our control. Additionally, while the majority of all foreign transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars, foreign currency fluctuations could impact demand for our products or the ability of our foreign suppliers to continue to perform. Further, some of these distributors operate relatively small businesses and may not have the financial stability to assure their continuing presence in their markets. There can be no assurance that the foregoing factors will not adversely affect our operations in the future or require us to modify our anticipated business practices. Our future financial performance depends upon growth and consumer acceptance of our products. We believe that many retail jewelers and most consumers are not generally aware of the existence and attributes of moissanite jewels. The market for moissanite jewels among retail jewelers and consumers is in the early stages of development. Total moissanite jewelry retail sales during the year ended December 31, 2007 were less than 1% of the total jewelry market. The degree of future market acceptance and demand are subject to a significant amount of uncertainty. Our future financial performance will depend upon greater consumer acceptance of moissanite jewels as distinct from all other jewels based on their fire, brilliance, luster, durability and rarity. In addition, consumer acceptance may be affected by retail jewelers’ and jewelry manufacturers’ acceptance of moissanite jewels. We market loose jewels which jewelry distributors, manufacturers and retailers set in jewelry and in turn distribute or sell to consumers. The quality, design and workmanship of the jewelry settings selected by retail jewelers, which is not within our control, could affect our consumers’ perception and acceptance of our jewels. Thus, our future financial performance may be affected by: • the willingness and ability of our jewelry distributors and other jewelry suppliers, manufacturers and designers to market and promote moissanite jewels to the retail jewelry trade; • the willingness of distributors, retailers and others in the channel of distribution to purchase loose moissanite jewels and the willingness of manufacturers, designers and retail jewelers to undertake setting of the loose jewels; • the ability of manufacturers, designers and retail jewelers to select jewelry settings that encourage consumer acceptance of and demand for our jewels; • the ability of jewelry manufacturers and retail jewelers to set loose moissanite jewels in jewelry with high quality workmanship; and • the ability of retail jewelers to effectively market and sell moissanite jewelry to consumers. If our products do not receive greater market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We rely upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We have United States product and method patents for moissanite jewels under which we believe that we have broad, exclusive rights to manufacture, use and sell moissanite jewels in the United States. We have these same patents in a number of foreign jurisdictions. We believe that these patents create substantial technological barriers to our potential competitors. At the present time, we are also dependent on Cree’s technology for the production of SiC crystals. Cree is exclusively licensed to use a patent concerning a process for growing large single crystals of SiC, has certain patents of its own relating to growth of large single crystals of SiC and has a patent for a process for growing colorless SiC crystals. If Norstel becomes a significant additional source of supply, we will also become dependent on its technology. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to or licensed by or to us, Cree or Norstel will provide any significant commercial protection, that we, Cree or Norstel will have sufficient resources to prosecute our respective patents or that any patents will be upheld by a court should we, or our suppliers seek to enforce our respective rights against an infringer. The existence of valid patents does not prevent other companies from independently developing competing technologies as evidenced by our agreement 18 Table of Contents with Norstel. Existing producers of SiC crystals or others may refine existing processes for growing SiC crystals or develop new technologies for growing large single crystals of SiC or colorless SiC crystals in a manner that does not infringe patents owned or licensed by us, Cree or Norstel. In addition, existing producers of SiC crystals, existing producers of other synthetic or natural gemstones or other parties may develop new technologies for producing moissanite jewels in a manner that does not infringe patents owned or licensed by us, Cree or Norstel. As a result of the foregoing factors, existing and potential competitors may be able to develop products that are competitive with or superior to our products, and such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends upon our ability to identify, reach agreements with and work successfully with third parties. In addition to our current dependence on Cree and on third party distribution channels, our prospects depend upon our ability to identify, reach agreements with and work successfully with other third parties. In particular, we rely on third parties to facet our jewels. Faceting moissanite jewels requires different techniques than faceting diamonds and other gemstones. There can be no assurance that we can maintain our relationships with our faceting vendors on terms satisfactory to us or that faceting vendors will continue to be able to provide faceting services in the quality and quantities required by us or that we will be able to find suitable replacements if we are unable to maintain such relationships. Our failure to achieve any of the above would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Governmental regulation and oversight might adversely impact our operations. We are subject to governmental regulations in the manufacture and sale of moissanite jewels. In particular, the Federal Trade Commission has the power to restrict the offer and sale of products that could deceive or have the tendency or effect of misleading or deceiving purchasers or prospective purchasers with regard to its type, kind, quality, character, origin or other characteristics. We may be under close scrutiny both by governmental agencies and by competitors in the gemstone industry, any of which may challenge our promotion and marketing of our moissanite jewel products. If our production or marketing of moissanite jewels is challenged by governmental agencies or competitors, or if regulations are issued that restrict our ability to market our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our reputation among jewelers and consumers could be damaged if low-quality gemstones or synthetics are marketed as moissanite. It is possible that low-quality gemstones or other synthetics could be marketed as moissanite. The sale of low-quality products as moissanite could damage our ability to foster the perception of moissanite as a unique jewel that compares favorably to other fine gemstones like diamond, ruby and emerald. This could damage our reputation among retail jewelers and consumers and result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products. The introduction of low-quality imitation moissanite jewels and our inability to limit the adverse effects thereof could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We face competition in the worldwide jewelry industry. The jewelry industry is highly competitive and we compete with numerous other jewelry products, including diamonds, cubic zirconium, and watches, among others. In addition, despite the positioning of moissanite as a unique jewel, we face competition from treated diamonds, synthetic diamonds, and companies developing other synthetic jewelry technologies. A substantial number of companies supply products to the jewelry industry, many of which we believe have greater financial resources than we do. Competitors could develop new or improved technologies that may render the pricing point for moissanite noncompetitive, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Sales of moissanite jewelry could be dependent upon the pricing of precious metals, which is beyond our control. Any increases in the market price of precious metals (primarily gold) could affect the pricing and sales of jewelry incorporating moissanite jewels. The majority of price increases in precious metals are passed on to the consumer in the form of higher prices for finished jewelry. These higher prices could have a negative impact on the sell through of moissanite jewelry at the retail level. From the 19 Table of Contents beginning of 2006 to the end of 2007, the price of gold has increased significantly (approximately 60%), resulting in higher retail price points for gold jewelry. This has had a negative impact on both sales of moissanite jewelry and the jewelry industry as a whole. We currently encourage our customers to only set moissanite jewels in jewelry with a gold quality of 14 Karat or better or Platinum. Due to the high gold prices, we are currently reassessing this strategy. If the trading price of our common stock fails to comply with the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market, we would face possible delisting, which would result in a limited public market for our common stock and make obtaining future debt or equity financing more difficult for us. Our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Global Market and is subject to certain listing requirements, including the requirement that the closing bid price for our shares of common stock not trade below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. On February 29, 2008 the price of our shares was $1.28. If we do not continue to comply with the NASDAQ listing requirements, NASDAQ may provide written notification to us regarding the de-listing of our securities. At that time, we would have the right to request a hearing to appeal the NASDAQ determination and would also have the option to apply to transfer our securities to The NASDAQ Capital Market. We cannot be sure that our price will comply with the requirements for continued listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market, or that any appeal of a decision to de-list our common stock will be successful. If our common stock loses its status on The NASDAQ Global Market and we are not successful in obtaining a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, shares of our common stock would likely trade in the over-the-counter market bulletin board, commonly referred to as the “pink sheets.” If our stock were to trade on the over-the-counter market, selling our common stock could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event our common stock is de-listed, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, further limiting the liquidity thereof. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of common stock. Such de-listing from The NASDAQ Global Market or future declines in our stock price could also greatly impair our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing, and could significantly increase the ownership dilution to stockholders caused by our issuing equity in financing or other transactions. Some anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents, agreements and plans may delay or prevent a takeover of the Company. A number of provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws impact matters of corporate governance and the rights of shareholders. Certain of these provisions have an anti-takeover effect and may delay or prevent takeover attempts not first approved by the Board of Directors (including takeovers that certain shareholders may deem to be in their best interests). These provisions also could delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors or the assumption of control by shareholders. We believe that these provisions are appropriate to protect our interests and all of our shareholders. Under the terms of the Exclusive Supply Agreement, we are prohibited from entering into an exclusive marketing or distribution agreement with DeBeers or its affiliates or any party whose primary business is the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of diamond gemstones or any non-gemstone and non-jewelry industry competitor of Cree. The Agreement also prohibits us from entering into certain merger, acquisition, sale of assets or similar transactions with a prohibited party. These provisions of the Exclusive Supply Agreement with Cree could limit the price that third parties might be willing to pay in the future for some or all of the shares of our common stock. In addition, this agreement could prevent us from entering into certain potentially profitable transactions with such prohibited parties. 20 Table of Contents On February 21, 1999, we adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan under which all shareholders of record as of March 8, 1999, received rights to purchase shares of a new series of Preferred Stock. Each share of common stock issued after March 8, 1999 has received the same rights. The Rights Plan is designed to enable all of our shareholders to realize the full value of their investment and to provide for fair and equal treatment for all shareholders in the event that an unsolicited attempt is made to acquire us. The adoption of the Rights Plan is intended as a means to guard against abusive takeover tactics and is not in response to any particular proposal. The Rights, which expire in 2009, will be exercisable only if a person or group acquires 20% or more of our common stock or announces a tender offer for 20% or more of the common stock. If a person or group acquires 20% or more of our common stock, all shareholders except the purchaser will be entitled to acquire our common stock at a 50% discount. The effect will be to discourage acquisitions of more than 20% of our common stock without negotiations with the Board of Directors of the Company. The Rights will trade with our common stock, unless and until they are separated upon the occurrence of certain future events. Our Board of Directors may redeem the Rights prior to the expiration of a specified period following the acquisition of more than 20% of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 