ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect Wintrust are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair Wintrust’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our securities could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Operating Environment Difficult economic conditions have adversely affected our company and the financial services industry in general and further deterioration in economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The U.S. economy was in a recession from the third quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2009, and economic activity continues to be restrained. The housing and real estate markets have also been experiencing extraordinary slowdowns since 2007. Additionally, unemployment rates remained historically high during these periods. These factors have had a significant negative effect on us and other companies in the financial services industry. As a lending institution, our business is directly affected by the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, as well as by the value of collateral, such as real estate, that secures many of our loans. Market turmoil has led to an increase in charge-offs and has negatively impacted consumer confidence and the level of business activity. However, net charge-offs decreased to $103.3 million in 2011 from $109.7 million in 2010 and non-performing loans decreased to $120.1 million as of December 31, 2011 from $142.0 million as of December 31, 2010. Our balance of other real estate owned (“OREO”) was $86.5 million at December 31, 2011 and $71.2 million at December 31, 2010. Continued weakness or further deterioration in the economy, real estate markets or unemployment rates, particularly in the markets in which we operate, will likely diminish the ability of our borrowers to repay loans that we have given them, the value of any collateral securing such loans and may cause increases in delinquencies, problem assets, charge-offs and provision for credit losses, all of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, the underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted may not prevent losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Since our business is concentrated in the Chicago metropolitan area and southeast Wisconsin metropolitan areas, further declines in the economy of this region could adversely affect our business. Except for our premium finance business and certain other niche businesses, our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Chicago metropolitan and southeast Wisconsin metropolitan areas. The local economic conditions in these areas significantly impact the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. Specifically, most of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate located in the Chicago metropolitan area. Our local market area has experienced recent negative changes in overall market conditions relating to real estate valuation. These market conditions are exacerbated by the liquidation of troubled assets into the market, which creates additional supply and drives appraised valuations of real estate lower. Further declines in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors impacting these local markets could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Continued deterioration in the real estate markets where collateral for our mortgage loans is located could adversely affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan, and in turn the value of our assets. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb losses that may occur in our loan portfolio, our financial condition and liquidity could suffer. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that is intended to absorb credit losses that we expect to incur in our loan portfolio. At each balance sheet date, our management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses based on our estimate of probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio, taking into account probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and credit undertakings that are not specifically identified. Because our allowance for loan losses represents an estimate of probable losses, there is no certainty that it will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in the portfolio, particularly if there is continued deterioration in general economic or market conditions or events that adversely affect specific customers. In 2011, we charged off $103.3 million in loans (net of recoveries) and decreased our allowance for loan losses from $113.9 million at December 31, 2010 to $110.4 million at December 31, 2011. Our allowance for loan losses, excluding covered loans, represents 1.05% of total loans outstanding at December 31, 2011, compared to 1.19% at December 31, 2010. Estimating loan loss allowances for our newer banks is more difficult because rapidly growing and de novo 17 bank loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. Therefore, our newer bank subsidiaries may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than banks with more seasoned loan portfolios. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio, if our estimates are inaccurate and our actual loan losses exceed the amount that is anticipated, our financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. For more information regarding our allowance for loan losses, see “Loan Portfolio and Asset Quality” under Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial loans, the repayment of which is largely dependent upon the financial success and economic viability of the borrower. The repayment of our commercial loans is dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower. If the economy remains weak for a prolonged period or experiences further deterioration or if the industry or market in which the borrower operates weakens, our borrowers may experience depressed or dramatic and sudden decreases in revenues that could hinder their ability to repay their loans. Our commercial loan portfolio totaled $2.5 billion, or 22% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2011, compared to $2.0 billion, or 21% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2010. Commercial loans are secured by different types of collateral related to the underlying business, such as accounts receivable, inventory and equipment. Should a commercial loan require us to foreclose on the underlying collateral, the unique nature of the collateral may make it more difficult and costly to liquidate, thereby increasing the risk to us of not recovering the principal amount of the loan. Accordingly, our business, results of operation and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by defaults in this portfolio. A substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, in particular commercial real estate. Continued deterioration in the real estate markets could lead to additional losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 31% of our total loan portfolio was secured by real estate, compared to approximately 34% as of December 31, 2010, the majority of which is commercial real estate. The commercial and residential real estate market continues to experience a variety of difficulties. In particular, market conditions in the Chicago metropolitan area, in which a majority of our real estate loans are concentrated, have declined significantly beginning in 2007. As a result of increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies and declining real estate values, which reduce the customer’s borrowing power and the value of the collateral securing the loan, for the last five years, we have experienced higher than normal levels of charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Increases in commercial and consumer delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate market values would require increased net charge-offs and increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unanticipated changes in prevailing interest rates and the effects of changing regulation could adversely affect our net interest income, which is our largest source of income. Wintrust is exposed to interest rate risk in its core banking activities of lending and deposit taking, since changes in prevailing interest rates affect the value of our assets and liabilities. Such changes may adversely affect our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income and interest expense. Our net interest income is affected by the fact that assets and liabilities reprice at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change. Net interest income represents our largest source of net income, and was $461.4 million and $415.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Each of our businesses may be affected differently by a given change in interest rates. For example, we expect that the results of our mortgage banking business in selling loans into the secondary market would be negatively impacted during periods of rising interest rates, whereas falling interest rates could have a negative impact on the net interest spread earned on deposits as we would be unable to lower the rates on many interest bearing deposit accounts of our customers to the same extent as many of our higher yielding asset classes. Additionally, increases in interest rates may adversely influence the growth rate of loans and deposits, the quality of our loan portfolio, loan and deposit pricing, the volume of loan originations in our mortgage banking business and the value that we can recognize on the sale of mortgage loans in the secondary market. We seek to mitigate our interest rate risk through several strategies, which may not be successful. With the relatively low interest rates that prevailed in recent years, we were able to augment the total return of our investment securities portfolio by selling call options on fixed-income securities that we own. We recorded fee income of approximately $13.6 million, $2.2 million and $2.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We also mitigate our interest rate risk by entering into interest rate 18 swaps and other interest rate derivative contracts from time to time with counterparties. To the extent that the market value of any derivative contract moves to a negative market value, we are subject to loss if the counterparty defaults. In the future, there can be no assurance that such mitigation strategies will be available or successful. Our liquidity position may be negatively impacted if economic conditions continue to suffer. Liquidity is a measure of whether our cash flows and liquid assets are sufficient to satisfy current and future financial obligations, such as demand for loans, deposit withdrawals and operating costs. Our liquidity position is affected by a number of factors, including the amount of cash and other liquid assets on hand, payment of interest and dividends on debt and equity instruments that we have issued, capital we inject into our bank subsidiaries, proceeds we raise through the issuance of securities, our ability to draw upon our revolving credit facility and dividends received from our banking subsidiaries. Our future liquidity position may be adversely affected by multiple factors, including: • if our banking subsidiaries report net losses or their earnings are weak relative to our cash flow needs; • if it is necessary for us to make capital injections to our banking subsidiaries; • if changes in regulations require us to maintain a greater level of capital, as more fully described below; • if we are unable to access our revolving credit facility due to a failure to satisfy financial and other covenants; or • if we are unable to raise additional capital on terms that are satisfactory to us. Continued weakness or worsening of the economy, real estate markets or unemployment levels may increase the likelihood that one or more of these events will occur. If our liquidity is adversely effected, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is very competitive, and if we are not able to compete effectively, we may lose market share and our business could suffer. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services (including wealth management services) throughout our market area. Our competitors include national, regional and other community banks, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, factoring companies and other non-bank financial companies. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and market presence than Wintrust and, as a result of their size, may be able to offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and payment systems, and for banks that do not have a physical presence in our markets to compete for deposits. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service and high ethical standards; • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; • the ability to expand our market position; • the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; • customer satisfaction with our level of service; and • industry and general economic trends. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share and income from deposits, loans and other products may be reduced. This could adversely affect our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 If we are unable to continue to identify favorable acquisitions or successfully integrate our acquisitions, our growth may be limited and our results of operations could suffer. In the past several years, we have completed numerous acquisitions of banks, other financial service related companies and financial service related assets, including acquisitions of troubled financial institutions, as more fully described below. We expect to continue to make such acquisitions in the future. Wintrust seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Failure to successfully identify and complete acquisitions likely will result in Wintrust achieving slower growth. Acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities or asset quality issues of the target company; • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; • potential disruption to our business, including diversion of our management’s time and attention; • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; • difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and • potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of Wintrust’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur as a result of any future transaction. In addition, certain acquisitions may expose us to additional regulatory risks, including from foreign governments. Our ability to comply with any such regulations will impact the success of any such acquisitions. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our participation in FDIC-assisted acquisitions may present additional risks to our financial condition and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we have made opportunistic partial acquisitions of troubled financial institutions in transactions facilitated by the FDIC, including our recent acquisitions of Community First Bank, The Bank of Commerce and First Chicago Bank & Trust through our bank subsidiaries. These acquisitions, and any future FDIC-assisted transactions we may undertake, involve greater risk than traditional acquisitions because they are typically conducted on an accelerated basis, allowing less time for us to prepare for and evaluate possible transactions, or to prepare for integration of an acquired institution. These transactions also present risks of customer loss, strain on management resources related to collection and management of problem loans and problems related to the integration of operations and personnel of the acquired financial institutions. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the financial institutions we acquire, or that we will realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. Additionally, while the FDIC may agree to assume certain losses in transactions that it facilitates, there can be no assurances that we would not be required to raise additional capital as a condition to, or as a result of, participation in an FDIC-assisted transaction. Any such transactions and related issuances of stock may have dilutive effect on earnings per share. Furthermore, we may face competition from other financial institutions with respect to proposed FDIC-assisted transactions. We are also subject to certain risks relating to our loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. Under a loss sharing agreement, the FDIC generally agrees to reimburse the acquiring bank for a portion of any losses relating to covered assets of the acquired financial institution. This is an important financial term of any FDIC-assisted transaction, as troubled financial institutions often have poorer asset quality. As a condition to reimbursement, however, the FDIC requires the acquiring bank to follow certain servicing procedures. A failure to follow servicing procedures or any other breach of a loss sharing agreement by us could result in the loss of FDIC reimbursement. While we have established a group dedicated to servicing the loans covered by the FDIC loss sharing agreements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the FDIC servicing procedures. In addition, reimbursable losses and recoveries under loss sharing agreements are based on the book value of the relevant loans and other assets as determined by the FDIC as of the effective dates of the acquisitions. The amount that the acquiring banks realize on these assets could differ materially from the carrying value that will be reflected in our financial statements, based upon the timing and amount of collections on the covered loans in future periods. Any failure to receive reimbursement, or any material differences between the amount of reimbursements that we do receive and the carrying value reflected in our financial statements, could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 An actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength may cause others to reduce or cease doing business with us, which could result in a decrease in our net interest income. Our customers rely upon our financial strength and stability and evaluate the risks of doing business with us. If we experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, including due to market or regulatory developments, announced or rumored business developments or results of operations, or a decline in stock price, customers may withdraw their deposits or otherwise seek services from other banking institutions and prospective customers may select other service providers. The risk that we may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is increased in the current market environment, where the consolidation of financial institutions, including major global financial institutions, is resulting in a smaller number of much larger counterparties and competitors. If customers reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services that we provide them, net interest income and fee revenues will decrease accordingly, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If our growth requires us to raise additional capital, that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations (see “-Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment-If we fail to meet our regulatory capital ratios, we may be forced to raise capital or sell assets”) and as we grow, internally and through acquisitions, the amount of capital required to support our operations grows as well. We may need to raise additional capital to support continued growth both internally and through acquisitions. Any capital we obtain may result in the dilution of the interests of existing holders of our common stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time which are outside our control and on our financial condition and performance. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, or on terms acceptable to us, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and negatively affected. Disruption in the financial markets could result in lower fair values for our investment securities portfolio. The Company’s available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value. Major disruptions in the capital markets experienced in the past three years have adversely affected investor demand for all classes of securities and resulted in volatility in the fair values of the Company’s investment securities. Accounting standards require the Company to categorize these according to a fair value hierarchy. Over 96% of the Company’s available-for-sale securities were categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy (meaning that their fair values were determined by quoted prices for similar assets or other observable inputs). Significant prolonged reduced investor demand could manifest itself in lower fair values for these securities and may result in recognition of an other-than-temporary or permanent impairment of these assets, which could lead to accounting charges and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The remaining securities in our investment securities portfolio were categorized as level 3 (meaning that their fair values were determined by inputs that are unobservable in the market and therefore require a greater degree of management judgment). The determination of fair value for securities categorized in level 3 involves significant judgment due to the complexity of factors contributing to the valuation, many of which are not readily observable in the market. The current market disruptions make valuation of such securities even more difficult and subjective. In addition, the nature of the business of the third party source that is valuing the securities at any given time could impact the valuation of the securities. Consequently, the ultimate sales price for any of these securities could vary significantly from the recorded fair value at December 31, 2011, especially if the security is sold during a period of illiquidity or market disruption or as part of a large block of securities under a forced transaction. There can be no assurance that decline in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary or permanent impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges which could have a material negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New lines of business and new products and services are essential to our ability to compete but may subject us to additional risks. We continually implement new lines of business and offer new products and services within existing lines of business to offer our customers a competitive array of products and services. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology can increase efficiency and enable financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. However, some new technologies needed to compete effectively result in incremental operating costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many of our competitors, because of their larger size and available capital, have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could cause a loss of customers and have a material adverse effect on our business. 21 At the same time, there can be substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets for such services are still developing. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products or services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Failures of our information technology systems may adversely effect our operations. We are increasingly depending upon computer and other information technology systems to manage our business. We rely upon information technology systems to process, record and monitor and disseminate information about our operations. In some cases, we depend on third parties to provide or maintain these systems. While we perform a review of controls instituted by our critical vendors in accordance with industry standards, we must rely on the continued maintenance of these controls by the outside party, including safeguards over the security of customer data. If any of our financial, accounting or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Security breaches in our online banking systems could also have an adverse effect on our reputation and could subject us to possible liability. Our systems may also be affected by events that are beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses, electrical or telecommunications outages or other damage to our property or assets. Although we take precautions against malfunctions and security breaches, our efforts may not be adequate to prevent problems that could materially adversely effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information we receive about our customers and counterparties to make credit decisions. We rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions. This information could include financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. We also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel, our ability to provide high quality service will be diminished and our results of operations may suffer. We believe that our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, including our senior management and other key personnel. Our business model is dependent upon our ability to provide high quality, personal service at our community banks. In addition, as a holding company that conducts its operations through our subsidiaries, we are focused on providing entrepreneurial-based compensation to the chief executives of each our business units. As a Company with start-up and growth oriented operations, we are cognizant that to attract and retain the managerial talent necessary to operate and grow our businesses we often have to compensate our executives with a view to the business we expect them to manage, rather than the size of the business they currently manage. Accordingly, executive compensation restrictions such as those we were subject to during our participation in the CPP, as well any restrictions we may subject to in the future, may negatively impact our ability to retain and attract senior management. The loss of any of our senior managers or other key personnel, or our inability to identify, recruit and retain such personnel, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. In addition, we own and operate a number of properties that may be subject to similar environmental liability risks. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and could materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Company’s ability to use or sell the affected property. The costs associated with investigation and remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Losses incurred in connection with actual or projected repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages that we have sold into the secondary market may exceed our financial statement reserves and we may be required to increase such reserves in the future. Increases to our reserves and losses incurred in connection with actual loan repurchases and indemnification payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows. We engage in the origination and purchase of residential mortgages for sale into the secondary market. In connection with such sales, we make certain representations and warranties, which, if breached, may require us to repurchase such loans, substitute other loans or indemnify the purchasers of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. Due, in part, to recent increased mortgage payment delinquency rates and declining housing prices, we have been receiving such requests for loan repurchases and indemnification payments relating to the representations and warranties with respect to such loans. We have been able to reach settlements with a number of purchasers, and believe that we have established appropriate reserves with respect to indemnification requests. While we have recently received fewer requests for indemnification, it is possible that the number of such requests will increase or that we will not be able to reach settlements with respect to such requests in the future. Accordingly, it is possible that losses incurred in connection with loan repurchases and indemnification payments may be in excess of our financial statement reserves, and we may be required to increase such reserves and may sustain additional losses associated with such loan repurchases and indemnification payments in the future. Increases to our reserves and losses incurred by us in connection with actual loan repurchases and indemnification payments in excess of our reserves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely impacted by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including the Federal home Loan bank, commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition our credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due to us. Any such losses could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Europe’s debt crisis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. The possibility that certain European Union (“EU”) member states will default on their debt obligations have negatively impacted economic conditions and global markets. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of international and the EU’s financial support programs and the possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets could also have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. De novo operations and branch openings often involve significant expenses and delayed returns and may negatively impact Wintrust’s profitability. Our financial results have been and will continue to be impacted by our strategy of de novo bank formations and branch openings. While the recent financial crisis and interest rate environment has caused us to open fewer de novo banks, we expect to undertake additional de novo bank formations or branch openings when market conditions improve. Based on our experience, we believe that it generally takes over 13 months for de novo banks to first achieve operational profitability, depending on the number of banking facilities opened, the impact of organizational and overhead expenses, the start-up phase of generating deposits and the time lag typically involved in redeploying deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. However, it may take longer than expected or than the amount of time Wintrust has historically experienced for new banks and/or banking facilities to reach profitability, and there can be no guarantee that these new banks or branches will ever be profitable. Moreover, the FDIC’s recent issuance extending the enhanced supervisory period for de novo banks from three to seven years, including higher capital requirements during this period, could also delay a new bank’s ability to contribute to the Company’s earnings and impact the Company’s willingness to expand through de novo bank formation. To the extent we undertake additional de novo bank, branch and business formations, our level of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets will be impacted by startup costs associated with such operations, and it is likely to continue to experience the effects of higher expenses relative to operating income from the new operations. These expenses may be higher than we expected or than our experience has shown, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 We are subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities, and changes in federal and state tax laws and changes in interpretation of existing laws can impact our financial results. In the normal course of business, we, as well as our subsidiaries, are routinely subject to examinations from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments we have made and the businesses in which we have engaged. Recently, federal and state tax authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to among other things tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Given the current economic and political environment and ongoing budgetary pressures, the enactment of new federal or state tax legislation may occur. The enactment of such legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing law, including provisions impacting tax rates, apportionment, consolidation or combination, income, expenses and credits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards could materially adversely affect how we report our financial results and financial condition. Our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our financial results and financial condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If such estimates or assumptions underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. We are a bank holding company, and our sources of funds, including to pay dividends, are limited. We are a bank holding company and our operations are primarily conducted by and through our 15 operating banks, which are subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to our stockholders, repurchase our shares or repay our indebtedness is derived primarily from dividends received from our banks and our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries is restricted. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our banks can pay to us without regulatory approval. The banks may not pay cash dividends if that payment could reduce the amount of their capital below that necessary to meet the “adequately capitalized” level in accordance with regulatory capital requirements. It is also possible that, depending upon the financial condition of the banks and other factors, regulatory authorities could conclude that payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to us, is an unsafe or unsound practice and impose restrictions or prohibit such payments. Our inability to receive dividends from the banks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and Illinois law may have the effect of impeding the acquisition of control of Wintrust by means of a tender offer, a proxy fight, open-market purchases or otherwise in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. For example, our board of directors may issue additional authorized shares of our capital stock to deter future attempts to gain control of Wintrust, including the authority to determine the terms of any one or more series of preferred stock, such as voting rights, conversion rates and liquidation preferences. As a result of the ability to fix voting rights for a series of preferred stock, the board has the power, to the extent consistent with its fiduciary duty, to issue a series of preferred stock to persons friendly to management in order to attempt to block a merger or other transaction by which a third party seeks control, and thereby assist the incumbent board of directors and management to retain their respective positions. In addition, our articles of incorporation expressly elect to be governed by the provisions of Section 7.85 of the Illinois Business Corporation Act, which would make it more difficult for another party to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. The ability of a third party to acquire us is also limited under applicable banking regulations. The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 requires any “bank holding company” (as defined in that Act) to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve prior to acquiring more than 5% of our outstanding common stock. Any person other than a bank holding company is required to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve to acquire 10% or more of our outstanding common stock under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978. Any holder of 25% or more of our outstanding common stock, other than an individual, is subject to regulation as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act. For purposes of calculating ownership thresholds under these banking regulations, bank regulators would likely at least take the position that the minimum number of shares, and could take the position that the maximum number of shares, of Wintrust common stock that a holder is entitled to receive pursuant to securities convertible into or settled in Wintrust common stock, including pursuant to Wintrust’s tangible equity units or warrants to purchase Wintrust common stock held by such holder, must be taken into account in calculating a stockholder’s aggregate holdings of Wintrust common stock. 24 These provisions may have the effect of discouraging a future takeover attempt that is not approved by our board of directors but which our individual shareholders may deem to be in their best interests or in which our shareholders may receive a substantial premium for their shares over then-current market prices. As a result, shareholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. Such provisions will also render the removal of our current board of directors or management more difficult. Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment If we fail to meet our regulatory capital ratios, we may be forced to raise capital or sell assets. As a banking institution, we are subject to regulations that require us to maintain certain capital ratios, such as the ratio of our Tier 1 capital to our risk-based assets. If our regulatory capital ratios decline, as a result of decreases in the value of our loan portfolio or otherwise, we will be required to improve such ratios by either raising additional capital or by disposing of assets. If we choose to dispose of assets, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so at prices that we believe to be appropriate, and our future operating results could be negatively affected. If we choose to raise additional capital, we may accomplish this by selling additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock, which could significantly dilute the ownership percentage of holders of our common stock and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Additionally, events or circumstances in the capital markets generally may increase our capital costs and impair our ability to raise capital at any given time. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future regarding the financial services industry may significantly increase our costs or limit our ability to conduct our business in a profitable manner. We are already subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. The cost of compliance with such laws and regulations can be substantial and adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. While we are unable to predict the scope or impact of any potential legislation or regulatory action, bills that would result in significant changes to financial institutions have been introduced in Congress and it is possible that such legislation or implementing regulations could significantly increase our regulatory compliance costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, negatively impact the recoverability of certain of our recorded assets, require us to increase our regulatory capital, interfere with our executive compensation plans, or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner including our plan for de novo growth and growth through acquisitions. President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act on July 21, 2010. This law will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, including heightened capital requirements, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. Although the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will depend, in part, on the form of these rules and regulations, we expect compliance with the new law to increase our cost of doing business, and may reduce our ability to generate revenue-producing assets. The Dodd-Frank Act changes federal preemption available for national banks and eliminates federal preemption for subsidiaries of national banks, which may subject the Company’s national banks and their subsidiaries, including Wintrust Mortgage, to additional state regulation. With regard to mortgage lending, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes new requirements regarding the origination and servicing of residential mortgage loans. The law creates a variety of new consumer protections, including limitations on the manner by which loan originators may be compensated and an obligation of the part of lenders to assess and verify a borrower’s “ability to repay” a residential mortgage loan. The Dodd-Frank Act also enhances provisions relating to affiliate and insider lending restrictions and loans-to-one-borrower limitations. Federal banking law currently limits a national bank’s ability to extend credit to one person (or group of related persons) in an amount exceeding certain thresholds. The Dodd-Frank Act expands the scope of these restrictions to include credit exposure arising from derivative transactions, repurchase agreements, and securities lending and borrowing transactions. It also eventually will prohibit state-chartered banks (including certain of the Company’s banking subsidiaries) from engaging in derivative transactions unless the state lending limit laws take into account credit exposure to such transactions. Additional provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are described in this report under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview and Strategy—Financial Regulatory Reform.” Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies, the full extent of the impact that its requirements will have on our operations is unclear. However, its requirements may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 25 Financial reform legislation may reduce our ability to market our products to consumers and may limit our ability to profitably operate our mortgage business. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “Bureau”) within the Federal Reserve, which will regulate consumer financial products and services. On July 21, 2011, the consumer financial protection functions currently assigned to the federal banking and other designated agencies shifted to the Bureau. The Bureau now has broad rulemaking authority over a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to banks and thrifts, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices,” and to enact regulations to ensure that all consumers have access to markets for consumer financial products and services, and that such markets are fair, transparent and competitive. In particular, the Bureau may enact sweeping reforms in the mortgage broker industry which may increase the costs of engaging in these activities for all market participants, including our subsidiaries. Additionally, the Bureau has broad supervisory, examination and enforcement authority. State attorneys general and other state officials will also be authorized to enforce consumer protection rules issued by the Bureau. Recently enacted financial reform legislation will result in increased capital requirements and is expected to increase our costs of doing business. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the issuance of new banking regulations regarding the establishment of minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for bank holding companies and banks. These regulations, which are required to be effective within 18 months from the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, are required to be no less stringent than current capital requirements applied to insured depository institutions and may, in fact, be higher when established by the agencies. Although Wintrust’s outstanding trust preferred securities will remain eligible for Tier 1 capital treatment, any future issuances of trust preferred securities will not be Tier 1 capital. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the regulatory agencies to seek to make capital requirements for bank holding companies and insured institutions countercyclical, so that capital requirements increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. In December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules requiring annual stress tests. If implemented as proposed, these rules will result in increased compliance costs. International initiatives regarding bank capital requirements may require heightened capital In December 2010 and January 2011, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published reforms regarding changes to bank capital, leverage and liquidity requirements, commonly referred to as “Basel III.” The Basel III rules are intended to apply to large, internationally active banking organizations, and are not generally expected to apply to us. If implemented without change by U.S. banking regulators, the provisions of Basel III may have significant impact on requirements applicable to such large organizations including heightened requirements regarding Tier 1 common equity, and alterations to bank liquidity standards. In addition, while we do not expect to be subject to Basel III, in implementing Basel III, the U.S. federal banking agencies may decide to make similar changes to the capital requirements applicable to other banking organizations, including us. We are not able to predict at this time the content of capital and liquidity guidelines or regulations that may be adopted by regulatory agencies having authority over us and our subsidiaries or the impact that any changes in regulation would have on us. If new standards require us or our banking subsidiaries to maintain more capital, with common equity as a more predominant component, or manage the configuration of our assets and liabilities in order to comply with formulaic liquidity requirements, such regulation could significantly impact our return on equity, financial condition, operations, capital position and ability to pursue business opportunities. Our FDIC insurance premiums may increase, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Recent insured institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline of its deposit insurance fund to historical lows. In addition, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended, increased the limit on FDIC coverage to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2013 (made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act). These developments have caused our FDIC insurance premiums to increase, and may cause additional increases. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may further affect our FDIC insurance premiums. The Dodd- Frank Act includes provisions that change the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to average total consolidated assets less average tangible capital, eliminate the maximum size of the DIF, eliminate the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds, and increase the minimum reserve ratio of the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35%. Beginning in late 2010, the FDIC has issued regulations implementing some of these changes. The FDIC has indicated that the changes to the assessment base, and accompanying changes to the assessment rates, will generally not require an increase in the level of assessments, and may result in decreased assessments, for depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets (such as each of our bank subsidiaries). However, there is a risk that the banks’ deposit insurance premiums will continue to increase if failures of insured depository institutions continue to deplete the DIF. Any such increase may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 26 Risks Related to Our Niche Businesses Our premium finance business may involve a higher risk of delinquency or collection than our other lending operations, and could expose us to losses. We provide financing for the payment of commercial insurance premiums and life insurance premiums on a national basis through our wholly owned subsidiary, FIFC. Commercial insurance premium finance loans involve a different, and possibly higher, risk of delinquency or collection than life insurance premium finance loans and the loan portfolios of our bank subsidiaries because these loans are issued primarily through relationships with a large number of unaffiliated insurance agents and because the borrowers are located nationwide. As a result, risk management and general supervisory oversight may be difficult. As of December 31, 2011, we had $1.4 billion of commercial insurance premium finance loans outstanding, which represented 13% of our total loan portfolio as of such date. FIFC may also be more susceptible to third party fraud with respect to commercial insurance premium finance loans because these loans are originated and many times funded through relationships with unaffiliated insurance agents and brokers. In the second quarter of 2010, fraud perpetrated against a number of premium finance companies in the industry, including the property and casualty division of FIFC, increased both the Company’s net charge-offs and provision for credit losses by $15.7 million. Acts of fraud are difficult to detect and deter, and we cannot assure investors that FIFC’s risk management procedures and controls will prevent losses from fraudulent activity. FIFC may be exposed to the risk of loss in our life insurance premium finance business because of fraud. While FIFC maintains a policy prohibiting the knowing financing of stranger-originated life insurance and has established procedures to identify and prevent the company from financing such policies, FIFC cannot be certain that it will never provide loans with respect to such a policy. In the event such policies were financed, a carrier could potentially put at risk the cash surrender value of a policy, which serves as FIFC’s primary collateral, by challenging the validity of the insurance contract for lack of an insurable interest. See the below risk factor “Widespread financial difficulties or credit downgrades among commercial and life insurance providers could lessen the value of the collateral securing our premium finance loans and impair the financial condition and liquidity of FIFC” for a discussion of further risks associated with our insurance premium finance activities. While FIFC is licensed as required and carefully monitors compliance with regulation of each of its businesses, there can be no assurance that FIFC will not be negatively impacted by material changes in the regulatory environment. Additionally, to the extent that affiliates of insurance carriers, banks, and other lending institutions add greater service and flexibility to their financing practices in the future, our competitive position and results of operations could be adversely affected. FIFC’s life insurance premium finance business could be materially negatively impacted by changes in the federal or state estate tax provisions. There can be no assurance that FIFC will be able to continue to compete successfully in its markets. Widespread financial difficulties or credit downgrades among commercial and life insurance providers could lessen the value of the collateral securing our premium finance loans and impair the financial condition and liquidity of FIFC. FIFC’s premium finance loans are primarily secured by the insurance policies financed by the loans. These insurance policies are written by a large number of insurance companies geographically dispersed throughout the country. Our premium finance receivables balances finance insurance policies which are spread among a large number of insurers; however, one of the insurers represents approximately 15% of such balances and one additional insurer represents approximately 5% of such balances. FIFC consistently monitors carrier ratings and financial performance of our carriers. While FIFC can mitigate its risks as a result of this monitoring to the extent that commercial or life insurance providers experience widespread difficulties or credit downgrades, the value of our collateral will be reduced. FIFC is also subject to the possibility of insolvency of insurance carriers in the commercial and life insurance businesses that are in possession of our collateral. If one or more large nationwide insurers were to fail, the value of our portfolio could be significantly negatively impacted. A significant downgrade in the value of the collateral supporting our premium finance business could impair our ability to create liquidity for this business, which, in turn could negatively impact our ability to expand. If we fail to comply with certain of our covenants under our securitization facility, the holders of the related notes could declare a rapid amortization event, which would require us to repay any outstanding amounts immediately, which could significantly impair our liquidity. In September 2009, our indirect subsidiary, FIFC Premium Funding I, LLC, sold $600 million in aggregate principal amount of its Series 2009-A Premium Finance Asset Backed Notes, Class A (the “Notes”), which were issued in a securitization transaction sponsored by FIFC. The related indenture contains certain financial and other covenants that must be met in order to continue to sell notes into the facility. In addition, if any of these covenants are breached, the holders of the Notes may, under certain circumstances, declare a rapid amortization event, which would require us to repay any outstanding notes immediately. Such an event could significantly impair our liquidity. 27 Our Wealth Management Business in general, and WHI’s brokerage operation, in particular, exposes us to certain risks associated with the securities industry. Our wealth management business in general, and WHI’s brokerage operations in particular, present special risks not borne by community banks that focus exclusively on community banking. For example, the brokerage industry is subject to fluctuations in the stock market that may have a significant adverse impact on transaction fees, customer activity and investment portfolio gains and losses. Likewise, additional or modified regulations may adversely affect our wealth management operations. Each of our wealth management operations is dependent on a small number of professionsals whose departure could result in the loss of a significant number of customer accounts. A significant decline in fees and commissions or trading losses suffered in the investment portfolio could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to claim arbitration risk arising from customers who claim their investments were not suitable or that their portfolios were too actively traded. These risks increase when the market, as as a whole, declines. The risks associated with retail brokerage may not be supported by the income generated by our wealth management operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 