ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following important factors that in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual performance and results and could cause our actual results of operations to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our business and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result of general economic and market conditions, including the current economic crisis. Global financial markets have recently been experiencing extreme disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in the financial markets and the adverse global economic conditions, and if the current uncertainty continues or economic conditions further deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The consequences of such adverse effects could include interruptions or delays in our suppliers’ performance of our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers and/or suppliers. Luxury products, such as fine jewelry, are discretionary purchases for consumers. The recent reduction in consumer discretionary spending, largely attributed to the conditions described above, has affected our industry more significantly than many other industries. Consumer discretionary spending is strongly affected by economic factors outside our control, including the condition of financial markets, consumer credit availability, prevailing interest rates, energy costs, employment levels, salary levels and tax rates. A continued reduction in discretionary consumer spending could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. A further decline in sales could continue to have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. Our annual sales declined from $40.7 million in 2006 to $27.8 million in 2007 to $14.7 million in 2008. A further decline in sales could continue to adversely affect our relationships with our suppliers and distributors and adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. Due to the large inventory position we currently have, we reduced our manufacturing levels in 2008 and expect further reductions in future years until our inventory position is more in line with our sales. Our 2008 raw material purchases were significantly reduced and we expect further reductions in our purchases in 2009. We have no assurance that the quality of the raw material crystals we receive will not be affected by the reduced purchase levels or that our raw material suppliers will be able to timely deliver increased quantities to us should we require a return to a higher level of purchases. Additionally, due to our reduced and deferred purchase commitments, we have experienced significant price increases that will likely reduce future gross margin percentages. The reduction in raw material purchases could have a negative long-term impact on our relationships with our suppliers. In addition, we significantly reduced the amount of jewels we faceted during 2008 and expect further reductions in 2009. We believe our primary supplier of faceting services, JMB, is substantially dependent on our business to fund its operations. To eliminate our minimum monthly commitments for faceting services, we terminated our agreement with JMB in 2008, but we are currently operating with JMB on an “as needed” basis. We can not be assured that JMB will be able to continue in business with our reduced faceting levels. We have no assurance that other suppliers of faceting services could meet our demand on a timely basis or that we will not experience increased prices for our faceting services. Our future financial performance depends upon increased consumer acceptance and growth of sales of our products. We believe that many retail jewelers and most consumers are not generally aware of the existence and attributes of moissanite jewels. The market for moissanite jewels among retail jewelers and consumers is in the early stages of development. Total moissanite jewelry retail sales during the year ended December 31, 2008 were less than 1% of the total jewelry market. The degree of future market acceptance and demand are subject to a significant amount of uncertainty. Our future financial 15 Table of Contents performance will depend upon greater consumer acceptance of moissanite jewels as distinct from all other jewels based on their fire, brilliance, luster, durability and rarity. In addition, consumer acceptance may be affected by retail jewelers’ and jewelry manufacturers’ acceptance of moissanite jewels. We primarily market loose jewels which jewelry distributors, manufacturers and retailers set in jewelry and in turn distribute or sell to consumers. The quality, design and workmanship of the jewelry settings selected by retail jewelers, which is not within our control, could affect consumers’ perception and acceptance of our jewels. Thus, our future financial performance may be affected by: • the willingness and ability of our jewelry distributors and other jewelry suppliers, manufacturers and designers to market and promote moissanite jewels to the retail jewelry trade; • the willingness of distributors, retailers and others in the channel of distribution to purchase loose moissanite jewels and the willingness of manufacturers, designers and retail jewelers to undertake setting of the loose jewels; • the ability of manufacturers, designers and retail jewelers to select jewelry settings that encourage consumer acceptance of and demand for our jewels; • the ability of jewelry manufacturers and retail jewelers to set loose moissanite jewels in jewelry with high quality workmanship; and • the ability of retail jewelers to effectively market and sell moissanite jewelry to consumers. If our products do not receive greater market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. We expect to remain dependent upon Cree for the supply of most of our SiC crystals for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to obtain sufficient, high quality SiC crystals from Cree, and we have a significant increase in demand for our jewel, then we may not be able to meet that demand. Cree has certain proprietary rights relating to its process for growing large single crystals of SiC and its process for growing near-colorless SiC crystals. Under our Exclusive Supply Agreement with Cree, we are obligated to buy from Cree, and Cree is obligated to sell to us, at least 50%, by dollar volume, of our requirements for SiC material for the production of gemstones in each calendar quarter through June 2015. In February 2005, we entered into an exclusive supply agreement with Norstel, which was amended in April 2008 and October 2008. Our ability to decrease our reliance on Cree, in the short term, is contingent on Norstel being capable of producing quality crystals in higher quantities than it has in the past. Norstel provided less than 1% of our raw material purchases in 2006 and 2007 and increased deliveries in 2008 to 21% of our total raw material purchases. Although we expect purchases from Norstel during 2009 to continue to increase as a percentage of total purchases, we remain dependent on Cree for most of our supply of lab-grown SiC crystals. While Cree has improved its production processes and is currently producing SiC crystals sufficient to meet our requirements, we have experienced difficulties in the past in obtaining crystals from Cree in the quality, sizes and volumes that we desired. There can be no assurance that Cree will be able to continue to produce and supply us with SiC crystals of sufficient quality, sizes and volumes that we desire nor that we will successfully negotiate purchase commitments that enable us to manage our inventories and raw material costs effectively. In addition, although Norstel represents a potential additional source of supply, Norstel has not yet proven to have the capability to produce significant quantities of SiC crystals of suitable quality and sizes, and there can be no assurance that it will ever develop these capabilities. For the sale of our jewels in North America, we are currently substantially dependent on Stuller Settings, Inc. and a limited number of other distributors and jewelry manufacturers. We anticipate that the majority of the moissanite jewels that we sell in North America will be distributed through Stuller and a limited number of other manufacturers and distributors, and therefore, we are substantially dependent upon these companies for distribution of moissanite jewels in North America. During the year ended December 31, 2008, Stuller accounted for 21% of total sales. Our three other largest domestic customers collectively accounted for 27% of total sales. In late 2007, we terminated our manufacturing agreement 16 Table of Contents with K&G Creations (one of our largest customers in 2007) and in 2008 we terminated our manufacturing agreement with Reeves Park (one of our largest customers in 2007 and 2008). This disruption in our distribution model was significant and there can be no assurance that retailers previously supplied by K&G Creations and Reeves Park will continue to sell moissanite jewelry. The financial difficulties or insolvency of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect results. We are subject to a concentration of credit risk amongst our major customers and a default by any of these customers on their debts to us could have a material adverse affect on our financial position. Future sales and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of customers. We estimate an allowance for accounts for which collectibility is at risk and this allowance adversely impacts profitability. In the event customers experience greater than anticipated financial difficulties or insolvency, profitability would be expected to be adversely impacted by the Company’s failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. Given the current economic environment, constrained access to capital and general market contractions may heighten our exposure of customer default. We are subject to certain risks due to our international distribution channels and vendors. We currently have approximately 30 international distributors for moissanite jewels covering substantially all of Western Europe, Australia, India, and certain countries in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. Our long-term strategy is to expand the number of international markets for our products. In addition, we expect to continue to use certain companies based outside the United States to facet our moissanite jewels. Due to our reliance on development of foreign markets and use of foreign vendors, we are subject to the risks of conducting business outside of the United States. These risks include the following: • the adverse effects on United States-based companies operating in foreign markets that might result from war, terrorism, changes in diplomatic, trade or business relationships or other political, social, religious or economic instability; • the continuing adverse economic effects of the global financial crisis; • unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; • delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses; • tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; and • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and other factors beyond our control. Additionally, while the majority of our foreign transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars, foreign currency fluctuations could impact demand for our products or the ability of our foreign suppliers to continue to perform. Further, some of these distributors operate relatively small businesses and may not have the financial stability to assure their continuing presence in their markets. There can be no assurance that the foregoing factors will not adversely affect our operations in the future or require us to modify our anticipated business practices. We rely upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We have United States product and method patents for moissanite jewels under which we believe that we have broad, exclusive rights to manufacture, use and sell moissanite jewels in the United States. We have these same patents in a number of foreign jurisdictions. We believe that these patents create substantial technological barriers to our potential competitors. At the present time, we are also dependent on Cree’s technology for the production of SiC crystals. Cree is exclusively licensed to use a patent concerning a process for growing large single crystals of SiC, has certain patents of its own relating to growth of large single crystals of SiC and has a patent for a process for growing near-colorless SiC crystals. If Norstel becomes a significant additional source of supply, we will also become dependent on its technology. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to or licensed by or to us, Cree or Norstel will provide any significant commercial protection, or that we, Cree or Norstel will have sufficient resources to prosecute our respective patents or that any patents will be upheld by a court should we, or our suppliers 17 Table of Contents seek to enforce our respective rights against an infringer. The existence of valid patents does not prevent other companies from independently developing competing technologies. Existing producers of SiC crystals or others may refine existing processes for growing SiC crystals or develop new technologies for growing large single crystals of SiC or colorless SiC crystals in a manner that does not infringe patents owned or licensed by us, Cree or Norstel. In addition, existing producers of SiC crystals, existing producers of other synthetic or natural gemstones or other parties may develop new technologies for producing moissanite jewels in a manner that does not infringe patents owned or licensed by us, Cree or Norstel. As a result of the foregoing factors, existing and potential competitors may be able to develop products that are competitive with or superior to our products, and such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Governmental regulation and oversight might adversely impact our operations. We are subject to governmental regulations in the manufacture and sale of moissanite jewels. In particular, the Federal Trade Commission has the power to restrict the offer and sale of products that could deceive or have the tendency or effect of misleading or deceiving purchasers or prospective purchasers with regard to its type, kind, quality, character, origin or other characteristics. We may be under close scrutiny both by governmental agencies and by competitors in the gemstone industry, any of which may challenge our promotion and marketing of our moissanite jewel products. If our production or marketing of moissanite jewels is challenged by governmental agencies or competitors, or if regulations are issued that restrict our ability to market our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our reputation among jewelers and consumers could be damaged if low-quality gemstones or synthetics are marketed as moissanite. It is possible that low-quality gemstones or other synthetics could be falsely marketed by others as moissanite. The sale of low-quality products as moissanite could damage our ability to foster the perception of moissanite as a unique jewel that compares favorably to other fine gemstones like diamond, ruby and emerald. This could damage our reputation among retail jewelers and consumers and result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products. The introduction of low-quality imitation moissanite jewels and our inability to limit the adverse effects thereof could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We face competition in the worldwide jewelry industry. The jewelry industry is highly competitive and we compete with numerous other jewelry products, including diamonds, cubic zirconia, and watches, among others. In addition, despite the positioning of moissanite as a unique jewel, we face competition from treated diamonds, synthetic diamonds, and companies developing other synthetic jewelry technologies. A substantial number of companies supply products to the jewelry industry, many of which we believe have greater financial resources than we do. Competitors could develop new or improved technologies that may render the pricing point for moissanite noncompetitive, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Sales of moissanite jewelry could be dependent upon the pricing of precious metals, which is beyond our control. Any increases in the market price of precious metals (primarily gold) could affect the pricing and sales of jewelry incorporating moissanite jewels. The majority of price increases in precious metals are passed on to the consumer in the form of higher prices for finished jewelry. These higher prices could have a negative impact on the sell-through of moissanite jewelry at the retail level. From the beginning of 2006 to the end of 2008, the price of gold has increased significantly (approximately 60%), resulting in higher retail price points for gold jewelry. This has had a negative impact on both sales of moissanite jewelry and the jewelry industry as a whole. We currently encourage our customers to set moissanite jewels in jewelry with a gold quality of 14 Karat or higher or in Platinum. Due to high gold prices, we are currently reassessing this strategy and relaxing our Brand Identity Guidelines to allow our customers to set moissanite jewels in settings made from other materials, including silver. 18 Table of Contents Our common stock is currently subject to potential delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. On August 18, 2008, we received a notice from the Listing Qualifications division of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) indicating that our common stock is subject to potential delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market because, for the preceding 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of the Company’s common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 closing bid price requirement for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As a result of the recent extraordinary market conditions, NASDAQ has temporarily suspended its enforcement of the minimum $1.00 closing bid price requirement and announced that it will not take any action to delist any security failing to meet the bid price requirement between October 16, 2008 and July 19, 2009. As a result of the temporary suspension, we currently have until November 18, 2009 to regain compliance with the minimum $1.00 closing bid price requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, barring any further suspensions of these rules. If our common stock loses its status on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, shares of our common stock would likely trade on the over-the-counter market bulletin board, commonly referred to as the “pink sheets.” If our stock were to trade on the over-the-counter market, selling our common stock could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event our common stock is delisted, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, further limiting the liquidity thereof. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of common stock. Some anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents, agreements and plans may delay or prevent a takeover of the Company. A number of provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws impact matters of corporate governance and the rights of shareholders. Certain of these provisions have an anti-takeover effect and may delay or prevent takeover attempts not first approved by the Board of Directors (including takeovers that certain shareholders may deem to be in their best interests). These provisions also could delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors or the assumption of control by shareholders. We believe that these provisions are appropriate to protect our interests and all of our shareholders. Under the terms of the Exclusive Supply Agreement, we are prohibited from entering into an exclusive marketing or distribution agreement with DeBeers or its affiliates or any party whose primary business is the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of diamond gemstones or any non-gemstone and non-jewelry industry competitor of Cree. The Agreement also prohibits us from entering into certain merger, acquisition, sale of assets or similar transactions with a prohibited party. These provisions of the Exclusive Supply Agreement with Cree could limit the price that third parties might be willing to pay in the future for some or all of the shares of our common stock. In addition, this agreement could prevent us from entering into certain potentially profitable transactions with such prohibited parties. On February 21, 1999, we adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan under which all shareholders of record as of March 8, 1999, received rights to purchase shares of a new series of Preferred Stock (the “Rights Plan”). Each share of common stock issued after March 8, 1999 has received the same rights. The Rights Plan, as modified by an amendment dated February 18, 2009, remains in full force and effect. The Rights Plan is designed to enable all of our shareholders to realize the full value of their investment and to provide for fair and equal treatment for all shareholders in the event that an unsolicited attempt is made to acquire us. The adoption of the Rights Plan is intended as a means to guard against abusive takeover tactics and is not in response to any particular proposal. The Rights, which expire in 2019, will be exercisable only if a person or group acquires 20% or more of our common stock or announces a tender offer for 20% or more of the common stock. If a person or group acquires 20% or more of our common stock, all shareholders except the purchaser will be entitled to acquire our common stock at a 50% discount. The effect will be to discourage acquisitions of more than 20% of our common stock without negotiations with the Board of Directors of the Company. 19 Table of Contents The Rights will trade with our common stock, unless and until they are separated upon the occurrence of certain future events. Our Board of Directors may redeem the Rights prior to the expiration of a specified period following the acquisition of more than 20% of our common stock. We have had significant changes in our management and these changes may impact our ability to execute our business strategy in the near term. On July 21, 2008, Robert S. Thomas resigned as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board of Directors and as a director. At the time of Mr. Thomas’ resignation, Dr. Frederick A. Russ, the lead independent director, became the interim Chairman of the Board of Directors and Dennis M. Reed, the Company’s then President and Chief Marketing Officer, assumed responsibility for managing the Company’s total operations and was designated as the principal executive officer of the Company. Effective September 30, 2008, James R. Braun resigned as the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance. On October 1, 2008, Neil Boss, the Controller of the Company since 2002, was appointed as the principal accounting officer and principal financial officer of the Company. On February 3, 2009, the Company elected George R. Cattermole, a current director, as Chairman of the Board of Directors and entered into the Management Services Agreement with Bird Capital Group, Inc. (“BCG”) under which BCG will provide management services to the Company, including the services of Richard A. Bird as the Company’s full-time non-employee Chief Executive Officer. On February 5, 2009, the Company ended its employment relationship with three executive officers: Dennis M. Reed, who had served as President and Chief Marketing Officer since March 2007 and principal executive officer since July 2008; Carl A. Mielke, Senior Vice President of Sales; and Steven L. Abate, Vice President of Operations. Our success will depend to a significant extent on the ability of BCG and Mr. Bird to develop and implement a successful strategy, to successfully lead and motivate our employees, and to work effectively with other members of our management team and our board of directors, which also underwent a significant change in composition in 2008. There can be no assurance that changes in management will lead to an improvement in our results of operations. If the leadership transition is not successful, we may experience disruption to our operations, which may have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. Adverse resolution of legal proceedings may harm our operating results and financial condition. We are a party to certain legal proceedings as discussed in greater detail under Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Litigation and other legal proceedings can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular legal proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 