ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many risks and uncertainties that can affect our business, financial performance or share price. Some of these are beyond our control. Here is a brief description of some of the important factors which could cause our future business, operating results, financial condition or share price to be materially different than our expectations. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. You should refer to the description of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements on page 41 of this report. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could impact us as an operating company if the Merger is not consummated as planned and which are omitted from this report on the assumption that the Merger will be consummated. Our shareholders face risks in connection with the proposed Merger with M&I. Although our proposed Merger with M&I has been approved by our shareholders, the Merger must be approved by the FRB and approvals are also required from, or notices are required to, the Kansas Office of the State Bank Commissioner and the Florida Office of Financial Regulation, as well as the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq and other self-regulatory organizations, and may be required from or to certain other regulatory agencies before it is consummated. Although we anticipate these approvals will be received, there have been challenges to the Merger under the CRA which may delay or prevent approval of the Merger. We have terminated or lost a significant number of associates in anticipation of the Merger. These staff losses could adversely affect our ability to do business or maintain customer relationships prior to consummation of the Merger. If the Merger is not consummated for any reason, the failure to consummate the Merger and the staff losses we have experienced could adversely affect our business or customer relationships. If the Merger is consummated as planned, our stockholders will receive M&I stock in exchange for their stock in GoldBanc Corporation. There can be no assurance that M&I’s stock will trade at or above the exchange rate in the Merger, nor that M&I will pay dividends on its stock at levels comparable to or higher than the dividends historically paid on our common stock. The success of the Merger may depend in part upon the ability of M&I to integrate our operations with its own, and upon M&I’s ability to operate successfully and achieve growth in the markets in which we currently operate, neither of which can be assured. Loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. Prior to the closing of the Merger, or if the Merger is not consummated, the loss of certain key personnel could adversely affect our operations. Our success has depended in large part on the retention of a limited number of key persons, including Malcolm M. Aslin, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Richard J. Tremblay, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We will likely undergo a difficult transition period if we lose the services of either of these individuals. In recognition of this risk, we own, and are the beneficiary of, insurance policies on the lives of these key employees and have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Aslin. In addition, Roger M. Arwood, President of the Bank and our Executive Vice President, resigned effective as of March 3, 2006. If the Merger is not consummated then we will have to replace Mr. Arwood. We also place great value on the experience of our community bank presidents in each of our markets and on their relationships with the communities they serve. The loss of these key persons could negatively impact the affected banking locations. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to cover repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual loan losses, and we may have to increase the allowance in the future. Approximately 94.6% of our loan portfolio on December 31, 2005 consisted of construction loans, agricultural loans, loans secured by commercial real estate, and commercial business loans. These loans generally involve a greater degree of risk of nonpayment or late payment than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans and carry higher loan balances. The risk of loss will vary with general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and the quality and value of the collateral in the case of collateralized loans, among other things. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer installment loan portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. Our credit risk with respect to our agricultural loan portfolio relates, among other factors, to commodity prices and weather patterns. 9 Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our profitability. We may be unable to manage interest rate risk that could reduce our net interest income. Like other financial institutions, our results of operations are impacted principally by net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. We cannot predict or control changes in interest rates, which are affected by regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the FRB. While we continually take measures designed to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates, including interest rate swap agreements, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Funding our substantial cash requirements with dividends from the Bank reduces the capital levels of the Bank. We are a separate legal entity from our subsidiaries and do not have significant operations of our own. We depend primarily on dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, primarily the Bank, which may be limited by statutes and regulations and our cash and liquid investments available to pay dividends on our common stock after paying operating expenses and other obligations. In addition, we had an aggregate outstanding amount of $116.6 million in subordinated debt and trust preferred securities, as compared to total equity of $277.4 million outstanding, as of December 31, 2005. Our annual interest payments due on these borrowings were approximately $7.2 million as of December 31, 2005. We are dependent on dividends from the Bank to service these and other borrowings, and ultimately for principal repayment at maturity. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is limited by the ability of the Bank to pay dividends under applicable law and by contracts relating to our trust preferred securities. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock largely depends on our receipt of dividends from the Bank. The amount of dividends the Bank may pay to us is limited by federal and state banking laws and regulations. The Bank is required to maintain capital sufficient to meet the “well capitalized” standard set by regulators and is able to pay dividends to us only so long as its capital continues to exceed these levels. We or the Bank may decide to limit the payment of dividends even when we or they have the legal ability to pay them in order to retain earnings for use in our or the Bank’s business. Under contracts relating to our trust preferred securities, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock if we have not made required payments on, or have elected to defer payments of interest on, the junior subordinated debentures that support our trust preferred securities or if an event of default has occurred and is continuing with respect to such debentures. Local economic conditions could adversely affect our operations. Changes in local economic conditions could adversely affect our loan portfolio and results of operations. Our success depends to a certain extent upon the general economic conditions of the local markets that we serve. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers only in those markets in Kansas, Oklahoma, Missouri and Florida where the Bank operates. Our commercial, agricultural, real estate and construction loans, and the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans, are impacted by local economic conditions, which could fluctuate significantly from time to time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 