Risk Factors Competition may reduce our market share and harm our results of operations and financial condition. We face substantial competition across all our businesses, including our wireless telecommunications business, in Korea. We expect competition to intensify as a result of consolidation of market leaders and the development of new technologies, products and services. We expect that such trends will continue to put downward pressure on the prevailing tariffs we can charge our subscribers. Also, continued competition from the other wireless and fixed-line service providers has resulted in, and may continue to result in, a substantial level of deactivations among our subscribers. Subscriber deactivations, or churn, may significantly harm our business and results of operations. In 2008, the churn rate in our wireless business ranged from 2.0% to 3.6%, with an average churn rate of 2.7%, compared to an average churn rate of 2.6% in 2007. Intensification of competition in the future may cause our churn rates to increase. In addition, increased competition may cause our marketing expenses to increase as a 8 Table of Contents percentage of sales, reflecting higher advertising expenses and other costs of new marketing activities, which may need to be introduced to attract and retain subscribers. Prior to April 1996, we were the only wireless telecommunications service provider in Korea. Since then, several new providers have entered the market, offering wireless voice and data services that compete directly with our own. Together, these providers had a market share of approximately 49.5%, in terms of numbers of wireless service subscribers, as of December 31, 2008. Furthermore, in 2001, the Government awarded three companies the licenses to provide high-speed third generation, or 3G, wireless telecommunications services. In Korea, this 3G license is also known as the “IMT-2000” license. IMT-2000 is the global standard for 3G wireless communications, as defined by the International Telecommunication Union, an organization established to standardize and regulate international radio and telecommunications. One of these licenses was awarded to our former subsidiary, SK IMT Co., Ltd., which was merged into us on May 1, 2003, and the other two licenses were awarded to consortia led by or associated with KT Corporation, Korea’s principal fixed-line operator that recently merged with KT Freetel Co., Ltd., or KTF, one of our principal wireless competitors before the merger, and to LG Telecom, Ltd., or LGT. In addition, our wireless voice businesses compete with Korea’s fixed-line operators, and our wireless Internet businesses compete with providers of fixed-line data and Internet services. Since 2000, there has been considerable consolidation in the wireless telecommunications industry, resulting in the emergence of stronger competitors. In 2000, KT Corporation acquired a 47.9% interest in Hansol M.Com (formerly Hansol PCS Co., Ltd.), which was then the fifth largest wireless operator in terms of numbers of wireless service subscribers. Hansol M.Com subsequently changed its name to KT M.Com and merged into KTF in May 2001. In May 2002, the Government sold its remaining 28.4% stake in KT Corporation. In June 2009, KTF merged into KT Corporation, which had held a 54.25% interest in KTF before the merger. Such consolidation has created large, well-capitalized competitors with substantial financial, technical, marketing and other resources to respond to our business offerings. Future business combinations and alliances in the telecommunications industry may also create significant new competitors or enhance the abilities of our competitors to offer more competitive bundling services and could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, in March 2006 the MIC partially lifted, and in March 2008 the KCC fully lifted, the prohibition on the provision of handset subsidies, which had been in place since June 2000. See “— Our businesses are subject to extensive Government regulation and any change in Government policy relating to the telecommunications industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition”. These decisions by the MIC and the KCC have intensified competition among mobile service providers and may increase our marketing expenses relating to the provision of handset subsidies, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, in 2007, the MIC announced a “road map” highlighting revisions in regulations to promote deregulation of the telecommunications industry. In accordance with the road map and pursuant to the Combined Sales Regulation, promulgated in May 2007, telecommunications service providers are now permitted to bundle their services, such as wireless data service, wireless voice service, broadband Internet access service and fixed-line telephone service, at a discounted rate; provided, however, that we and KT Corporation, which are designated as market-dominating business entities under the Telecommunications Business Act, allow other competitors to employ the services provided by us and KT Corporation, respectively, so that such competitors can provide similar discounted package services. In September 2007, the regulations under the Telecommunications Business Act were amended to permit licensed transmission service providers to offer local, domestic long-distance and international telephone services, as well as broadband Internet access and Internet phone services, without additional business licenses. The introduction of bundled services may further increase competition in the telecommunications sector, as well as cause downward price pressure on the fees we charge for our services, which, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We expect competition to intensify as a result of such consolidation, regulatory changes and as a result of the rapid development of new technologies, products and services. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors. 9 Table of Contents Inability to successfully implement or adapt our network and technology to meet the continuing technological advancements affecting the wireless industry will likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation, cash flows and business. The telecommunications industry has been characterized by continual improvement and advances in technology and this trend is expected to continue. For example, we and our competitors have implemented technology upgrades from basic code division multiple access, or CDMA, networks to more advanced high-speed wireless telecommunications networks based on CDMA 1xRTT and CDMA 1xEV-DO technology. Korean wireless telecommunications companies, including us, have also implemented newer technologies such as wide-band code division multiple access, or WCDMA, which is the 3G technology implemented by us. In 2005, we began to upgrade our WCDMA network to support high-speed downlink packet access, or HSDPA, technology. HSDPA, which represents an evolution of the WCDMA standard, is a more advanced 3G technology than the initial WCDMA technology we implemented and is sometimes referred to as “3.5G” technology. Our HSDPA-capable WCDMA network, which was completed in March 2007, supports data transmission services at significantly higher data transmission speeds than our basic CDMA, CDMA 1xRTT and CDMA 1xEV-DO networks. We are currently further upgrading our WCDMA network to support even more advanced high-speed uplink packet access, or HSUPA, technology. The more successful operation of a 3G network by a competitor, including better market acceptance of a competitor’s 3G-based services, could materially and adversely affect our existing wireless businesses as well as the returns on future investments we may make in our 3G network or our other businesses. In addition, in March 2005, we also obtained a license from the MIC to provide wireless broadband Internet, or WiBro, services. WiBro enables us to offer high-speed and large-packet data services, including wireless broadband Internet access to portable computers and other portable devices, but does not support voice transmission. We commercially launched WiBro service in June 2006, initially to 24 “hot zone” areas, which are neighborhoods and districts that we have determined to be high-data traffic areas, in seven cities in Korea. By the end of 2008, we had extended WiBro service to “hot zone” areas in 42 cities throughout Korea. In 2009, we plan to expand WiBro service to hot zone areas in 84 cities. Beyond 2009, our WiBro expansion plans will depend, in part, on subscriber demand for WiBro services. As the implementation of WiBro service in Korea is relatively new, we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient demand for our WiBro services. Our WiBro services may not be commercially successful if market conditions are unfavorable or service demand is weak. For a more detailed description of our backbone networks, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Digital Cellular Network”. Our business could also be harmed if we fail to implement, or adapt to, future technological advancements in the telecommunications sector in a timely manner. Implementation of 3G and WiBro technologies has required, and may continue to require, significant capital and other expenditures, which we may not recoup. We have invested significant capital and resources to develop and implement our 3G technologies, including investments related to the commercial development of WCDMA technology and the build-out of our WCDMA network. In 2008, we invested Won 904.8 billion in capital expenditures related to expansion and upgrade of our WCDMA network. We also expect to devote additional capital resources in 2009 to enhance our 3G service quality and increase our WCDMA network capacity. For a more detailed description of our backbone networks, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Digital Cellular Network”. The demand for our 3G services may not be sufficient to recoup our aggregate capital expenditures in developing and implementing our 3G technologies, including costs related to the procurement of our IMT-2000 license and construction of our WCDMA network. Also, there may not be sufficient demand for our 3G services, as a result of competition or otherwise, to permit us to recoup or profit from our investment. We have also made, and intend to continue to make, capital investments to develop and launch our WiBro services. In 2008, we spent Won 404.8 billion in capital expenditures to build and expand our WiBro network. We plan to spend additional amounts to expand our WiBro network in 2009, and may make further capital investments related to our WiBro service in the future. Our WiBro-related investment plans are subject to change, and will 10 Table of Contents depend, in part, on market demand for WiBro services, the competitive landscape for provision of such services and the development of competing technologies. We cannot assure you that there will be sufficient demand for our WiBro services, as a result of competition or otherwise, to permit us to recoup or profit from our WiBro-related capital investments. KT Corporation commercially launched its WiBro service in 2006. The more successful operation of a WiBro network by KT Corporation, or another competitor, including better market acceptance of a competitor’s WiBro services, could also materially and adversely affect our business. Our growth strategy calls for significant investments in new businesses and regions, including businesses and regions in which we have limited experience. As a part of our growth strategy, we plan to selectively seek business opportunities abroad. In February 2005, we established a joint venture company, UNISK Information Technology Co., Ltd., with China Unicom Ltd. (“China Unicom”), China’s second largest mobile operator, to market and offer wireless data services in China. In July 2006, we also acquired US$1 billion in aggregate principal amount of China Unicom’s convertible bonds, which, in August 2007, we converted into a 6.6% equity interest in China Unicom. In October 2008, China Unicom merged with China Netcom Group Corporation (Hong Kong) Limited, a leading broadband communications and fixed-line telecommunications operator in China. As a result of the merger, our equity interest in China Unicom, which is the surviving entity after the merger, decreased to 3.8% from 6.6%. We also have ongoing projects in Vietnam. In addition, in May 2006 our subsidiary, HELIO, launched cellular voice and data services across the United States. In August 2008, together with EarthLink Inc., our joint venture partner in HELIO, we sold our equity interest in HELIO to Virgin Mobile USA, Inc., a provider of wireless communications services in the United States that was founded as a joint venture between Sprint Nextel and the Virgin Group, in exchange for limited partnership units of Virgin Mobile USA, L.P. (Virgin Mobile USA, Inc.’s operating company), equivalent to 11 million shares of Virgin Mobile USA, Inc.’s Class A common stock (valued at approximately US$31 million at the time of sale). In addition, we invested US$25 million of equity capital in Virgin Mobile USA, Inc. in exchange for mandatory convertible preferred stock, convertible into Virgin Mobile USA, Inc.’s Class A common stock. In connection with our investment in HELIO, we have recognized a cumulative loss of Won 346 billion through the end of 2008. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Our Business Strategy — Global Business — United States” for more information regarding our investments in HELIO and Virgin Mobile USA, Inc. These global businesses may require further investment from us. We continue to seek other opportunities to expand our business abroad, particularly in Asia and the United States, as such opportunities present themselves. For a more detailed description of our investments in our global business, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Our Services — Global Business”. We have also pursued convergence growth opportunities. For example, in March 2008, we completed the acquisition of an additional equity stake in SK Broadband, Korea’s second-largest fixed-line operator, for approximately Won 1.1 trillion and currently hold a 43.4% equity stake in the company. While we are hoping to benefit from a range of synergies from this acquisition, including by offering our customers bundled fixed-line and mobile telecommunications services, we may not be able to realize those expected benefits in the near term, or at all. In particular, we may experience difficulties in integrating SK Broadband’s fixed-line telecommunications and broadband Internet services with our existing products and services and we may be unsuccessful in retaining SK Broadband’s existing customers. In addition, since April 2008, customers of SK Broadband have filed lawsuits against SK Broadband in the Seoul Central District Court, alleging that SK Broadband had violated customers’ privacy, and an investigation against SK Broadband was initiated by the Seoul Central Prosecutor’s Office, the KCC and the Korea Trade Commission. In connection with its investigation, the KCC suspended SK Broadband from soliciting new subscribers for its broadband Internet services for a period of 40 days from July 1, 2008 and, in addition, imposed an administrative fine of Won 178 million. As of April 23, 2009, the number of plaintiffs was 23,591 and the aggregate amount of damages claimed by such plaintiffs was approximately Won 24.2 billion. The case is currently pending before the Seoul Central District Court. An adverse outcome of the litigation may damage the reputation and business of SK Broadband. For more information regarding this lawsuit, see “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings — SK Broadband Litigation”. We believe that we must continue to make significant investments to build, develop and broaden our existing businesses, including by developing and improving our wireless data, multimedia, mobile commerce and Internet services. We will need to respond to market and technological changes and the development of services which we 11 Table of Contents may have little or no experience in providing. Entering into these new businesses and regions in which we have limited experience may require us to make substantial investments and, in spite of such investments, we may still be unsuccessful in these efforts to expand and diversify. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recoup or profit from our investments in new businesses and regions. In addition, when we enter into these businesses and regions with partners through joint ventures or other strategic alliances, we and those partners may have disagreements with respect to strategic directions or other aspects of business, or may otherwise be unable to coordinate or cooperate with each other, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operations in such businesses and regions. Due to the existing high penetration rate of wireless services in Korea, we are unlikely to maintain our subscriber growth rate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. According to data published by the KCC and our population estimates based on historical data published by the National Statistical Office of Korea, the penetration rate for the Korean wireless telecommunications service industry as of December 31, 2008 was approximately 93.8%, which is high compared to many industrialized countries. Therefore, it is unlikely that the penetration rates for wireless telecommunications service in Korea will grow significantly. As a result of the already high penetration rates in Korea for wireless services coupled with our leading market share, we expect our subscriber growth rate to decrease. Slowed growth in penetration rates without a commensurate increase in revenues through the introduction of new services and increased use of our services by existing subscribers would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to acquire adequate additional spectrum or use our bandwidth efficiently to accommodate subscriber growth and subscriber usage. One of the principal limitations on a wireless network’s subscriber capacity is the amount of spectrum available for use by the system. We have been allocated 2 x 22.5 MHz of spectrum in the 800 MHz band. As a result of bandwidth constraints, our CDMA 1xRTT network is currently operating near its capacity in the Seoul metropolitan area, although capacity constraints are not as severe for transmissions utilizing CDMA 1xEV-DO technology. While we believe that we can address this issue through system upgrades and efficient allocation of bandwidth, inability to address such capacity constraints in a timely manner may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The growth of our wireless data businesses has been a significant factor in the increased utilization of our bandwidth, since wireless data applications are generally more bandwidth-intensive than voice services. This trend has been offset in part by the implementation of CDMA 1xEV-DO upgrades to our CDMA 1xRTT network and, more recently, the completion of our HSDPA-capable WCDMA network, which both enable more efficient usage of our bandwidth than was possible on our basic CDMA and CDMA 1xRTT networks. However, if the current trend of increased data transmission use by our subscribers continues, or the volume of the multimedia content we offer through our wireless data services substantially grows, our bandwidth capacity requirements are likely to increase. In the event we are unable to maintain sufficient bandwidth capacity, our subscribers may perceive a general slowdown of wireless services. Growth of our wireless business will depend in part upon our ability to manage effectively our bandwidth capacity and to implement efficiently and in a timely manner new bandwidth-efficient technologies if they become available. We cannot assure you that bandwidth constraints will not adversely affect the growth of our wireless business. We may have to make further financing arrangements to meet our capital expenditure requirements and debt payment obligations. As a network-based wireless telecommunications provider, we have had, and expect to continue to have, significant capital expenditure requirements as we continue to build out, maintain and upgrade our networks. We spent Won 2,236.9 billion for capital expenditures in 2008 and we expect to spend a similar amount for capital expenditures in 2009 for a range of projects, including investments in our backbone networks (and expansion of our WiBro network in particular), investments to improve our WCDMA network-based products and services, investments in our wireless Internet-related and convergence businesses and funding for mid- to long-term research and development projects, as well as other initiatives, primarily related to our ongoing businesses and 12 Table of Contents in the ordinary course. In 2009, we plan to continue HSUPA upgrades to our WCDMA network, as well as expand our WiBro service to “hot zone” areas in 84 cities. For a more detailed discussion of our capital expenditure plans and a discussion of other factors that may affect our future capital expenditures, see “Item 5.B. Liquidity and Capital Resources”. At December 31, 2008, we had approximately Won 2,118 billion in contractual payment obligations due in 2009 of which almost all involve repayment of debt obligations. See “Item 5.F. Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations”. We have not arranged firm financing for all of our current or future capital expenditure plans and contractual payment obligations. We have, in the past, obtained funds for our proposed capital expenditure and payment obligations from various sources, including our cash flow from operations as well as from financings, primarily debt and equity financings. Any material adverse change in our operational or financial condition could impact our ability to fund our capital expenditure plans and contractual payment obligations. Inability to fund such capital expenditure requirements may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. In addition, although we currently anticipate that the capital expenditure levels estimated by us will be adequate to meet our business needs, such estimates may need to be adjusted based on developments in technology and markets. In the event we are unable to meet any such increased expenditure requirements or to obtain adequate financing for such requirements, on terms acceptable to us, or at all, this may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Termination or impairment of our relationship with a small number of key suppliers for network equipment and for leased lines could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We purchase wireless network equipment from a small number of suppliers. We purchase our principal wireless network equipment from Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and LG Nortel Co., Ltd. To date, we have purchased substantially all of the equipment for our CDMA 1xRTT and CDMA 1xEV-DO networks from Samsung Electronics and substantially all of the equipment for our WCDMA network, including the software and firmware used to implement HSDPA and HSUPA upgrades, from Samsung Electronics and LG Nortel. In addition, to date, we have purchased substantially all of the equipment for our WiBro network from Samsung Electronics. We believe Samsung Electronics currently manufactures approximately half of the wireless handsets sold to our subscribers. Although other manufacturers sell the equipment we require, sourcing such equipment from other manufacturers could result in unanticipated costs in maintenance and upkeep of the CDMA 1xRTT, CDMA 1xEV-DO and WCDMA networks, as well as in the planned expansion of our WiBro network. Inability to obtain the needed equipment for our networks in a timely manner may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we rely on KT Corporation and SK Networks to provide a substantial majority of the transmission lines we lease. For a more detailed discussion of the lines we lease from fixed-line operators, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Digital Cellular Network — Network Infrastructure”. In May 2009, we entered into an agreement with SK Networks to purchase its leased line business for Won 892.85 billion. The purchase remains subject to regulatory approvals and approval by shareholders of SK Networks. In addition, we will also assume Won 627.8 billion of debt as part of the transaction. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to obtain the necessary equipment from one or more of our suppliers. Any discontinuation or interruption in the availability of equipment from our suppliers for any reason could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Inability to lease adequate lines at commercially reasonable rates may impact the quality of the services we offer and may result in damage to our reputation and our business. 13 Table of Contents Our businesses are subject to extensive Government regulation and any change in Government policy relating to the telecommunications industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. All of our businesses are subject to extensive governmental supervision and regulation. The MIC has periodically reviewed the tariffs charged by wireless operators and has, from time to time, suggested tariff reductions. Although these suggestions are not binding, we have in the past implemented some degree of tariff reductions in response to MIC recommendations. After discussions with the MIC, effective September 1, 2004, we reduced our monthly plan-based fees by 7.1%. In addition, after discussions with the MIC, we began to provide Caller ID service to our customers free of charge from January 1, 2006. After discussions with the MIC, in January 2007 we and other wireless telecommunications providers, including KTF and LGT, reduced usage fees for wireless Internet services by 30% and, in January 2008 we and other wireless telecommunications providers, including KTF and LGT, reduced the usage fees for short text message service, or SMS, from Won 30 per message to Won 20 per message. The Government also plays an active role in the selection of technology to be used by telecommunications operators in Korea. The MIC adopted the WCDMA and CDMA2000 technologies as the only standards available in Korea for implementing 3G services. The KCC may impose similar restrictions on the choice of technology used in future telecommunications services and it is possible that technologies promoted by the Government in the future may not provide the best commercial returns for us. In addition, the KCC may revoke our licenses or suspend any of our businesses if we fail to comply with its rules, regulations and corrective orders, including the rules restricting beneficial ownership and control and corrective orders issued in connection with any violation of rules restricting beneficial ownership and control or any violation of the conditions of our licenses. We believe we are currently in compliance with the material terms of all our cellular licenses, including our IMT-2000 and WiBro licenses. Furthermore, the Government sets the policies regarding the use of radio frequencies and allocates the spectrum of radio frequencies used for wireless telecommunications. In December 2008, the KCC announced its plan to reallocate 20 MHz of spectrum in the 800 MHz band that we are currently using to other service providers in June 2011. The KCC’s plan also contemplates new allocations of 20 MHz of spectrum in the 900 MHz band, 40MHz of spectrum in the 2.1 GHz band and 27MHz of spectrum in the 2.3 GHz band for wireless telecommunication services. While we do not believe the reallocation of spectrum will materially impact our ability to maintain sufficient bandwidth capacity, the reallocation and new allocation of the spectrum to our existing or new competitors could increase competition among wireless service providers, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Our wireless telecommunications services depend, in part, on our interconnection arrangements with domestic and international fixed-line and other wireless networks. Our interconnection arrangements, including the interconnection rates we pay and interconnection rates we charge, affect our revenues and operating results. The KCC determines the basic framework for interconnection arrangements, including interconnection policies relating to interconnection rates in Korea, and the MIC has changed this framework several times in the past. We cannot assure you that we will not be adversely affected by future changes in the KCC’s interconnection policies. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Interconnection — Domestic Calls”. In January 2003, the MIC announced its plan to implement number portability with respect to wireless telecommunications service in Korea. The number portability system allows wireless subscribers to switch wireless service operators while retaining the same mobile phone number. In addition, in order to manage the availability of phone numbers efficiently and to secure phone number resources for the new services, the MIC has required all new subscribers to be given numbers with the ‘010’ prefix starting January 2004, and it has been gradually retracting the mobile service identification numbers which had been unique to each wireless telecommunications service provider, including ‘011’ for our cellular services. We believe that the use of the common prefix identification system has posed, and continues to pose, a greater risk to us compared to the other wireless telecommunications providers because, historically, ‘011’ has had high brand recognition in Korea as the premium wireless telecommunications service. The MIC’s adoption of the number portability system has resulted in and could continue to result in a deterioration of our market share as a result of weakened customer loyalty, increased competition among wireless service providers and higher costs of marketing as a result of maintaining the number portability system, 14 Table of Contents increased subscriber deactivations and increased churn rate, all of which had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Law and Regulation — Competition Regulation — Number Portability”. In the past, wireless telecommunications service providers provided handsets at below retail prices to attract new subscribers, offsetting a significant portion of the cost of handsets. The rapid growth in penetration rate in past years can, at least in part, be attributed to such subsidies on handsets given to new subscribers. During the period between June 2000 and March 2008, the MIC prohibited all wireless telecommunications service providers, subject to certain exceptions stipulated in the Telecommunications Business Act, from providing any such handset subsidies. The MIC has, on several occasions between March 2002 and February 2008, imposed various types of sanctions and fines against us and the other wireless service providers for violating restrictions on providing handset subsidies and other activities that were deemed to be disruptive to fair competition. We paid the fines and believe that we have complied in all material respects with the other sanctions imposed by the MIC. For details on these and other Government penalties, see “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings”. Beginning in March 2006 the MIC partially lifted, and, in March 2008 fully lifted, its prohibition on the provision of handset subsidies. We currently provide subsidies of between Won 20,000 to Won 130,000 to subscribers who enter into long-term subscription agreements of one to two years. As a result of the Government’s recent decision to allow handset subsidies, we have faced increased competition from other mobile service providers. The provision of handset subsidies has increased, and may continue to increase, our marketing expenses, which in turn, has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the KCC may revoke our licenses or suspend any of our businesses if we fail to comply with its rules, regulations and corrective orders, including the rules restricting beneficial ownership and control or any violation of the conditions of our licenses. Alternatively, in lieu of suspension of our business, the KCC may levy a monetary penalty of up to 3% of the average of our annual revenue for the preceding three fiscal years. The revocation of our cellular licenses, suspension of our business or imposition of monetary penalties by the KCC could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe we are currently in compliance with the material terms of all our cellular licenses. We are subject to additional regulations as a result of our dominant market position in the wireless telecommunications sector, which could harm our ability to compete effectively. The KCC’s policy is to promote competition in the Korean telecommunications markets through measures designed to prevent a dominant service provider in a telecommunications market from exercising its market power to prevent the emergence and development of viable competitors. We are currently designated by the KCC as the “market dominant service provider” in respect of our wireless telecommunications business. As such, we are subject to additional regulations to which certain of our competitors are not subject. For example, under current Government regulations, we must obtain prior approval from the KCC to change our existing rates or introduce new rates while our competitors may generally change their rates or introduce new rates at their discretion. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Law and Regulation — Competition Regulation — Rate Regulation”. We could also be required by the KCC to charge higher usage rates than our competitors for future services. In addition, we were required to introduce number portability earlier than our competitors, KTF and LGT. The MIC also awarded the IMT-2000 license to provide 3G services to LGT at a fee lower than our license fee and on terms generally more favorable than the terms of our license. We qualify as a “market-dominating business entity” under the Fair Trade Act. The Fair Trade Commission of Korea, or the FTC, approved our acquisition of Shinsegi on various conditions, one of which was that our and Shinsegi’s combined market share of the wireless telecommunications market, based on numbers of subscribers, be less than 50% as of June 30, 2001. In order to satisfy this condition, we reduced the level of our subscriber activations and adopted more stringent involuntary subscriber deactivation policies beginning in 2000 and ceased accepting new subscribers from April 1, 2001 through June 30, 2001. While we are no longer subject to any market share limitations, our strategy is to maintain our market share at the current levels. We can give no assurance that the Government will not impose restrictions on our market share in the future or that we will not undertake to voluntarily restrict our market share in the future. If we are subject to market share limitations in the future, our ability to compete effectively will be impeded. 15 Table of Contents The additional regulation to which we are subject has affected our competitiveness in the past and may materially hurt our profitability and impede our ability to compete effectively against our competitors in the future. Concerns that radio frequency emissions may be linked to various health concerns could adversely affect our business and we could be subject to litigation relating to these health concerns. In the past, allegations that serious health risks may result from the use of wireless telecommunications devices or other transmission equipment have adversely affected share prices of some wireless telecommunications companies in the United States. We cannot assure you that these health concerns will not adversely affect our business. Several class action and personal injury lawsuits have been filed in the United States against several wireless phone manufacturers and carriers, asserting product liability, breach of warranty and other claims relating to radio transmissions to and from wireless phones. Certain of these lawsuits have been dismissed. We could be subject to liability or incur significant costs defending lawsuits brought by our subscribers or other parties who claim to have been harmed by or as a result of our services. In addition, the actual or perceived risk of wireless telecommunications devices could have an adverse effect on us by reducing our number of subscribers or our usage per subscriber. Korea is our most important market, and our current business and future growth could be materially and adversely affected if economic conditions in Korea deteriorate. We are incorporated in Korea and a significant portion of our operations is based in Korea. As a result, we are subject to political, economic, legal and regulatory risks specific to Korea. Recent difficulties affecting the U.S. and global financial sectors, adverse conditions and volatility in the U.S. and worldwide credit and financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the U.S. and global economies have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected the global and Korean economies. Any future deterioration of the Korean and global economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Developments that could have an adverse impact on Korea’s economy include: • continuing difficulties in the housing and financial sectors in the United States and elsewhere and the resulting adverse effects on the global financial markets; • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including oil prices), exchange rates (including fluctuation of the U.S. dollar or Japanese yen exchange rates or revaluation of the Chinese renminbi), interest rates and stock markets; • substantial decreases in the market prices of Korean real estate; • increasing delinquencies and credit defaults by consumer and small and medium sized enterprise borrowers; • declines in consumer confidence and a slowdown in consumer spending; • adverse developments in the economies of countries that are important export markets for Korea, such as the United States, Japan and China, or in emerging market economies in Asia or elsewhere; • the continued emergence of the Chinese economy, to the extent its benefits (such as increased exports to China) are outweighed by its costs (such as competition in export markets or for foreign investment and the relocation of the manufacturing base from Korea to China); • social and labor unrest; • a decrease in tax revenues and a substantial increase in the Government’s expenditures for fiscal stimulus measures, unemployment compensation and other economic and social programs that, together, would lead to an increased government budget deficit; • financial problems or lack of progress in the restructuring of Korean conglomerates, other large troubled companies, their suppliers or the financial sector; 16 Table of Contents • loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues at certain Korean conglomerates; • the economic impact of any pending or future free trade agreements, including the Free Trade Agreement recently negotiated with the United States; • geo-political uncertainty and risk of further attacks by terrorist groups around the world; • the recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or an outbreak of avian flu in Asia and other parts of the world; • deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy; • political uncertainty or increasing strife among or within political parties in Korea; • hostilities involving oil producing countries in the Middle East and any material disruption in the supply of oil or increase in the price of oil; and • an increase in the level of tension or an outbreak of hostilities between North Korea and Korea or the United States. Disruptions in global credit and financial markets and the resulting governmental actions around the world could have a material adverse impact on our business and the ability to meet our funding needs, and could cause the market value of the common shares and ADSs to decline. Global credit markets have been experiencing difficulties and volatility since the second half of 2008. The market uncertainty that started from the U.S. residential market further expanded to other markets such as those for leveraged finance, collateralized debt obligations and other structured products. These developments have resulted in significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity in the global credit markets, as well as bankruptcy or acquisition of, and government assistance to, several major U.S. and European financial institutions, beginning with the bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers in September 2008. In response to such developments, legislators and financial regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions, including Korea, have implemented a number of policy measures designed to add stability to financial markets. However, the overall impact of these legislative and regulatory efforts on the global financial markets is uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilizing effects. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. We are exposed to risks related to changes in the global and Korean economic environments, changes in interest rates and instability in the global financial markets. As liquidity and credit concerns and volatility in the global financial markets increased significantly, the value of the Won relative to the Dollar has depreciated at an accelerated rate. Such depreciation of the value of the Won may adversely affect our business. See “— Depreciation of the value of the Won against the Dollar and other major foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the market value of the common shares and ADSs”. Furthermore, as a result of adverse global and Korean economic conditions, there has been a significant overall decline and continuing volatility in securities prices of Korean companies, including ours, which may result in trading and valuation losses on our trading and investment securities portfolio. The Korea Stock Price Index declined from 1,852.0 on May 30, 2008 to 1,363.8 on June 24, 2009. In addition, recent increases in credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit resulting from heightened concerns about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically have led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers, which may negatively impact our liquidity and results of operation. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate may further impair our ability to meet our desired funding needs. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. These recent and developing economic and governmental factors may have a material adverse effect on our business and the ability to meet our funding needs, as well as negatively affect the market prices of the common shares and ADSs. 17 Table of Contents Depreciation of the value of the Won against the Dollar and other major foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the market value of the common shares and ADSs. During the period from January 2, 2008 through June 19, 2009, the value of the Won relative to the U.S. dollar declined by approximately 26%, due primarily to adverse economic conditions resulting from liquidity and credit concerns and volatility in the global credit and financial markets and repatriations by foreign investors of their investments in the Korean stock market. For historical exchange rate information, see “Item 3.A. Selected Financial Data — Exchange Rate”. Substantially all of our revenues are denominated in Won. Depreciation of the Won may materially affect our results of operations because, among other things, it causes: • an increase in the amount of Won required by us to make interest and principal payments on our foreign currency-denominated debt, which accounted for approximately 23% of our total consolidated long-term debt, including current portion, as of December 31, 2008; and • an increase, in Won terms, of the costs of equipment that we purchase from overseas sources which we pay for in Dollars or other foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the Dollar will affect the Dollar equivalent of the Won price of the shares of our common stock on the KRX KOSPI Market of the Korea Exchange, or the KRX KOSPI Market. These fluctuations also will affect: • the amounts a registered holder or beneficial owner of ADSs will receive from the ADR depositary in respect of dividends, which will be paid in Won to the ADR depositary and converted by the ADR depositary into Dollars; • the Dollar value of the proceeds that a holder will receive upon sale in Korea of the common shares; and • the secondary market price of the ADSs. Increased tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and the market value of the common shares and ADSs. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase abruptly as a result of current and future events. In recent years, there have been heightened security concerns stemming from North Korea’s nuclear weapons and long-range missile programs and increased uncertainty regarding North Korea’s actions and possible responses from the international community. In December 2002, North Korea removed the seals and surveillance equipment from its Yongbyon nuclear power plant and evicted inspectors from the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency. In January 2003, North Korea renounced its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Since the renouncement, Korea, the United States, North Korea, China, Japan and Russia have held numerous rounds of six party multi-lateral talks in an effort to resolve issues relating to North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. In addition to conducting test flights of long-range missiles, North Korea announced in October 2006 that it had successfully conducted a nuclear test, which increased tensions in the region and elicited strong objections worldwide. In response, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution that prohibits any United Nations member state from conducting transactions with North Korea in connection with any large scale arms and material or technology related to missile development or weapons of mass destruction and from providing luxury goods to North Korea, imposes an asset freeze and travel ban on persons associated with North Korea’s weapons program, and calls upon all United Nations member states to take cooperative action, including through inspection of cargo to or from North Korea. In response, North Korea agreed in February 2007 at the six-party talks to shut down and seal the Yongbyon nuclear facility, including the reprocessing facility, and readmit international inspectors to conduct all necessary monitoring and verifications. In June 2008, North Korea demolished the cooling tower at its main reactor complex in Yongbyon. After reaching an agreement with North Korea on a series of measure to verify North Korea’s efforts in dismantling its nuclear program, the United States provisionally rescinded the designation 18 Table of Contents of the North Korea as a State Sponsor of Terrorism, effective from October 11, 2008. However, on April 5, 2009, North Korea launched a long-range rocket over the Pacific Ocean, claiming that the launch intended to put an orbital satellite into space. The United States Northern Command issued a statement that North Korea’s long-range rocket flew over Japan, with its payload landing in the Pacific Ocean. On April 13, 2009, the United Nations Security Council unanimously passed a resolution that condemned North Korea for the launch and decided to tighten sanctions against North Korea. In response, North Korea announced on April 14, 2009 that it would permanently pull out of nuclear disarmament talks and restart its nuclear program. On May 25, 2009, North Korea announced that it had successfully conducted a second nuclear test and test-fired three short-range, surface-to-air missiles. In response, the United Nations Security Council unanimously passed a resolution on June 12, 2009 that condemned North Korea for the nuclear test and tightened sanctions against North Korea. There can be no assurance that the level of tension on the Korean peninsula will not escalate in the future. Any further increase in tensions, which may occur, for example, if North Korea experiences a leadership crisis, high-level contacts break down or military hostilities occur, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the market value of the common shares and ADSs. If SK Holdings causes us to breach the foreign ownership limitations on shares of our common stock, we may experience a change of control. There is currently a 49% limit on the aggregate foreign ownership of our issued shares. Under an amendment to the Telecommunications Business Act, which became effective in May 2004, a Korean entity, such as SK Holdings, is deemed to be a foreign entity if its largest shareholder (determined by aggregating the shareholdings of such shareholder and its related parties) is a foreigner and such shareholder (together with the shareholdings of its related parties) holds 15% or more of the issued voting stock of the Korean entity. As of March 31, 2009, SK Holdings owned 18,748,452 shares of our common stock, or approximately 23.22%, of our issued shares. If SK Holdings were considered to be a foreign shareholder, then its shareholding in us would be included in the calculation of our aggregate foreign shareholding and our aggregate foreign shareholding (based on our foreign ownership level as of March 31, 2009, which we believe was 45.95%) would exceed the 49% ceiling on foreign shareholding. As of March 31, 2009, a foreign investment fund and its related parties collectively held a 2.11% stake in SK Holdings. We could breach the foreign ownership limitations if the number of shares of our common stock or ADSs owned by other foreign persons significantly increases. If our aggregate foreign shareholding limit is exceeded, the KCC may issue a corrective order to us, the breaching shareholder (including SK Holdings if the breach is caused by an increase in foreign ownership of SK Holdings) and the foreign investment fund and its related parties who own in the aggregate 15% or more of SK Holdings. Furthermore, if SK Holdings is considered a foreign shareholder, it may not exercise its voting rights with respect to the shares held in excess of the 49% ceiling, which may result in a change in control of us. In addition, the KCC may refuse to grant us licenses or permits necessary for entering into new telecommunications businesses until our aggregate foreign shareholding is reduced to below 49%. If a corrective order is issued to us by the KCC arising from the violation of the foregoing foreign ownership limit, and we do not comply within the prescribed period under such corrective order, the KCC may: • revoke our business license; • suspend all or part of our business; or • if the suspension of business is deemed to result in significant inconvenience to our customers or to be detrimental to the public interest, impose a one-time administrative penalty of up to 3% of the average of our annual revenue for the preceding three fiscal years. The amendment to the Telecommunications Business Act in May 2004 also authorizes the KCC to assess monetary penalties of up to 0.3% of the purchase price of the shares for each day the corrective order is not complied with, as well as a prison term of up to one year and a penalty of Won 50 million. For a description of further actions that the KCC could take, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Law and Regulation — Foreign Ownership and Investment Restrictions and Requirements”. 19 Table of Contents If our convertible notes are converted by foreign holders and the conversion would cause a violation of the foreign ownership restrictions of the Telecommunications Business Act, or in certain other circumstances, we may sell common stock in order to settle the converting holders’ conversion rights in cash in lieu of delivering common stock or ADSs to them, and these sales might adversely affect the market price of our common stock or ADSs. In April 2009, we sold US$332.528 million in 1.75% convertible notes due 2014. As of May 31, 2009, these convertible notes were convertible by the holders into shares of our common stock at the rate of Won 230,010 per share. These notes are held principally by foreign holders. If (1) the exercise by the holder of the conversion right would be prohibited by Korean law or we reasonably conclude that the delivery of common stock or ADSs upon conversion of these notes would result in a violation of applicable Korean law or (2) we do not have a sufficient number of shares of our common stock to satisfy the conversion right, then we will pay a converting holder a cash settlement payment. In such situations, we may sell such number of treasury shares held in trust for us that corresponds to the number of shares of common stock that would have been deliverable in the absence of the 49% foreign shareholding restrictions imposed by the Telecommunications Business Act or other legal restrictions. The number of shares sold in these circumstances might be substantial. We cannot assure you that such sales would not adversely affect the market prices of our common stock or ADSs. Sales of our shares by SK Holdings, POSCO and/or other large shareholders may adversely affect the market value of the common shares and ADSs. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the shares of our common stock or ADSs or our ability to raise capital through an offering of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, SK Holdings owned 23.09% and POSCO owned 2.88% of our issued common stock, respectively. Neither of them has agreed to any restrictions on its ability to dispose of our shares. See “Item 7.A. Major Shareholders”. We can make no prediction as to the timing or amount of any sales of our common stock. We cannot assure you that future sales of shares of our common stock, or the availability of shares of our common stock for future sale, will not adversely affect the market prices of the shares of our common stock or ADSs prevailing from time to time. Korea’s legislation allowing class action suits related to securities transactions may expose us to additional litigation risk. The Securities-related Class Action Act of Korea enacted in January 2004 allows class action suits to be brought by shareholders of companies (including us) listed on the KRX KOSPI Market for losses incurred in connection with purchases and sales of securities and other securities transactions arising from (i) false or inaccurate statements provided in the registration statements, prospectuses, business reports and audit reports and omission of material information in such documents; (ii) insider trading; (iii) market manipulation and (iv) unfair trading. This law permits 50 or more shareholders who collectively hold 0.01% of the shares of a company to bring a class action suit against, among others, the issuer and its directors and officers. It is uncertain how the courts will apply this law. Litigation can be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, and can divert management time and attention from the operation of a business. We are not aware of any basis under which such suit may be brought against us, nor are any such suits pending or threatened. Any such litigation brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If an investor surrenders his ADSs to withdraw the underlying shares, he may not be allowed to deposit the shares again to obtain ADSs. Under the deposit agreement, holders of shares of our common stock may deposit those shares with the ADR depositary’s custodian in Korea and obtain ADSs, and holders of ADSs may surrender ADSs to the ADR depositary and receive shares of our common stock. However, under the terms of the deposit agreement, as amended, the depositary bank is required to obtain our prior consent to any such deposit if, after giving effect to such deposit, the total number of shares of our common stock represented by ADSs, which was 17,942,962 shares as of June 1, 2009, 20 Table of Contents exceeds a specified maximum, subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. In addition, the depositary bank or the custodian may not accept deposits of our common shares for issuance of ADSs under certain circumstances, including (1) if it has been determined by us that we should block the deposit to prevent a violation of applicable Korean laws and regulations or our articles of incorporation or (2) if a person intending to make a deposit has been identified as a holder of at least 3% of our common stock. See “Item 10.B. Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation — Description of American Depositary Shares”. It is possible that we may not give the consent. Consequently, an investor who has surrendered his ADSs and withdrawn the underlying shares may not be allowed to deposit the shares again to obtain ADSs. An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional shares and may suffer dilution of his equity interest in us. The Korean Commercial Code and our articles of incorporation require us, with some exceptions, to offer shareholders the right to subscribe for new shares in proportion to their existing ownership percentage whenever new shares are issued. If we offer any rights to subscribe for additional shares of our common stock or any rights of any other nature, the ADR depositary, after consultation with us, may make the rights available to an ADS holder or use reasonable efforts to dispose of the rights on behalf of the ADS holder and make the net proceeds available to the ADS holder. The ADR depositary, however, is not required to make available to an ADS holder any rights to purchase any additional shares unless it deems that doing so is lawful and feasible and: • a registration statement filed by us under the Securities Act is in effect with respect to those shares; or • the offering and sale of those shares is exempt from, or is not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file any registration statement with respect to any ADSs. If a registration statement is required for an ADS holder to exercise preemptive rights but is not filed by us, the ADS holder will not be able to exercise his preemptive rights for additional shares. As a result, ADS holders may suffer dilution of their equity interest in us. Short selling of our ADSs by purchasers of securities convertible or exchangeable into our ADSs could materially adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. SK Holdings, through one or more special purpose vehicles, has engaged and may in the future engage in monetization transactions relating to its ownership interest in us. These transactions have included and may include offerings of securities that are convertible or exchangeable into our ADSs. Many investors in convertible or exchangeable securities seek to hedge their exposure in the underlying equity securities at the time of acquisition of the convertible or exchangeable securities, often through short selling of the underlying equity securities or through similar transactions. Since a monetization transaction could involve debt securities linked to a significant number of our ADSs, we expect that a sufficient quantity of ADSs may not be immediately available for borrowing in the market to facilitate settlement of the likely volume of short selling activity that would accompany the commencement of a monetization transaction. This short selling and similar hedging activity could place significant downward pressure on the market price of our ADSs, thereby having a material adverse effect on the market value of ADSs owned by you. A holder of our ADSs may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against us. We are a corporation with limited liability organized under the laws of Korea. Substantially all of our directors and officers and other persons named in this document reside in Korea, and all or a significant portion of the assets of our directors and officers and other persons named in this document and substantially all of our assets are located in Korea. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of our ADSs to effect service of process within the United States, or to enforce against them or us in the United States judgments obtained in United States courts based on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Korea, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the United States federal securities laws. 21 Table of Contents We are generally subject to Korean corporate governance and disclosure standards, which may differ from those in other countries. Companies in Korea, including us, are subject to corporate governance standards applicable to Korean public companies, which may differ in some respects from standards applicable in other countries, including the United States. As a reporting company registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange, we are, and in the future will be, subject to certain corporate governance standards as mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, foreign private issuers, including us, are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. There may also be less publicly available information about Korean companies, such as us, than is regularly made available by public or non-public companies in other countries. Such differences in corporate governance standards and less public information could result in corporate governance practices or disclosures that are perceived as less than satisfactory by investors in certain countries. 