Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision regarding our securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. The risks described below and elsewhere in this report including in “Forward-Looking Statements” are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our revenues might not grow, and they might decrease due to economic and other factors. Several factors, many of which are outside of our control, contribute to our revenue growth. Some scenarios that might impede our revenue growth in the future include: • a decline in general economic conditions, which could occur as a result of currency fluctuations, rising interest rates, or other factors; 5 Table of Contents • our failure to maintain existing customers and to attract new marketing customers due to competition from other media outlets, dissatisfaction with our services or reduced advertising budgets; • our loss of advertising and other marketing opportunities to competitors, especially as other media companies increase their online presence in areas where we focus; • our inability to attract advertisers and users for our newer websites; • our failure to attract and retain users to our websites where advertising inventory is purchased; • our inability to respond to ad-blocking technology might decrease the effectiveness of online advertising; • our loss of revenue related to any sale or closure of an existing business; • weakness in corporate and consumer spending in the markets in which we operate, including in the United States, the United Kingdom, China, France and Australia, may lead to a decline in advertising, which is the primary source of our revenues; • disruption of our operations due to technical difficulties, system downtime, Internet brownouts or denial of service or other similar attacks; and • disruption to our operations, employees, partners, customers and facilities caused by natural disasters, international or domestic terrorist attacks or armed conflict. We may not be able to achieve our targeted financial measures and accordingly we may fail to make expected improvements in our overall profit measures. We have identified various financial measures as a useful way to evaluate our operating performance and liquidity. We may fail to achieve our financial measure targets. Some of the factors that could cause us not to achieve these targets include: • a failure to achieve projected revenue growth; • greater than expected expenses due to a decision to invest in new products, services or websites; • acquisitions of businesses that cannot immediately achieve these financial measures; • greater than expected compensation expenses due to competition for qualified employees; • significant expense related to stockholder proposals, including the announced stockholder proposals by JANA Partners; • material costs related to pending and future legal proceedings; • a failure to manage the costs associated with innovation and growth; or • an inability to achieve or to execute on an effective sales strategy. Competition is intense and we might not compete successfully. The media industry is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. We compete for advertisers, users and business partners with numerous companies throughout the world and expect the market to become increasingly competitive as Internet usage and marketing continues to grow in acceptance. We compete with diversified media companies that provide both online and offline content, including magazines, cable television, network television, radio and newspapers. In addition, as diversified media companies continue to introduce and acquire more interactive media offerings, we will increasingly compete with them for consumers and advertisers. Our brands also face competition from other sites in the vertical markets we serve. For example, our gaming properties compete with other gaming sites such as IGN Entertainment, and our business properties compete with websites such as WSJ.com and Forbes.com. As Internet media consumption and advertising continues to gain share, we compete with a variety of online properties for users and marketers, including the following: general purpose portals like AOL, MSN and Yahoo!, especially as these properties expand their content offering in our areas of expertise; search engines like Google, Yahoo! and MSN; online comparison shopping and retail properties, including Shopping.com, Amazon.com and eBay; food and lifestyle sites, such as Epicurious; and emerging platforms such as blogs, podcasts and video properties. We expect competition for advertisers and users to remain or become more intense and we may not be able to compete successfully in the market. Our advertising and other operating revenues may be subject to fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe that advertising spending on the Internet, as in traditional media, fluctuates significantly with economic conditions. Because a majority of our revenues are derived from advertising, fluctuations in advertising spending generally, or with respect to Internet-based spending specifically, could adversely impact our revenues. In addition, marketing spending follows seasonal consumer behavior throughout the calendar year to reflect trends during the calendar year, with spending historically weighted towards the fourth quarter. Consistent with industry trends, our revenues in 2007 were weighted toward the end of the year, with 31% of our revenues being earned in the fourth quarter. 6 Table of Contents Most of our revenues are derived from short-term contracts which may not be renewed. Our revenues are derived in large part from the sale of advertising and we expect that this will continue to be the case for the foreseeable future. Most of our advertising contracts are short-term and are subject to termination by the customer at any time on thirty-day prior written notice. Advertisers who have longer-term contracts may fail to honor their existing contracts or fail to renew their contracts. If a significant number of advertisers or a few large advertisers decided not to continue advertising on our websites, we could experience an immediate and substantial decline in our revenues over a relatively short period of time. We depend on, and receive, a significant percentage of our revenues from a relatively small number of advertisers. A relatively small number of advertisers contribute a significant percentage of our revenues. Our top fifty customers in the United States contributed 47% of our consolidated revenues in the quarter ended December 31, 2007. These customers may not continue to use our services to the same extent, or at all, in the future. A significant reduction in advertising by one or more of our largest customers, such as revenues from Google which represented 10% of 2007 total revenues, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Users may not always accept, or may be drawn away from, our brands, content and services. Our future success depends upon the strength of our brands and our ability to deliver original and compelling content and services that attract and retain users. We will endeavor to continue building existing brands and introducing new brands that resonate with their audiences, but we may not be successful. The specialized nature of certain of our sites may limit the potential user base of those sites. Our content and services might not be attractive to a sufficient number of users to generate revenues consistent with our estimates. In addition, we might not develop new content or services in a timely or cost-effective manner. If we are not successful in growing our user base and increasing user interaction on our sites, then our ability to attract the advertisers who seek to market to the demographic represented by our user base may be adversely affected which would in turn impact our revenues. Our ability to successfully develop and produce content and services is subject to numerous uncertainties, including the ability to: • anticipate and successfully respond to rapidly changing consumer tastes and preferences; • fund new program development; • attract and retain qualified editors, producers, writers, and technical personnel; and • successfully expand our content offerings into new platform and delivery mechanisms. Our business may be impacted by any event that decreases the amount of the time that users spend on our properties, including geopolitical events and natural disasters. During these times, our traffic and revenues may decrease. We may not innovate and adapt to market opportunities and industry changes at a successful pace. Our industry is rapidly adopting new technologies, standards and business models to create and satisfy consumer demand and to more effectively address market opportunities. It is critical that we continue to innovate, anticipate and adapt to these changes to ensure that our content delivery platforms, services and products attract our users, advertisers and partners. In addition, we may discover that we must make significant expenditures to achieve this goal and to enable us to be positioned to benefit from market and industry changes. If we fail to accomplish these goals, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected and we may lose users and the advertisers that seek to reach those users. A significant percentage of our revenues are derived from activity-based fees generated when our users visit the content of our partners, and we might not be able to attract qualified users for which our partners are willing to pay us activity-based fees. We earn fees when users search the content of our partners. There are currently many other businesses that offer similar services. In addition, users may prefer to contact our partners directly rather than return to our sites. If we are unable to continue to attract users to our sites, to maintain the fees we charge our partners for these services or maintain the current or similar terms of our relationships with our partners, then our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Most of our agreements with merchants under which activity-based fees are earned are terminable by either party on ten to thirty days notice. Our failure to use third-party technologies or develop and maintain successful relationships with third parties may adversely impact our traffic. We depend in part on third parties for Internet traffic to our websites and changes to their operations or our failure to develop and maintain relationships with them or use their technologies successfully could result in decreased traffic. Any reduction in users on our websites could negatively impact our ability to earn revenues. A significant portion of our users visit our websites by conducting a search on a search engine, such as Google, MSN or Yahoo!, and following a link displayed in the search results. Changes in the 7 Table of Contents methodologies used by these search engines to display results or our failure to successfully optimize our sites for search engine ranking could result in our websites receiving less favorable placements, which could reduce the number of users who link to our sites from these search engines. In addition, we rely on the cooperation of owners and operators of other Internet sites with whom we have syndication and other arrangements to generate traffic to our Internet sites. Our ability to maintain these relationships will continue to be critical to the success of our Internet operations. If we are unable to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with such third parties on acceptable commercial terms, or if our competitors are better able to capitalize on these relationships, we could see a reduction in the numbers of users of our websites, which could adversely impact our revenues. We may have difficulties with our acquisitions, investments and new product developments. We intend to continue to pursue new business opportunities and ventures to expand our business, including acquisitions, investments and new product developments in a broad range of content areas and in various domestic and international markets. During 2007, we completed nine acquisitions. Our decision to pursue these activities is accompanied by risks, including, among others: • investment of a substantial amount of capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to execute our existing business strategy; • issuance of additional equity interests, which would be dilutive to current stockholders; • the need to incur borrowings, which would impact future cash flows for the repayment of principal and interest payments, and which borrowing may also have restrictive covenants that could limit certain operating activities including our ability to make acquisitions; • additional burdens on our management personnel and financial and operational systems; • difficulty assimilating the operations, technology, corporate culture and personnel of the newly acquired businesses; • potential disruption to our ongoing business; • possible inability to retain key personnel; • additional operating losses and expenses associated with the activities and expansion of acquired businesses, including expenses associated with amortization of purchased intangible assets; • possible impairment of relationships with existing employees and advertising customers; • potential undisclosed liabilities associated with new or acquired businesses; and • for foreign acquisitions and investments, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks, and the particular economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Additionally, our $250.0 million credit facility contains significant restrictions on additional borrowings and acquisitions which could impact our investment and acquisition strategies. The matters relating to the Special Committee’s and management’s review of our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have resulted in expanded litigation and regulatory proceedings and may result in future litigation which could harm our financial results. On May 22, 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors had appointed a Special Committee comprised of independent directors to conduct, with the assistance of legal counsel and outside accounting experts, an internal investigation relating to past option grants, the timing of such grants and related accounting matters. The Special Committee reached a preliminary conclusion in July 2006 concluding that the actual measurement dates for certain stock options granted between 1998 and 2001 differed from the recorded measurement dates. Charges related to the change in these stock option measurement dates were determined to be material and as a result, on January 29, 2007, we filed restated financial statements for 2005, 2004 and 2003 and the first quarter of 2006. Our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation. As described in Part II, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” several derivative complaints have been filed against our directors and certain of our current and former executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. We cannot guarantee that new lawsuits related to the investigation or our restatements will not be filed, and we cannot predict the outcome of any current or potential future litigation or regulatory proceeding against us or our directors or officers. The amount of time to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and doing so may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business. Any settlement between the parties in these litigations may result in material costs to our company. In addition, we have certain indemnification obligations to our current and former officers and directors that are named in these actions for, among other things, the advancement of certain legal expenses and the indemnification of certain judgments and settlements. 8 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely impacted by the outstanding shareholder proposals and related litigation. In January 2008, a group led by hedge fund JANA Partners, LLC declared its intent to submit proposals, among other things, to amend our bylaws to increase the size of our board of directors to 13 and to nominate seven directors to stand for election at our 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. We informed JANA that these proposals were improper under our bylaws. On January 7, 2008, JANA filed a complaint against us in the Delaware Court of Chancery challenging the application of certain provisions of our bylaws to JANA’s proposals. We anticipate that responding to these proposals and litigation will be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. In addition, our $250.0 million credit facility includes certain events, including a “change of control”, that would cause a default under the credit facility and permit the lender to accelerate the maturity of any outstanding indebtedness with the lender and to terminate the facility. If JANA Partners’ proposals are successful and all of JANA’s nominees are elected to our board of directors, a “change of control” may be deemed to occur under our credit facility. Any default under our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and adversely impact our business. In addition, we are a party to contracts, including severance agreements, which may contain provisions triggered upon a “change in control”. We have limited protection of our intellectual property and could be subject to infringement claims that may result in costly litigation, the payment of damages or the need to revise the way we conduct our business. Our success and ability to compete are dependent in part on the strength of our proprietary rights, on the goodwill associated with our trademarks, trade names and service marks and on our ability to use United States and foreign laws to protect them. Our intellectual property includes our original content, our editorial features, logos, brands, domain names, the technology that we use to deliver our products and services, the various databases of information that we maintain and make available through our Internet sites or by license and the appearance of our Internet sites. We claim common law protection on certain names and marks that we have used in connection with our business activities. While we have applied for and obtained registration of many of our marks in countries outside of the United States where we do business, we have not been able to obtain registration of all of our key marks in such jurisdictions, in some cases due to opposition by people employing similar marks. In addition to laws in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, we rely on confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties and protective contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. Worldwide policing of our intellectual property rights is a difficult task and we might not be able to identify instances of infringement. Our content is widely distributed to third parties through licensing arrangements, and we cannot be certain our third party licensees will always take actions to protect the value of our proprietary rights and reputation. Intellectual property laws, our agreements and our patents may not be sufficient to prevent others from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our content or technologies. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to ours, which could negatively impact our business. In seeking to protect our trademarks, copyrights, patents and other proprietary rights, or defending ourselves against claims of infringement brought by others, with or without merit, we could face costly litigation and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Notwithstanding the efforts that we have taken to ensure that we have sufficient rights to the intellectual property that we use, we could still be subject to claims of infringement. For instance, there has been a recent increase in the granting and attempted enforcement of business process patents that cover practices that may be widely employed in the Internet industry. We have, on occasion, been approached by holders of patents alleging that our services infringe their patents and, in some cases, have been sued by other patent holders alleging patent infringement. Many companies that offer services similar to ours have been approached and, in some cases, sued by other patent holders alleging patent infringement. We could be required to enter into costly royalty arrangements with the holders of these patents or to revise our services to ensure non-infringement or to avoid litigation. If we are unsuccessful in avoiding patent infringement liability, we would incur significant expenses and could be subject to damage awards, including damages for past infringement and royalties for future use of the patented method or technology. If we are found to violate any such patent, and we are unable to enter into a license agreement on reasonable terms, our ability to offer services could be materially and adversely affected. Even if we prevail against defending these claims, the fees and costs associated with the defense of these matters could be significant. We have not historically procured insurance for patent infringement. These claims could result in the need to develop alternative trademarks, content or technology or to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business involves risks of liability claims for Internet and print content, which could result in significant costs. As a publisher and a distributor of content through the Internet and print publications, we may face potential liability for: • defamation/libel; • negligence; • copyright, patent or trademark infringement; or • other claims based on the nature and content of the materials published or distributed. 9 Table of Contents These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services and publishers of print publications. In addition, we could be exposed to liability in connection with material posted to our Internet sites by third parties. For example, many of our sites offer users an opportunity to post profiles, software, videos, photos, reviews and opinions. Some of this user-generated content, and the content that appears in our indexes and directories, may infringe on third party intellectual property rights or privacy rights or may otherwise be subject to challenge under copyright laws. Although we do not believe that our listing of any such material should expose us to liability, it is possible that such a claim may be successfully brought. Our insurance may not cover potential claims of defamation, libel, negligence and similar claims, and it may or may not apply to a particular claim or be adequate to reimburse us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Changes in regulations could adversely affect the way that we operate. It is possible that new laws and regulations in the United States and elsewhere will be adopted covering issues affecting our business, including: • privacy and use of personally identifiable information; • copyrights, trademarks and domain names; • obscene or indecent communications; • pricing, characteristics and quality of Internet products and services; • marketing practices, such as direct marketing or adware; • the ability of children to access our services; • regulations regarding net neutrality; • taxation of Internet usage and transactions; and • securities and tax regulations. Increased government regulation, or the application of existing laws to online activities, could: • decrease the growth rate of the Internet; • reduce our revenues; • increase our operating expenses; and • expose us to significant liabilities. We cannot be sure what effect any future material noncompliance by us with these laws and regulations or any material changes in these laws and regulations could have on our business, operating results and financial condition. There are a number of risks associated with international operations that could adversely affect our business. We maintain an international presence through a variety of international structures and business operations. We have wholly-owned operations in Australia, France, Germany, Japan, Russia, Singapore, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. We also have license arrangements in various other countries throughout the world. We operate our operations in China through a variety of entities some of which are owned indirectly by us through local management in order to comply with local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements. We believe our current ownership structure complies with all existing Chinese laws. It is possible, however, that the Chinese government may change the applicable laws or take a different interpretation of existing laws. If we were found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations, we could be subject to fines and other financial penalties, have our licenses revoked or be forced to discontinue our business entirely. There are additional risks inherent in doing business in international markets, such as the following: • weak economic conditions in foreign markets, especially in the business sector; • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences and in doing business with foreign entities and governments; • uncertainty as to the acceptance of our services in different countries; • longer collection cycles in some countries; • current, and unforeseen changes in, legal and regulatory requirements; • difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; 10 Table of Contents • currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could reduce our revenues as reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), increase our expenses and dilute our operating margins; • difficulties in finding appropriate foreign licensees or joint venture partners; • potential adverse tax requirements; • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the United States; and • foreign political and economic uncertainty. Changes in our tax rate and the outcomes of routine tax audits could affect our future results. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or by changes in tax laws or their interpretations. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns by the Internal Revenues Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. The outcomes from examinations may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. An inability to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our operations. Our success depends to a large extent on the continued services of our senior management team and qualified skilled employees. We depend on our ability to identify, attract, develop, retain and motivate personnel in a competitive job environment. Our inability to attract and retain key executives and other employees or to retain and motivate existing executives and employees may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our officers or other employees. As the overall industry for interactive content and Internet advertising grows, our employees are increasingly sought after by competitors. In order to remain competitive in the employment market, we may need to increase compensation to retain or attract qualified employees, which could have an adverse effect our financial condition or operating results. Our inability to attain shareholder approval of equity compensation plans may affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. We may be subject to system disruptions and other events that may impact use of our properties, which could adversely affect our revenues. Our ability to attract and maintain relationships with users, advertisers and strategic partners will depend on the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our Internet infrastructure. Our Internet advertising revenues relate directly to the number of advertisements and other marketing opportunities delivered to our users. System interruptions or delays that result in the unavailability of Internet sites or slower response times for users would reduce the number of impressions and leads delivered. This could reduce revenues as the attractiveness of our sites to users, strategic partners and advertisers decreases. Our insurance policies provide only limited coverage for service interruptions and may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. Further, we do not have multiple site backup capacity for all of our services in the event of any such occurrence. We may experience service disruptions for the following reasons: • occasional scheduled maintenance; • equipment failure; • an increase in traffic volumes to our sites beyond our infrastructure’s capacity; • disruptions in the services provided to us by third parties; • natural disasters, telecommunications failures, power failures or other system failures; and • viruses, hacking, intentional acts by third parties to disrupt our services or other events. In addition, our business may be impacted by any event that decreases the amount of the time that users spend on our properties, including geopolitical events and natural disasters. During these times, our traffic and revenues may decrease. There is no guarantee that our disaster recovery plans will be effective in mitigating system disruptions caused by these and other events. Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized persons accessing our systems, which could disrupt our Internet operations and result in the theft of our proprietary information. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate either our proprietary information or the personal information of our users, customers and employees or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our Internet operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security. For example, so-called “spiders” have and can be used in efforts to copy our databases, including our database of 11 Table of Contents technology products and prices. Our activities and the activities of third party contractors involve the storage and transmission of proprietary and personal information, such as computer software or credit card numbers. Accordingly, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We cannot assure you that contractual provisions attempting to limit our liability in these areas will be successful or enforceable, or that other parties will accept such contractual provisions as part of our agreements. Our debt obligations are restrictive and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a substantial level of debt and interest expense. At December 31, 2007 we had $64.0 million of outstanding indebtedness, of which $8.9 million was classified as a current liability. In addition, the terms of our $250.0 million credit facility limit the circumstances under which we can incur additional debt and require that we maintain certain financial ratios related to cash liquidity and the level of debt relative to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and certain other charges and expenses. The level of our indebtedness and the associated covenants, among other things, could: • restrict our ability to make investments in the Company by requiring us to keep a minimum level of liquidity • make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate operating purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service interest and principal payments on our debt; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; • reduce funds available for use in our operations; • place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; • impair our ability to incur additional debt because of financial and other restrictive covenants; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or an increase in interest rates. As of December 31, 2007, we had cash and investments of $107.4 million. We have prepared a forecast for 2008 which is based on our current expectations regarding revenue growth and associated operating expense and capital spending levels. If our actual results should differ materially from our expectations, our liquidity may be adversely impacted. If that were to occur, we may take steps to adjust our operating costs and capital expenditures to levels necessary to support our incoming business. We may also need to raise additional equity or borrow additional funds to achieve our longer-term business objectives. However, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various covenants of our $250.0 million credit facility, we would be in default, which would permit our lender to accelerate the maturity of our outstanding indebtedness with the lender and to terminate the facility. Any default under our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and adversely impact our business. Our business, operating results and financial condition may be impacted by certain contingencies related to our guarantee of certain lease obligations. In conjunction with the ZDNet acquisition in 2000, we guaranteed certain lease obligations of Ziff Davis Media Inc. (“Ziff Davis Media”), an unaffiliated company, in New York City. This New York lease expires in June 2019 and covers approximately 400,000 square feet of space on nine floors. We currently occupy one floor covering approximately 49,000 square feet. Ziff Davis Media along with various sublessees including The Bank of New York Mellon and Softbank, Inc. occupy space on the additional eight floors. As of December 31, 2007, the total lease payments remaining until the end of the lease term were $137.9 million, excluding the amounts attributable to our sublease with respect to the floor we occupy. In addition, we have a lease guarantee related to an office space in Oak Brook, Illinois for which Ziff Davis Media is the primary lessee. In December 2006, Ziff Davis Media ceased making monthly payments under the Oak Brook lease agreement. The total lease payment and associated operating costs due from that date through the lease termination in December 2008 is $1.2 million. The landlord has initiated legal action to collect rents against Ziff Davis Media and against CNET Networks as a guarantor. If Ziff Davis Media is either unable or unwilling to make the required rent payments under either the New York lease or Oak Brook lease, we could become liable for any shortfalls due under the respective lease agreements. In addition, any termination of a sublease or any deterioration in the commercial real estate market in New York City or Illinois could adversely impact the timing and lease rates received from new sublessees of this space. Any shortfalls in lease payments resulting from vacancies, including space currently occupied by us and Ziff Davis Media, as well as any sublease rental rates below amounts contractually owed by Ziff Davis Media, could adversely impact our financial results and could result in a significant use of cash. 12 Table of Contents We have generated significant losses in the past and cannot assure you that we will report positive net income in the future. If our revenues do not increase, we may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to maintain positive net income. In the past, we have generated operating losses, as well as net losses. Although we generated operating income and net income in 2007, our ability to generate net income and income from operations in 2008 or subsequent periods may be negatively impacted by: • shortfalls in revenues; • factors that may cause us not to achieve our target financial measures as described in more detail in a prior risk factor; • an inability to decrease expenses in a timely manner to offset any revenue shortfalls or expenses associated with cost-reduction measures, such as severance, lease termination payments, contract termination costs or impairment charges; • an adverse outcome of an examination of our tax returns by tax authorities; • payments associated with contingent liabilities, such as litigation or our guarantee of the New York lease of Ziff Davis Media as described in more detail in a prior risk factor; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; or • any transactions such as impairments or losses on investments. Changes in the interpretation of United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, may affect our reported results. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with GAAP, which is subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these principles could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect the reporting of transactions completed prior to the announcement of a change. Accounting rules regarding goodwill could make our reported results more volatile. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment. The evaluation is prepared based on our current and projected performance for our identified reporting units. The fair value of our reporting units is determined using a combination of the cash flow and market comparable approaches. If we conclude at any time that the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets for any of our reporting units exceeds its implied fair value, we will be required to recognize an impairment, which could materially reduce operating income and net income in the period in which such impairment is recognized. In 2007, we changed our reporting units to reflect the change in the Company’s internal management and reporting structure. This resulted in a change in reporting units (reporting units are defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS 142”)), and this change in reporting structure increased our reporting units from four to ten. As is required by SFAS 142, when an entity reorganizes its reporting structure in a manner that changes the composition of one or more of its reporting units, goodwill is reassigned to the affected reporting units using a relative fair value allocation approach. We determined that the fair value exceeded the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets for each of our reporting units as of August 31, 2007, except for the Webshots reporting unit. Therefore, an impairment of $19.0 million was recorded. In the application of these methodologies, we are required to make estimates of future operating trends and judgments on discount rates and other variables. Actual future results and other assumed variables could differ from these estimates, including changes in the economy, the business environment in which we operate, and/or our own relative performance. Any differences in actual results compared to our estimates could result in further future impairments. Accordingly, our future earnings may be subject to significant volatility, particularly on a period-to-period basis. We will record substantial stock compensation expenses, which may have a material negative impact on our operating results for the foreseeable future. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123(R), Share-Based Payment, for stock-based employee compensation. Our stock compensation expense was $19.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and is also expected to be significant in future periods, which will have an adverse impact on our operating income and net income. Our option-pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the option’s expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the amount of our stock compensation expense. Our stock compensation expenses may also be greater than expected if the fair value of our stock increases. In addition, an increase in the competitiveness of the market for qualified employees could cause us to issue more stock options or other securities to employees, which could increase our stock compensation expense. A substantial number of shares of common stock may be sold, which could affect the trading price of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents We have a substantial number of shares of common stock subject to stock options. As of December 31, 2007, we had 10 million shares of common stock available for future grant under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans and 19 million issuable upon the future exercise of outstanding stock options. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 248 million shares of authorized but unissued shares of our common stock that are available for future sale. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock, or the availability of shares of our common stock for future sale, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued in connection with acquisitions or upon the exercise of stock options or warrants or the conversion of debt or preferred equity securities that may be issued in the future, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. The trading value of our common stock may be volatile and decline substantially. The trading price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations, which are a result of a number of events and factors, including: • quarterly variations in operating results; • announcements of innovations requiring significant expenditures; • new products, services, strategic developments or business combinations by us or our competitors; • changes in our financial estimates or that of securities analysts; • announcements relating to the appointment or resignation of a member of senior management; • restatements of previously issued financial results; • our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; • changes in recommendations of securities analysts; • developments in litigations or other governmental proceedings against us, or new litigations or governmental proceedings; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and • news reports, including those relating to trends in the Internet. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. These fluctuations may make it more difficult to use stock as currency to make acquisitions that might otherwise be advantageous, or to use stock options as a means to attract and retain employees. Any shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to our or analysts’ or investors’ expectations could cause, and has in the past caused an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, rights agreement and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as the provisions of our rights plan could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or change of control. Our stockholders might view any transaction of this type as being in their best interest since the transaction could result in a higher stock price than the current market price for our common stock. Any delay or prevention of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or change of control could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Among other things, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with the terms of each series to be fixed by our Board of Directors; • divide our Board of Directors into three classes so that only approximately one-third of the total number of directors is elected each year; • permit directors to be removed only for cause; and • specify advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations. On January 11, 2008, our board of directors adopted a stockholders’ rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” which could result in the significant dilution of the proportionate ownership of any person that engages in an unsolicited attempt to take over our company and, accordingly, could discourage potential acquirers. 14 Table of Contents In addition, with some exceptions, the Delaware General Corporation Law restricts or delays mergers and other business combinations between us and any stockholder that acquires 15% or more of our voting stock. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, particularly a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, which may occur in the future, could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operation, financial condition or liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 