Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” could cause our actual results and developments to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any of these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise such statements to reflect new circumstances or unanticipated events as they occur except as required by the federal securities laws, and you are urged to review and consider disclosures that we make in our reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that discuss other factors relevant to our business. Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction We are Charles & Colvard, Ltd., a North Carolina corporation (the “Company” or “Charles & Colvard,” which may be referred to as “we,” “us” or “our”) that manufactures, markets and distributes Charles & Colvard created Moissanite jewels (also called moissanite or moissanite jewels) for sale in the worldwide jewelry market. Moissanite, also known by its chemical name, silicon carbide (SiC), is a rare, naturally occurring mineral found primarily in meteors. As the sole manufacturer of scientifically-made moissanite jewels, we are creating a unique brand image which positions moissanite as a jewel in its own right, distinct from all other jewels based on its fire, brilliance, luster, durability and rarity. Our moissanite jewels are made from SiC crystals. We obtain the substantial majority of our SiC crystals from Cree, Inc. (“Cree”). In February 2005, we established a new relationship for the supply of SiC crystals with Norstel AB, a Swedish Company (“Norstel AB”), that has demonstrated an ability to produce suitable SiC crystals in limited quantities. We have certain exclusive supply rights with Cree and Norstel AB for SiC crystals to be used for gemstone applications. From our inception in June 1995 through June 30, 1998, we were a development stage enterprise, devoting our resources to fund research and development of colorless moissanite jewels. We operate as a single business segment. We began shipping moissanite to U.S. retail jewelers and international 1 Table of Contents distributors during the second quarter of 1998. During the second quarter of 2000, we changed our U.S. distribution model to sell through jewel distributors and jewelry manufacturers rather than directly to retail stores. In March 2000, we entered into distribution agreements with each of Stuller Settings, Inc. (Stuller) and Rio Grande, two of the largest suppliers of jewelry-related products to the jewelry industry, for the North American distribution of moissanite and phased out of the direct sales to retail jewelers. We have also entered into several manufacturing agreements with domestic jewelry manufacturers, including Reeves Park, K&G Creations and Samuel Aaron International (SAI), which were our three largest customers in 2006. Through these agreements with distributors and jewelry manufacturers and our other strategic initiatives described below, our goal has been to rapidly increase the introduction of moissanite into the domestic jewelry market while maintaining prices on a per carat basis. Our sales have grown from $11.5 million in 2001 to $40.7 million in 2006, while average selling prices per carat have dropped approximately 9% in this period due to a product mix in which a greater percentage of smaller size jewels, which have a lower price per carat, were sold. After establishing profitability in 2001, our strategy has been to achieve sales growth and maintain profitability. We achieved both of those goals in each year from 2002 through 2005 as sales grew from $11.5 million in 2001 to $43.5 million in 2005, and operating income grew from $0.9 million in 2001 to $9.1 million in 2005. While we continued to grow income in 2006, our sales were 7% lower than 2005 due to the dollar amount of orders received in 2006 for new distribution being less than the amount we received in 2005, as discussed in more detail under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” It is our goal in 2007 to increase revenue while remaining profitable by increasing awareness and demand for moissanite jewelry. Moissanite Moissanite is a rare, naturally occurring mineral found primarily in meteors. Naturally occurring moissanite crystals are scarce, generally very small in size, dark green or black in color and are not a commercially viable gemstone material. Therefore, we expect only lab-grown SiC crystals to provide a meaningful source of moissanite for jewels. It is generally accepted that, in addition to carat size, the most important characteristics of a gemstone are beauty, durability and rarity. The beauty of a gemstone is characterized by its color, brilliance, dispersion (“fire”), and luster. The brilliance of a gemstone is measured by its refractive index, or the extent, when coupled with the facet design, to which the gemstone reflects light. The “fire” of a gemstone, or the breaking of light rays into spectral colors, is measured by its dispersion. Luster is the amount of light that is reflected back to the observer from the surface of a gemstone. The durability of a gemstone is determined by its hardness, or resistance to scratching, and its toughness, or resistance to chipping or cleaving. The gemstone’s hardness also determines the extent to which brilliance and “fire” can be highlighted by cutting the gemstone with sharp, well-defined and highly polished facets. Rarity is the availability or perceived availability of a gemstone. Moissanite jewels have unique fire, brilliance, luster, durability and rarity. The refractive index and the “fire” of moissanite jewels are higher than those found in other gemstones. We believe that the hardness of moissanite jewels is greater than all known gemstone materials except diamond. As a result, moissanite jewels, like diamond, can be cut with sharp, well-defined and highly polished facets that accentuate their brilliance and “fire.” The cutting specifications (facet arrangement and proportions) for moissanite jewels are designed to maximize the brilliance and fire inherent in the material. Additionally, we evaluate the finished jewels to exacting standards with automated video-imaging equipment and specially trained quality control personnel. Due to the rare natural occurrence of moissanite and both the proprietary and technical limitations in producing mass quantities of jewel quality moissanite, we believe that moissanite is among the rarest of jewels. 2 Table of Contents In addition, there are other physical properties of moissanite jewels that compare favorably to fine gemstones, which we believe will aid in jewelers’ acceptance of Charles & Colvard created Moissanite. Moissanite jewels, like diamond, can withstand high temperatures, which allow jewelers to make extensive repairs to the jewelry setting without removing the jewel. Jewelers can therefore use similar basic methods that are commonly used to repair diamond jewelry. Because of its unique atomic structure, moissanite can be grown in a variety of colors including blue, green or yellow. Additionally, although none have been produced to date, the colors red and pink are theoretically possible to grow. To date, we have focused our development, manufacturing and distribution efforts on the colorless form of moissanite, although we have sold limited quantities of green moissanite. The following table compares the physical properties of moissanite jewels with other fine gemstone materials: Comparison Chart (1) Description Refractive Index Dispersion Luster Hardness (Mohs Scale)(2) Toughness Charles & Colvard created Moissanite(3) 2.65-2.69 0.104 20.4% 9 1/4 Excellent Diamond 2.42 0.044 17.2% 10 Good* Cubic Zirconia (CZ) 2.17 0.060 13.6% 8 1/2 Good Ruby 1.77 1.018 7.7% 9 Excellent** Sapphire 1.77 0.018 7.7% 9 Excellent** Emerald 1.58 0.014 5.1% 7 1/2 Good to Poor * In cleavage direction, otherwise excellent ** Except twinned stones 1. Sources: Gemological Institute of America, Gem Reference Guide for GIA Colored Stones, Gem Identification and Colored Stone Grading Courses 32-35, 65-82, 87-90 (1995); Cornelius S. Hurlburt, Jr. & Robert C. Kammerling, Gemology 320-324 (2d Ed. 1991); Kirk-Othmer, Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology 891-906 (4th Ed. 1994); Institution Of Electrical Engineers, Properties of Silicon Carbide (Gary L. Harris, Ed., 1995); Robert Webster, Gems: Their Sources, Descriptions and Identification 889-940 (5th Ed. 1994); W. Von Muench, “Silicon Carbide” in Landolt-Boemstein Numerical Data and Functional Relationships in Science and Technology, New Series, Group III, Vol. 17C, pp. 403-416 and 585-592 (M. Schultz and H. Weiss, Eds., 1984); Kurt Nassau, Shane F. McClure, Shane Elen & James E. Shigley, “Synthetic Moissanite: A New Diamond Substitute”, Gems & Gemology, Winter 1997, 260-275; Kurt Nassau. “Moissanite: A New Synthetic Gemstone Material”, Journal of Gemmology, 425-438 (1999). 2. The Mohs Scale is a relative scale only, and quantitative comparisons of different gemstone materials cannot be made directly using the Mohs Scale. Moissanite jewels are approximately one-half to one-third as hard as diamond. 3. With the exception of the “Moissanite: A New Synthetic Gemstone Material” and “Synthetic Moissanite: A New Diamond Substitute” articles, the physical properties of moissanite jewels set forth in the preceding table utilized materials from SiC crystals produced by parties other than Cree or us. These crystals had various sizes, colors and atomic structures that we believe made them unsuitable for use as a gemstone. We have conducted tests on the hardness, toughness and refractive index of samples of Charles & Colvard created Moissanite, and the results of these tests are consistent with the results reported in this table. Products and Product Development Moissanite Jewels. We primarily sell near-colorless moissanite jewels cut in a variety of shapes including round, princess, radiant, oval, marquise, heart, cushion, square brilliant, octagon, baguette, 3 Table of Contents pear, castle, triangle, and trillion shapes in sizes ranging from 2 to 11mm (approximately 0.03 to 4.1 carats). We distribute a limited quantity of green moissanite jewels to evaluate the market potential of colored moissanite. We may elect to offer, from time to time, additional cuts, sizes and colors of moissanite jewels. During 2004, we purchased approximately $6.0 million of raw materials. To accommodate our need for additional inventory of selected shapes and sizes and to support anticipated growth, raw material purchases increased to approximately $11.5 million and $14.7 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. Our growth has not expanded as fast as we anticipated and we expect to reduce raw material purchases to approximately $14.2 million in 2007. Of this amount, $12.8 million will be purchased from Cree and $1.4 million will be purchased from Norstel. Amended and Restated Exclusive Supply Agreement with Cree. In June 1997, we entered into an Amended and Restated Exclusive Supply Agreement (Exclusive Supply Agreement) with Cree pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase from Cree at least 50%, by dollar volume, of our SiC crystal requirements for the production of gemstones in each calendar quarter during the term of the Agreement and Cree has agreed to supply this amount of crystals to us. Although we signed an agreement in February 2005 with Norstel AB for the purchase of SiC crystals as further described below, the initial quantities to be received from Norstel AB are a small enough percentage of total purchases that we remain dependent on Cree for the foreseeable future for the substantial majority of our supply of lab-grown SiC crystals. We are obligated to purchase a minimum quantity of usable material on a quarterly basis if Cree meets certain minimum quality levels. We purchased from Cree approximately $11.5 and $14.6 million of material during 2005 and 2006, respectively. We anticipate purchasing approximately $12.8 million of material from Cree in 2007. Our price per gram for purchases from Cree during 2007 is increasing by approximately 10% over what we paid per gram in 2006. Under the Exclusive Supply Agreement, Cree has agreed not to sell SiC crystals for gemstone applications to anyone other than us. When our orders for SiC crystals exceed the capacity of the existing crystal growth systems, Cree may, at its sole discretion, require us to purchase the additional growth systems needed or fund the cost of the systems on its own and recoup its costs by incorporating the costs of the additional systems into the cost of the SiC crystals. If we fund the costs of the crystal growth systems, Cree must use 100% of the output from these systems for our needs, unless the excess production exceeds our then-current needs, in which case Cree may sell such SiC crystals to any of its other customers for any use other than jewel applications. The title to these crystal growth systems passes to Cree once we have fully depreciated them. If Cree elects to fund the cost of additional growth systems on its own, we have no assurance that Cree will sell all of the output from these crystal growth systems to us or fill all of our orders, but Cree will be obligated to use the capacity to supply the quantities that we are required to purchase. Additionally, when Cree adds new crystal growth systems, we must commit to purchase all of the output of the new systems for at least six months. Any delay or reduction in the availability of SiC crystals from Cree could delay or limit our ability to deliver and sell our moissanite jewels, which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The Exclusive Supply Agreement had an initial term through June 2005, and in January 2005 we exercised our option to extend the Agreement until July 2015. The Exclusive Supply Agreement with Cree prohibits us, without Cree’s consent, from entering into an exclusive marketing or distribution agreement with DeBeers or any party that Cree reasonably believes is affiliated with any of the following parties: • DeBeers; • the Central Selling Organization (the international cartel of diamond producers) or its successors; 4 Table of Contents • any party whose primary business is the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of diamond gemstones; or • any non-gemstone and non-jewelry industry competitor of Cree. These provisions may limit our potentially available avenues of distribution and could prevent us from entering into certain potentially profitable transactions. Exclusive Supply Agreement with Norstel AB. In February 2005, we entered into an Exclusive Supply Agreement with Norstel AB (formerly Jesperator AB) for the supply of SiC crystals for use in the manufacturing of moissanite jewels. In March 2007, we signed an amended agreement with Norstel AB that extended the term to December 31, 2009. Under the terms of the amended contract, our remaining minimum commitment under the agreement is $7.8 million, of which approximately $465,000 will be expensed as research and development. The agreement gives us the exclusive right to purchase SiC crystals from Norstel AB for the purpose of fabricating, distributing or selling faceted jewels. In addition, Charles & Colvard has advanced $400,000 towards the purchase of certain equipment. This advance is scheduled to be repaid starting January 2007 through a 20% reduction on the invoice for subsequent purchases of SiC crystals. Effective October 1, 2007, we will receive a 35% reduction on the invoice for subsequent purchases of SiC crystals until the advance is repaid. The minimum purchase commitment during 2007 is $1.6 million, of which approximately $275,000 will be expensed as research and development. The agreement provides us with an option to extend the term of the agreement for a four-year period. Intellectual Property We have U.S. product and method patents for moissanite jewels, expiring in 2015, under which we have broad, exclusive rights to manufacture, use and sell moissanite jewels in the United States. We have these same patents in a number of foreign jurisdictions. In addition, we have certain trademarks and pending trademark applications that support the Charles & Colvard moissanite branding strategy. Although we intend to enforce our patent and trademark rights and vigorously prosecute all our patent applications, we cannot be sure that such actions will be successful, that any additional patents will be issued, that any issued patent will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that any issued patent will have any competitive or commercial value. Our success and our ability to compete successfully depend heavily upon our proprietary technology. In addition to our patents, we rely on trade secret laws and employee, consultant and customer confidentiality agreements to protect certain aspects of our technology. We cannot be sure that we will be able to protect our proprietary technology from disclosure or that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. With one exception discussed below, we have not received any claims that our products or processes infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties and we have no assurance that third parties will not assert such claims against us with respect to our existing and future products. Litigation to determine the validity of any third party’s claims could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor. In the event of an adverse result of any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses for, and pay royalties on the use of, the technology subject to the litigation. We have no assurance that we would be successful in such development or that any such license would be available on commercially reasonable terms. On October 4, 2006, the Company received an English translation of an action filed on June 9, 2006 in the South Korean Intellectual Property Office by MC Lab Corporation. MC Lab Corporation is seeking invalidation of the Company’s current South Korean patent on the basis of an alleged lack of inventiveness as compared to certain prior art. Management believes that the South Korean patent was 5 Table of Contents properly issued and the Company will vigorously defend the action. A decision is currently not expected before the summer of 2007. The Company does not presently have material sales in South Korea and the decision will not be legally binding in any other jurisdiction. Manufacturing The production of moissanite jewels includes the following steps: • growing SiC crystals; • designing shapes with proportions unique to moissanite jewels; • cutting crystals into preforms that will yield jewels of an approximate carat weight and millimeter size; • faceting preforms into jewels; and • inspecting, sorting and grading faceted jewels. Growth of SiC Crystals. Cree grows the majority of our SiC crystals in accordance with the terms of the Exclusive Supply Agreement. Under the Exclusive Supply Agreement, Cree is required to sell to us all of the crystals grown in a specified number of crystal growth systems without charging us for such crystal growth systems. In addition, Cree must sell to us all the crystals grown in the crystal growth systems acquired by us from Cree, unless Cree’s capacity exceeds our then-current needs, in which case Cree may sell SiC crystals produced by these systems to any of its other customers for any use other than moissanite jewel applications. We may increase our production capacity from Cree upon appropriate notice to Cree. If we order a quantity of crystals that will require Cree to acquire additional crystal growth systems, Cree may elect, in its sole discretion, to have us purchase the additional growth systems that will be needed or to fund the costs on its own and recoup its costs by incorporating the costs of the systems into the cost of the SiC crystals sold to us. We routinely evaluate the yield and quality of saleable moissanite jewels from SiC crystals being produced by Cree. The yield of saleable moissanite jewels from each crystal is the most significant factor affecting the volume and cost of moissanite jewels available for sale. Yield of saleable moissanite jewels is dependent on the quality of the crystals. Improvements in crystal quality increase the volume, or yield, of moissanite jewels from a crystal and decrease the cost of each moissanite jewel produced. Improvements in crystal quality have contributed to our increased gross profit margin in the past three years. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Designing Shapes with Proportions Unique to Moissanite Jewels. Maximizing the light reflected from a faceted moissanite jewel requires the design of shapes with unique proportions and angles. We create proprietary designs, using computer modeling, to display the maximum light reflection based on the optical properties (i.e., refractive index, dispersion and luster) of moissanite jewels. The first shape we developed applying these computer models was a moissanite version (unique facet angles and proportions) of the standard round brilliant cut. More recently, we have designed castle, square brilliant and baguette shapes. We believe these proprietary designs are the basis for the superior optical performance quality observed in faceted moissanite jewels. Preforms. We divide all SiC crystals through slicing and dicing processes into preforms in sizes suitable for faceting into predetermined calibrated-size moissanite jewels. We use readily available automated and computerized equipment along with proprietary technology developed in-house to slice and dice crystals into preforms. We believe that this equipment will enable us to maximize the number of preforms we can obtain from each SiC crystal. Faceting Moissanite Jewels. The faceting of preforms is a critical stage in obtaining quality jewels. The techniques and skills used in faceting moissanite jewels differ somewhat from those used in faceting 6 Table of Contents diamonds and other gemstones. We currently outsource the faceting of our moissanite jewels, other than faceting for small special orders or research and product development purposes, which we conduct internally. During 2007, we intend to continue to outsource faceting services to our existing suppliers, and we will depend on their ability to provide an adequate quantity of quality faceted moissanite jewels. We cannot be sure that they will be able to continue to produce our quality specifications for faceting and meet our quantity and time requirements. Currently, we have two suppliers of volume faceting services, both of which are located in Asia, and we have been satisfied with the capabilities and performance of each of these suppliers. We are currently seeking a third supplier of faceting services and have begun limited faceting work with a new company late in 2006. During 2007, we will have better indications if this third supplier of faceting services will be capable of providing consistent and reliable service. The majority of our faceting services currently are provided by John M. Bachman, Inc. (“JMB”), as discussed below. In 1997, we entered into a multi-year agreement with JMB. We have a right of first refusal to acquire any excess gemstone cutting capacity from JMB’s affiliate and any equity securities offered by JMB or its affiliate. Our agreement with JMB expires March 31, 2008; however, we have the right to terminate the agreement at any time upon 90 days written notice. Under this agreement, JMB has agreed to grant, and to cause its affiliates to grant, to us a perpetual, non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use any inventions or proprietary information developed by or for JMB or its affiliates that is useful in the faceting of moissanite jewels. In April 2002, we purchased from JMB 200 used custom faceting machines for $60,000, in order to ensure that the machines were available in the event we had increased faceting requirements. JMB agreed to store and maintain these machines and to repurchase the machines from us if higher faceting levels are required. During 2005, we reached these increased monthly faceting levels and JMB repurchased the machines. In May 2005, we entered into an eighth amendment to our agreement with JMB. Pursuant to the terms of the amendment, the Company has agreed to provide JMB with a cash advance of $135,000 that was used by JMB to expand its affiliate’s production facility and procure additional equipment and labor as needed to enable JMB and its affiliate to satisfy the requested increase in production volumes. The cash advance was repaid to the Company through reduced charges for faceting services provided to the Company. During 2006, the advance was completely repaid. In March 2006, we entered into a ninth amendment to our agreement with JMB. Pursuant to the terms of the amendment, the Company has agreed with JMB on increased production levels and a new price schedule. In addition, the term of our agreement with JMB was extended to March 31, 2008. Inspection, Sorting and Grading. Once faceted moissanite jewels are returned to us, we inspect, sort and grade them. During this stage, specially trained personnel individually examine and grade each moissanite jewel against certain quality parameters. In addition, we process a sample of each batch through an image analyzer for exacting quality control. This phase of manufacturing is relatively labor-intensive and requires skills not readily available in the general work force. In the future, we may elect to outsource certain portions of this stage of the manufacturing process to an independent third party. We will require third parties to which we outsource these processes to adhere to our rigorous quality control and monitoring standards. We have no assurance that we will be able to hire or retain sufficient numbers of appropriately skilled personnel for this phase of manufacturing or find and enter into acceptable agreements with third party vendors or that such vendors will be able to provide accurate inspection, sorting and grading services on a timely basis. Marketing and Distribution Marketing Domestic. Our primary consumer market consists of self-purchasing, women between the ages of 35 and 55, with an annual income of at least $45,000 (if married, combined household income of $75,000+). At 7 Table of Contents the consumer level, Charles & Colvard has positioned moissanite jewelry as the perfect self-reward or indulgence for women to purchase for themselves in celebrating a personal or professional achievement or event. In 2004 through 2006, we delivered our message to this market through fashion, lifestyle magazine advertisements and supporting retailers with newspaper, outdoor and point-of-purchase marketing. We plan to continue delivering our message in 2007 through similar marketing and advertising vehicles. We believe our marketing and advertising has continued to strengthen the image and reputation of our brand, Charles & Colvard, and our product, moissanite jewels. Research conducted by independent sources indicates that moissanite awareness amongst U.S. women has increased from 7.8% at the end of 2005 to 10.5% at the end of 2006. In 2004 through 2006, our marketing message to the jewelry trade positioned moissanite jewelry as a new jewelry category which provided a profitable business opportunity (new customer base – the self-purchasing woman, higher average retail sales per item, higher profit margins, and a new source of revenue) to both retailers and manufacturers. We plan to continue our marketing message into 2007 as the jewelry trade has increasingly accepted and profited from selling this new moissanite jewelry category. Moreover, we believe that no other gem material occupies the marketing niche called “reward for achievement”, specifically focusing on women self-purchasers. We expect to continue positioning moissanite as the perfect reward or indulgence for a woman celebrating her achievements (large or small, personal or professional) to its primary consumer market, the self-purchasing woman. We continued to support our existing customers and moissanite retailers with marketing collateral, advertising, and public relations efforts. We believe our retailer marketing support program has resulted in a consistent and positive moissanite message to both consumers and the jewelry trade. In addition, it has also set the stage for future public relations and marketing efforts positioning moissanite as both a new jewelry category and a unique and desirable jewel for consumers. In the fourth quarter of 2006 we worked with SAI in introducing a moissanite jewelry in-case collection in 208 doors of the department store retailer, Kohl’s. Marketing support consisted of in-store training, direct mail, newspaper inserts and advertising in key markets located in the Pacific Northwest, New England, and Florida. We plan to continue supporting our retailers in 2007 with various marketing programs to include such media vehicles as: newspaper advertising, retailer tagging in consumer magazines, marketing collateral, point-of-purchase materials and sales associate training designed to increase moissanite jewelry sales. Public relations activities are an important component of our marketing strategy and are integral to supporting the launch of new moissanite retailers. Our ongoing key public relations activities (in 2006 and going forward) include the following: • Expand awareness and increase purchase intent by generating editorial coverage in fashion, jewelry industry trade, and general nationwide press outlets: print, broadcast, web and non-traditional vehicles. • Increase moissanite jewelry product placement and broadcast media references. • Develop news stories and announcements to appear on local and national television news programs and newspaper markets throughout the U.S. • Capitalize on public relations activities that promote both Charles & Colvard as a brand, and moissanite as product, including but not limited to sponsorships and special media events. Our marketing and public relations efforts in 2007 will focus on increasing moissanite awareness, interest and purchase intent at the consumer level, which we believe will increase demand for moissanite jewels within our primary market—self-purchasing women. We intend to increase consumer advertising, 8 Table of Contents promotion, product placement opportunities, sponsorship opportunities and an expanded publicity/public relations effort, headed by a new public relations firm, continuous sales training for the sales associates at the retail level, and individually tailored sales and marketing programs designed for specific retailers in order to increase moissanite awareness. In 2006, Charles & Colvard participated as a major sponsor of three significant jewelry trade events: the international Gemological Research Conference (GRC) during Gemological Institute of America’s Symposium; CIBJO: The World Jewellery Confederation; and the U.S. trade leadership conference: CEO Summit. We expect to continue positioning moissanite as a new product category with a unique business opportunity (new customer base – the self-purchasing woman, higher average retail sales per item, higher profit margins, and a new source of revenue) to the jewelry industry. In 2007, we intend to continue to advertise in the monthly key trade publications: JCK and National Jeweler. We believe that trade public relations will continue to generate editorial interest and coverage about moissanite and its positive impact to the trade. International. Internationally, we work with our distributors to develop advertising and marketing campaigns targeting specific geographic regions—building on the marketing messages, images, strategies, and themes that have proven successful in developing the U.S. market. Pursuant to our international distribution agreements, we provide incentives in the form of cooperative advertising and marketing allowance to our customers who advertise consistent messages that support the brand image for Charles & Colvard created Moissanite. Trade Shows. Charles & Colvard will continue to participate in the leading jewelry trade shows, worldwide, as either a sponsor, exhibitor or a participant assisting our manufacturing clients. In 2006, we exhibited in the JCK Invitational in New York, Baselworld 2006 in Switzerland, Hong Kong Jewellery Show and the JCK Las Vegas show. We also participated in the Great Britain Jewellery Fair in Birmingham, UK, the More Show (Italy), and attended the Jewelers of America shows in New York during 2006. In 2007, we plan to exhibit at Baselworld 2007, JCK Las Vegas, and the Hong Kong Jewellery Shows and we will assist our manufacturing clients as a participant in other international jewelry trade expositions. Distribution According to preliminary estimates provided by the International Diamond Exchange, the consumer market in 2006 for jewelry sales in the United States was approximately $63 billion. Domestic. Traditionally, consumers have purchased jewelry through independent and chain jewelry stores and department stores. However, in the past two decades, non-traditional distribution channels such as catalog showrooms, mass-market discounters, price clubs, mail order, TV shopping channels and electronic commerce on the Internet have emerged and become significant channels. Moissanite is sold to consumers through single- and multiple-location independent jewelry stores, jewelry store chains, online, TV shopping channels and in catalogs. We believe that moissanite is best sold through retail channels in which the retailer has an adequate opportunity to effectively educate the consumer on moissanite’s unique qualities. In order to more rapidly expand the distribution of moissanite, in May 2000 we transitioned from selling moissanite jewels directly to independent retail jewelers to allowing independent retail jewelers to access loose moissanite jewels and moissanite jewelry through two established jewelry distributors, Stuller and Rio Grande. Additionally, we have entered into arrangements with several jewelry manufacturers, most notably Reeves Park, K&G Creations and SAI, that design and manufacture lines of jewelry containing moissanite jewels. We are in the process of negotiating a new agreement with K&G Creations as our prior agreement expired in December 2006. In the interim, we continue to do business with K&G 9 Table of Contents Creations under the terms of our expired agreement. Jewelry retailers have access to loose moissanite jewels from Stuller and Rio Grande and to jewelry containing moissanite jewels from Stuller, K&G Creations, Reeves Park, SAI, and other jewelry manufacturers. We believe that moissanite jewels provide retailers with an opportunity to earn a profit margin from a new product jewelry category that compares favorably to other jewelry products and allows retailers to distinguish our product line from other jewelry in the highly competitive retail jewelry market. We also believe moissanite jewelry provides retailers with an opportunity to appeal to the self-purchasing female market that typically spends disposable income on other products such as shoes, handbags and other indulgences. We believe moissanite jewelry margins create incentives for retailers to maximize their sales and promotional efforts, resulting in additional consumer demand for our moissanite jewels. We believe that distributing moissanite jewels through distributors as well as certain jewelry manufacturers and designers provides retail jewelers with maximum flexibility to develop their businesses with moissanite. Those jewelers that prefer to create their own jewelry to meet the needs of their individual market areas will be able to purchase the loose jewels through distributors, with which many of them already have relationships. Those jewelers that wish to purchase finished jewelry for sale in their stores may do so either through distributors or any of the jewelry manufacturers working with moissanite. The quality, design and workmanship of the settings chosen by distributors, manufacturers, designers and retailers affects consumer perception and acceptance of our jewel, and our control over these elements is limited to our pricing and licensing policies. Beyond that, we believe that the success of Charles & Colvard created Moissanite will be determined by the power and the precision of our brand-building program. We continue to evaluate the most appropriate structure for distribution in North America and may, in certain circumstances, enter into additional distribution arrangements, including arrangements with selected department stores and distribution channels such as moissanite retail stores, catalog sales or Internet sales. As the number of retailers selling moissanite jewelry has grown and we have gained distribution with prominent regional and national outlets, we believe we are beginning to see the benefit of our distribution model. By combining the manufacturers’ strength of jewelry design and program execution with our beautiful jewel, our distribution message is that we can provide a compelling revenue pipeline to retailers. Several manufacturers successfully introduced or expanded their distribution of moissanite with multi-door chains during 2006. Finlay, which operates leased department store jewelry locations in chains such as Boston Store, Macy’s Dillard’s, Bloomingdale’s, and Belk’s, expanded its doors from 114 in 2005 to 229 in 2006. Based on the results of a 2005 test distribution of moissanite, Helzberg Jewelers began distribution at all 270 of its stores during 2006. Each of the Zale Outlet and Peoples & Mappins Jewelers (both of which are divisions of Zale Corporation) initiated trunk shows during 2006, which resulted in an in-case program at 28 and 41 stores at December 31, 2006, respectively. In October 2006, test distribution of moissanite jewelry manufactured by SAI began in 208 stores of the 800-door department store chain, Kohl’s. We also began testing moissanite during 2006 at 22 Chicago locations of the 900-door department store chain, Sears. In addition, the Home Shopping Network (HSN) aired 9 hours of moissanite jewelry shows during 2006 and has agreed to increase the number of hours of moissanite jewelry shows to 25 during 2007. At December 31, 2006, chains with greater than 50 stores that sell moissanite jewelry are JC Penney, Finlay, Kohl’s, Helzberg Jewelers, Army Air Force Exchange System, King’s, and Landau. We have continued to introduce moissanite at new doors during the first quarter of 2007. In February 2007, Kohl’s expanded their distribution into 79 additional stores in California and Sears has indicated their interest in adding 122 additional stores during the first half of 2007. Although in January 2007 Landau reduced the number of outlets selling moissanite jewelry from approximately 70 doors to 5 doors, we believe that this reduction was due to account relationships maintained by Landau with the jewelry manufacturer and not a reflection on the success of moissanite jewelry sales. 10 Table of Contents Our three largest customers, Reeves Park, K&G Creations, & SAI, accounted for 37%, 21%, and 13% of our sales during 2006, respectively. Our fourth largest customer, Stuller accounted for 8% of our sales during 2006 and is our biggest supplier to independent retail jewelers. Through our efforts with Reeves Park, JCPenney was the first national retail chain to carry moissanite jewelry. Through our efforts with K&G Creations, moissanite jewelry was rolled out to a portion of the department stores whose jewelry counters are leased to Finlay Enterprises. Our efforts with SAI have resulted in moissanite jewelry being available in over 200 doors of the Kohl’s retail chain. In addition, we have collaborated with our customers to expand distribution with other retailers. While we believe our current relationship with these customers is good, and alternate manufacturers and distributors are available to serve their customer base, a loss of these customers could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular period. We expect that, at least over the short term, we will remain dependent on our ability and that of our manufacturing customers to maintain and enhance the JCPenney, Finlay Enterprises, and Kohl’s programs. We believe that we have developed a testing template that can enable us to successfully introduce moissanite jewelry at new points of distribution. Generally, we seek to participate with the retailers in training their sales and marketing personnel in moissanite sales positioning and strategies and in working with them to create focused advertising and promotional efforts to publicize “trunk shows” and other special sales events at the test store locations. In addition, to facilitate new distribution, we have allowed inventory to be taken on a consignment basis. Charles & Colvard recognizes revenue on consignment shipments on the earlier of the sale of the jewelry by the retailer or the retailer or manufacturer agreeing to take ownership of the jewels without recourse. The $2,024,000 of inventory on consignment at December 31, 2006 represents potential revenue of approximately $7,842,000 and potential gross profit of approximately $5,818,000 based on the average cost per carat of inventory at December 31, 2006. We believe that our sales on television shopping channels demonstrated that the consumer understands the value and beauty of our jewel and has resulted in increased interest from key traditional jewelry retailers such as those described above. We will also continue to seek or expand into channels such as catalog, showrooms, mail order, TV shopping channels, Internet, department store, specialty stores and mass retail. We believe that the growing consumer acceptance of moissanite will allow Charles & Colvard to expand into these various channels. As we expand, we will manage the issues surrounding the multiple channel distribution method with the need for a consistent brand-building program. Aggregate U.S. sales were approximately $36.0 million, $40.4 million, and $20.9 million, in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. We plan to add additional sales professionals in 2007 to focus on new retailer training. The additional personnel will enable us to increase our presence at trade shows and other important sales opportunities. International. While we have focused most of our resources on the domestic market, we have continued to invest in certain international markets that we believe have the most potential with respect to acceptance and sales of the moissanite jewel. In October 2000, we established a wholly-owned subsidiary in Hong Kong, Charles & Colvard (HK) Ltd., for the purpose of gaining better access to the Far Eastern markets. The importance of having a presence in this market is twofold: Hong Kong is the headquarters city for a very large number of jewelry manufacturing companies with sales and distribution worldwide, and Hong Kong is the gateway to the markets of mainland China. To enhance our presence in this market, we established a controlled company in China in August 2003 called Guangzhou Charles & Colvard Trading Limited. During 2006, foreign sales were 11% of our total sales. More details on our financial information by geographic area is included in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this annual report on Form 10-K. We currently distribute moissanite jewels in substantially all of Western Europe, Australia, India and certain countries in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. We have approximately 30 international distributors and intend to increase this number. All sales to international customers are denominated in U.S. dollars. Generally, we require full payment before merchandise is shipped to these customers. 11 Table of Contents However, once a customer has established a purchase history, we may grant payment terms to our international customers. Export sales aggregated approximately $4.7 million, $3.2 million, and $3.0 million, in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. It should be noted that a portion of our increased international sales is due to jewels sold internationally that will be re-imported to North American retailers. Similar to the United States, we have begun distributing through TV retailers internationally. Specifically, we have developed relationships with our manufacturing customers at Ideal World Shopping in the UK, VIVA TV Network in Taiwan, HSE in Germany, Jupiter Shop Channel in Japan, and M6 Boutique La Chaine in France. We believe that we are positioned for future growth in this distribution channel. We have also continued our investment in the Asian market. Our Hong Kong office is working on obtaining business relationships that will expand our distribution through Southeast Asia. One of those manufacturing customers, Aaron Shum Jewelry, Ltd., is supplying the test distribution at Gordon’s Jewelers in the United States. We are subject to the risks associated with doing business in international distribution channels. Please refer to Item 1A of this annual report on Form 10-K for more details on these risks. Seasonality Retail sales of moissanite jewelry are significantly greater during the Christmas and holiday season. Because we sell direct to manufacturers and distributors, our sales to support the holiday season take place during the third and beginning of the fourth calendar quarters, depending on the level of advance planning and production our customers undertake. The second half of each year accounted for 59%, 53%, and 58% of our sales during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The effect of seasonality on our business depends on the timing of orders we receive to support new or expanded distribution and other general sales trends, which could significantly affect our sales in a given quarter, regardless of seasonality. Working Capital Practices Our primary source of working capital is cash on hand and cash generated by operations. The current status of our working capital is discussed in more detail in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of Item 7 of Part II of this annual report on Form 10-K. Because our supply agreements for raw material purchases restrict the sale of SiC crystals for jewelry applications to only us, the suppliers negotiate minimum purchase commitments with us that may result in inventories that are higher than we might otherwise maintain. Management considers its investment in inventory essential to be able to meet the orders of its expanding customer base and to fulfill requests from our customers for consigned inventory. Our current inventory levels are sufficient to enable us to respond promptly to customer orders and we currently have no material order backlogs. Our standard payment terms are generally between 30 and 60 days for jewel distributors and generally between 60 to 90 days for jewelry manufacturers. In limited circumstances, we may extend terms of 120 days. We extend credit to our customers based upon an evaluation of the customer’s financial condition and credit history and generally do not require collateral. We believe that our payment terms are consistent with the payment terms offered in the jewelry industry. The Company’s return policy is that jewels can only be returned for credit within 30 days of shipment and must be returned for a valid reason (e.g. quality problems or a shipment of the wrong jewels). Some customers, however, have a contractual right to return a certain percentage of sales for any reason. We have established an allowance for returns based on our historical return rate, which takes into account 12 Table of Contents any contractual return privileges granted to our customers. Periodically, we sell product to our customers on “memo” terms. For shipments on memo terms, the customer assumes the risk of loss and has an absolute right of return for a specified period. Our customers are generally required to make payments on memo shipments within 30 days upon the customer informing us that they will keep the product. Accordingly, we do not recognize revenue on these memo transactions until the earlier of (1) the customer informing us that they will keep the product or (2) the expiration of the right of return period. The $2,024,000 of inventory on consignment at December 31, 2006 represents potential revenue of approximately $7,842,000 and potential gross profit of approximately $5,818,000 based on the average cost per carat of inventory at December 31, 2006. Competition Gemstone materials can be grouped into three types: • natural gemstone, which is found in nature; • synthetic gemstone, which has the same chemical composition and characteristics of natural gemstone but is created in a lab; and • simulated or substitute material, which is similar in appearance to natural gemstone but does not have the same chemical composition. Our moissanite jewel, which is positioned as a unique new jewel, may compete with fine gemstones such as ruby, sapphire, emerald and tanzanite as well as with natural, synthetic, and treated diamonds and existing synthetic gemstones such as synthetic cubic zirconia. We may also face competition from synthetic diamonds, synthetic diamond films and other sources of synthetic moissanite not presently available in qualities, sizes and volumes suitable for use as gemstones. Many of the suppliers of diamonds and other fine gemstones, as well as the suppliers of synthetic gemstones, have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources and greater access to distribution channels than we do. The worldwide market for large, uncut high-quality natural diamonds is significantly consolidated and controlled by DeBeers (headquartered in London), Alrosa (Russia), and Rio Tinto (Australia). These companies have a major impact on the worldwide supply and pricing of natural diamonds at both the wholesale and retail levels. Although we believe that our jewels appeal primarily to the consumer who would not otherwise purchase comparable diamond jewelry, diamond producers may undertake additional marketing or other activities designed to protect the diamond jewelry market against sales erosion from consumer acceptance of moissanite jewels. We may also face competition from treated and synthetic diamonds. Treated diamonds, which are natural diamonds with imperfections or flaws that have been altered in some manner to enhance their appearance, are presently available in the jewelry industry and are generally less expensive than diamonds of similar size, cut and color which have not been altered. Synthetic diamonds are also available in the marketplace and are produced for jewelry applications available to consumers. Although we believe that gemstone-quality synthetic and treated diamonds presently cannot be produced at prices competitive with those currently offered for our near-colorless moissanite jewels, there can be no assurances that such competitive prices cannot be achieved in the future by the producers of either or both of synthetic and treated diamonds. The primary producers of synthetic diamonds used for industrial applications are DeBeers, Sumitomo and GE. There are also a number of Russian producers of synthetic diamonds for industrial uses. In addition, companies such as the Gemesis Corporation, Chatham and Apollo Diamonds are synthesizing diamonds, in limited quantities for commercial jewelry applications. Synthetic diamond films can be grown at commercially viable prices in thicknesses that can be applied to various surfaces such as other synthetic materials. Although we believe that our products have a proprietary position, we could face competition from other companies that develop competing SiC technologies. Some of these technologies could be developed by 13 Table of Contents producers of SiC used for other industrial applications. Manufacturers of industrial SiC products include The Carborundum Corporation, for abrasive uses, and Cree, Siemens AG, Norstel AB, Bridgestone ABB, Dow Chemical, Sic Crystal AG, and Northrup Grumman Corporation, for semiconductor uses. We believe that Cree and Norstel AB are currently the only suppliers of SiC crystals in colors, sizes and volumes suitable for gemstone applications. It is possible, however, that these or other producers of SiC could develop SiC crystals suitable for gemstone applications and produce moissanite jewels until we could obtain judicial enforcement of our patent rights. We may also face competition from synthetic cubic zirconia, the principal existing diamond simulant and, to a lesser degree, other synthetic gemstones. The largest producer of synthetic cubic zirconia gemstones is Signity. In addition, there are a significant number of other producers of jewelry containing synthetic gemstones. Three of the largest retailers of synthetic cubic zirconia jewelry in the United States are QVC, Home Shopping Network and Wal-Mart. Some of the major retailers of synthetic cubic zirconia, including QVC, have captive manufacturing divisions that produce synthetic cubic zirconia jewelry. These producers and sellers may see their markets being eroded by the introduction of our moissanite jewels. We believe that the substantially lower price of these products is the primary basis upon which they will compete with our moissanite jewels. We intend to compete primarily on the basis that the unique qualities of our moissanite jewels are distinct from all other jewels based on their fire, brilliance, luster, durability and rarity. In addition, we believe that the Charles & Colvard created Moissanite brand, which is being developed pursuant to our marketing program, can create a long-term competitive advantage for our products. Additionally, we believe that moissanite jewels have a significant cost advantage over other fine gemstones, especially in the one-carat size and larger. Our competitive success depends, in part, on the following: • the willingness and ability of our jewelry distributors and other jewelry suppliers, manufacturers and designers to market and promote moissanite jewels to the retail jewelry trade; • the willingness of distributors, retailers and others in the channel of distribution to purchase loose moissanite jewels and the willingness of manufacturers, designers and retail jewelers to undertake setting of the loose jewels; • the ability of manufacturers, designers and retail jewelers to select jewelry settings that encourage consumer acceptance of and demand for our jewels; • the ability of jewelry manufacturers and retail jewelers to set loose moissanite jewels in jewelry with high quality workmanship; • the ability of retail jewelers to effectively market and sell moissanite jewelry to consumers; and • the increasing interest and demand for moissanite jewelry at the consumer-level. Government Regulation Our products are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). The FTC has issued regulations and guidelines governing the marketing of synthetic gemstones and other gemstones similar to diamond that require such gemstones to be clearly identified in any promotional or marketing materials. While we intend to comply fully with all FTC regulations, we cannot be sure that the FTC or a competitor will not challenge our promotional or marketing activities. Such a challenge could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our management, whether or not such challenge is resolved in our favor. If our actions were found to be in violation of FTC regulations, we could be forced to suspend marketing of our products and could incur significant expenses in developing new marketing strategies and materials that would not violate FTC regulations. Employees At February 28, 2006, we had 60 employees. We believe that our future prospects will depend, in part, on our ability to retain our current employees and to obtain additional management, marketing, sales, 14 Table of Contents manufacturing, scientific and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is substantial, and the number of persons with relevant experience in the jewelry industry is limited. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We believe that our employee relations are good. Available Information Our Internet website is www.moissanite.com or www.charlesandcolvard.com. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K. We have included our website address as a factual reference and do not intend it to serve as an active link to our website. We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following important factors that in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual performance and results and could cause our actual results of operations to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our business operations could be adversely affected if we do not manage our growth effectively. Our strategy will require us to achieve rapid growth while limiting expenditures and motivating our employee base. Periods of rapid growth may place a significant strain on our personnel and other resources. We will continue to be required to manage multiple relationships with various customers and other third parties. Our strategy is to rapidly commercialize moissanite jewels by building consumer brand awareness and growing distribution channels for our jewels. The timing of or potential for a significant increase in revenues is dependent on increasing market acceptance of moissanite jewels and increasing distribution and sales. Our business may also be subject to risks inherent in rapid increases in sales and production levels. Likewise, our products are subject to risks inherent in the development and marketing of new products, including unforeseen design, manufacturing or other problems or failure to develop market acceptance. Failure by us to expand distribution and achieve market acceptance of our products or to develop the ability to produce our products in higher quantities, while maintaining quality, would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in a growth stage of development, particularly operating in the early stages of manufacturing and distributing unproven products. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our future financial performance depends upon continued growth and consumer acceptance of our products. We believe that many retail jewelers and most consumers are not generally aware of the existence and attributes of moissanite jewels. The market for moissanite jewels among retail jewelers and consumers is in the early stages of development, as total moissanite jewelry retail sales during the year ended December 31, 2006 were less than 1% of the total jewelry market. The degree of future market acceptance and demand are subject to a significant amount of uncertainty. Our future financial performance will depend upon greater consumer acceptance of the Company’s moissanite jewels as distinct from all other jewels based on their fire, brilliance, luster, durability and rarity. In addition, consumer acceptance may be impacted by retail jewelers’ and jewelry manufacturers’ acceptance of moissanite jewels. We market loose jewels which jewelry distributors, manufacturers and retailers set in jewelry and in turn distribute or sell to consumers. 15 Table of Contents The quality, design and workmanship of the jewelry settings selected by retail jewelers, which is not within our control, could impact our consumers’ perception and acceptance of our jewels. Thus, our future financial performance may be impacted by: • the willingness and ability of our jewelry distributors and other jewelry suppliers, manufacturers and designers to market and promote moissanite jewels to the retail jewelry trade; • the willingness of distributors, retailers and others in the channel of distribution to purchase loose moissanite jewels and the willingness of manufacturers, designers and retail jewelers to undertake setting of the loose jewels; • the ability of manufacturers, designers and retail jewelers to select jewelry settings that encourage consumer acceptance of and demand for our jewels; • the ability of jewelry manufacturers and retail jewelers to set loose moissanite jewels in jewelry with high quality workmanship; and • the ability of retail jewelers to effectively market and sell moissanite jewelry to consumers. If our products do not receive greater market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We are substantially dependent on the sale of our jewels in North America through Reeves Park (a jewelry manufacturer), K&G Creations (a jewelry manufacturer and distributor), Samuel Aaron International (a jewelry manufacturer) and Stuller Settings, Inc. (a jewelry distributor and manufacturer) as well as a limited number of other distributors and jewelry manufacturers. We anticipate that the majority of the moissanite jewels that we sell in North America will be distributed through Reeves Park, K&G Creations, SAI and Stuller as well as a limited number of other manufacturers and distributors, and therefore, we are substantially dependent upon these companies for distribution of moissanite jewels in North America. During the year ended December 31, 2006, Reeves Park, K&G Creations, SAI, and Stuller accounted for 37%, 21%, 13%, and 8%, respectively. Through our efforts with Reeves Park, JCPenney was the first national retail chain to carry moissanite jewelry. Through our efforts with K&G Creations, moissanite jewelry was rolled out to a portion of the department stores whose jewelry counters are leased to Finlay Enterprises and through our efforts with SAI, moissanite jewelry was rolled out to a portion of the Kohl’s retail stores. We expect that, at least over the short-term, we will remain dependent on our ability and that of our manufacturing customers to maintain and enhance these programs. In addition, we are subject to a concentration of credit risk amongst our major customers and a default by any of these customers on their debts to us could cause a material change in our financial position. A prolonged economic downturn and the uncertainties caused by war or terrorism could adversely affect our operations. Purchases of jewelry, including purchases of our products, may be affected by any prolonged, negative trends in the general economy that adversely affect consumer spending. Any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income may adversely affect jewelry companies, in general, and our Company, in particular, more significantly than companies that rely less on discretionary consumer spending. Further, the affect that war and possible additional terrorist attacks may have on consumers and the economies of the United States, as well as other countries in which our products are sold, is unpredictable and uncertain. Any significant reduction in demand for our products would have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and could, if it continued, have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. We are subject to certain risks due to our international distribution channels and vendors. Charles & Colvard created Moissanite jewels are currently being distributed in substantially all of Western Europe, Australia, India, and certain countries in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. We currently have a total of approximately 30 international distributors. Our long-term strategy is to expand the number of international markets for our products. In addition, we expect to continue to use certain companies based outside the United States to facet our moissanite jewels. Due to our reliance on development of foreign 16 Table of Contents markets and use of foreign vendors, we are subject to the risks of conducting business outside of the United States. These risks include the following: • the adverse effects on United States-based companies operating in foreign markets that might result from war, terrorism, changes in diplomatic, trade or business relationships or other political, social, religious or economic instability; • unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; • delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses; • tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; and • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and other factors beyond our control. Additionally, while the majority of all foreign transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars, foreign currency fluctuations could impact demand for our products or the ability of our foreign suppliers to continue to perform. Further, some of these distributors operate relatively small businesses and may not have the financial stability to assure their continuing presence in their markets. There can be no assurance that the foregoing factors will not adversely affect our operations in the future or require us to modify our anticipated business practices. We expect to remain dependent upon Cree for the supply of a substantial majority of our SiC crystals for the foreseeable future. Cree has certain proprietary rights relating to its process for growing large single crystals of SiC and its process for growing colorless SiC crystals. Under our Exclusive Supply Agreement with Cree, we are obligated to buy from Cree, and Cree is obligated to sell to us, at least 50%, by dollar volume, of our requirements for SiC material for the production of gemstones in each calendar quarter. In February 2005, we entered into an Exclusive Supply Agreement with Norstel AB, which was amended in March 2007. However, Norstel AB has only demonstrated that it can produce suitable raw material in limited quantities. Therefore, we remain dependant on Cree for a substantial majority of our principal raw material for the foreseeable future. While Cree has improved its production processes and is currently producing SiC crystals sufficient to meet our requirements, we experienced difficulties in the past in obtaining crystals from Cree in the quality, sizes and volumes that we desired. We from time to time enter into purchase agreements with Cree with respect to our purchase commitments and the specific timing, pricing and other terms of future delivery of SiC crystals. There can be no assurance that Cree will be able to continue to produce and supply us with raw materials of sufficient quality, sizes and volumes that we desire nor that we will successfully negotiate purchase commitments that enable us to manage our inventories and raw material costs effectively. In addition, although Norstel AB represents a potential additional source of supply, Norstel AB does not presently have the capacity to produce significant quantities of SiC crystals of suitable quality and sizes, and there can be no assurance that they will ever develop these capabilities. We rely upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We have United States product and method patents for moissanite jewels under which we believe that we have broad, exclusive rights to manufacture, use and sell moissanite jewels in the United States. We have these same patents in a number of foreign jurisdictions. We believe that these patents create substantial technological barriers to our potential competitors. At the present time, we are also dependent on Cree’s technology for the production of SiC crystals. Cree is exclusively licensed to use a patent concerning a process for growing large single crystals of SiC, has certain patents of its own relating to growth of large single crystals of SiC and has a patent for a process for growing colorless SiC crystals. If Norstel AB becomes a significant additional source of supply, we will also become dependent on their technology. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to or licensed by or to us, Cree or Norstel AB will provide any significant commercial protection, that we, Cree or Norstel AB will have sufficient resources 17 Table of Contents to prosecute our respective patents or that any patents will be upheld by a court should we, or our suppliers seek to enforce our respective rights against an infringer. The existence of valid patents does not prevent other companies from independently developing competing technologies as evidenced by our agreement with Norstel AB. Existing producers of SiC crystals or others may refine existing processes for growing SiC crystals or develop new technologies for growing large single crystals of SiC or colorless SiC crystals in a manner that does not infringe patents owned or licensed by us or Cree. In addition, existing producers of SiC crystals, existing producers of other synthetic or natural gemstones or other parties may develop new technologies for producing moissanite jewels in a manner that does not infringe patents owned or licensed by us or Cree. As a result of the foregoing factors, existing and potential competitors may be able to develop products that are competitive with or superior to our products, and such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends upon our ability to identify, reach agreements with and work successfully with third parties. In addition to our current dependence on Cree and on third party distribution channels, our prospects depend upon our ability to identify, reach agreements with and work successfully with other third parties. In particular, we rely on third parties to facet our jewels. Faceting moissanite jewels requires different techniques than faceting diamond and other gemstones. There can be no assurance that we can maintain our relationships with our faceting vendors on terms satisfactory to us or that faceting vendors will continue to be able to provide faceting services in the quality and quantities required by us or that we will be able to find suitable replacements if we are unable to maintain such relationships. Our failure to achieve any of the above would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Governmental regulation and oversight might adversely impact our operations. We are subject to governmental regulations in the manufacture and sale of moissanite jewels. In particular, the Federal Trade Commission has the power to restrict the offer and sale of products that could deceive or have the tendency or effect of misleading or deceiving purchasers or prospective purchasers with regard to its type, kind, quality, character, origin or other characteristics. We may be under close scrutiny both by governmental agencies and by competitors in the gemstone industry, any of which may challenge our promotion and marketing of our moissanite jewel products. If our production or marketing of moissanite jewels is challenged by governmental agencies or competitors, or if regulations are issued that restrict our ability to market our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our reputation amongst jewelers and consumers could be damaged if low-quality gemstones or synthetics are marketed as moissanite. It is possible that low-quality gemstones or other synthetics could be marketed as moissanite. The sale of low-quality products as moissanite could damage our ability to foster the perception of moissanite as a unique jewel that compares favorably to other fine gemstones like diamond, ruby and emerald. This could damage our reputation among retail jewelers and consumers and result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products. The introduction of low-quality imitation moissanite jewels and our inability to limit the adverse effects thereof could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We face competition in the worldwide jewelry industry. The jewelry industry is highly competitive and we compete with numerous other jewelry products, including diamonds, cubic zirconium, and watches, among others. In addition, despite the positioning of moissanite as a unique jewel, we face competition from treated diamonds, synthetic diamonds, and companies developing other synthetic jewelry technologies. A substantial number of companies supply products to the jewelry industry, many of which we believe have greater financial resources than we do. Competitors could develop new or improved technologies that may render the pricing point for moissanite noncompetitive, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Sales of moissanite jewelry could be dependent upon the pricing of precious metals, which is beyond our control. Any increases in the market price of precious metals (primarily gold) could impact the pricing and sales of jewelry incorporating moissanite jewels. The majority of price increases in precious metals are passed on to the consumer in the form of higher prices for finished jewelry. These higher prices could have a negative impact on the sell through of moissanite jewelry at the retail level. Some anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents, agreements and plans may delay or prevent a takeover of the Company. A number of provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws impact matters of corporate governance and the rights of shareholders. Certain of these provisions have an anti-takeover effect and may delay or prevent takeover attempts not first approved by the Board of Directors (including takeovers that certain shareholders may deem to be in their best interests). These provisions also could delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors or the assumption of control by shareholders. We believe that these provisions are appropriate to protect our interests and all of our shareholders. Under the terms of the Exclusive Supply Agreement, we are prohibited from entering into an exclusive marketing or distribution agreement with DeBeers or its affiliates or any party whose primary business is the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of diamond gemstones or any non-gemstone and non-jewelry industry competitor of Cree. The Agreement also prohibits us from entering into certain merger, acquisition, sale of assets or similar transactions with a prohibited party. These provisions of the Exclusive Supply Agreement with Cree could limit the price that third parties might be willing to pay in the future for some or all of the shares of our common stock. In addition, this agreement could prevent us from entering into certain potentially profitable transactions with such prohibited parties. On February 21, 1999, we adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan under which all shareholders of record as of March 8, 1999, received rights to purchase shares of a new series of Preferred Stock. Each share of common stock issued after March 8, 1999 has received the same rights. The Rights Plan is designed to enable all of our shareholders to realize the full value of their investment and to provide for fair and equal treatment for all shareholders in the event that an unsolicited attempt is made to acquire us. The adoption of the Rights Plan is intended as a means to guard against abusive takeover tactics and is not in response to any particular proposal. The Rights, which expire in 2009, will be exercisable only if a person or group acquires 20% or more of our common stock or announces a tender offer for 20% or more of the common stock. If a person or group acquires 20% or more of our common stock, all shareholders except the purchaser will be entitled to acquire our common stock at a 50% discount. The effect will be to discourage acquisitions of more than 20% of our common stock without negotiations with the Board of Directors of the Company. The Rights will trade with our common stock, unless and until they are separated upon the occurrence of certain future events. Our Board of Directors may redeem the Rights prior to the expiration of a specified period following the acquisition of more than 20% of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 