ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common shares could decline due to any of these risks or other factors, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Our business depends upon the services of key personnel. Our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and to grow our business depends largely upon the services of our Co-Chairman, our Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business and overall results of operations. 14 WowWee’s future success depends largely on the continued contribution of its key designers and technical personnel. The loss of services of any of these key personnel could harm WowWee. Recruiting skilled designers and technical personnel is highly competitive. If WowWee fails to retain any of these key personnel, and/or fails to hire, train and integrate replacement personnel, it might not be able to maintain and expand its business, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. The loss of any of Optimal Payments’ senior officers could adversely affect its relationships with its strategic service providers, which would adversely affect its business. We may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to successfully integrate businesses we acquire into our operations. Our future growth strategy may include acquiring other businesses. For example, in November 2007 we acquired WowWee. However, we may not be able to identify and acquire suitable target businesses or, to the extent required, obtain financing for such acquisitions on satisfactory terms. Integrating acquired businesses into our operations may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: • the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating an acquisition, • the diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations, • the difficulty in integrating widely dispersed operations with distinct corporate cultures, • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business, • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technologies successfully, • the potential impairment of relationships with employees, customers and strategic partners, and • the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. Customer satisfaction or performance problems at an acquired business could adversely affect the reputation of our entire business. Future acquisitions may be financed through the issuance of common shares, which may dilute the ownership of our shareholders, or through the incurrence of indebtedness. Acquisitions may also result in significant charges to earnings. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that competition for acquisition candidates will not escalate, thereby increasing the costs of making acquisitions or making suitable acquisitions more difficult to find. We are subject to the risk that a taxation authority could challenge certain filing positions we have taken, and that a successful challenge could require us to pay significant additional taxes. Although we believe that all filing positions we take in our tax returns are reasonable and appropriate, there is no assurance that a taxation authority will not challenge those positions. Such challenges could include disputing positions taken in connection with the transfer of our online gaming processing business to FireOne Group plc and its affiliates in 2005, and the subsequent public offering of a portion of the FireOne Group plc ordinary shares. A challenge to certain filing positions we have taken, if successful, could result in us being required to pay additional taxes (including penalties and interest) and the amount of such additional taxes could be material to us. We are subject to exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar. The majority of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars and a significant portion of our expenses is incurred in Canadian dollars. A fluctuation in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar may result in variations in our revenues, expenses and earnings. We have not implemented a currency hedging program. Our operating strategy for WowWee might not succeed and the anticipated benefits to us from our acquisition of WowWee might not be realized. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of the WowWee business will depend, in part, on the successful implementation of specific new strategies designed to enhance the growth and financial performance of the WowWee business. These include: 15 • Expanding sales and distribution through a broadening of WowWee’s sales channels, particularly outside North America in emerging markets; • Expanding product design, development and production capabilities to produce an increased number of products at varying price points; • Broadening development initiatives into products that combine computer connectivity, utility and entertainment; • Embarking on branded entertainment initiatives, licensing, publishing and merchandising; and • Evaluating potential acquisition opportunities. If we fail to succeed in implementing these and other strategies that we might develop, WowWee could fail to grow, we may not realize the full benefits anticipated from the acquisition of the WowWee business, and our financial performance and results of operations could be adversely affected. If WowWee does not satisfy consumer preferences our results of operations may be adversely affected. WowWee competes with a wide range of manufacturers, marketers and sellers of consumer electronics and play products, many of which are larger than us and have greater financial resources than we do. Consumer preferences change. If its competitors’ products achieve greater market acceptance than WowWee’s products, WowWee’s products are unable to satisfy consumer preferences, or WowWee fails to respond to changes in consumer preferences with products that achieve and sustain market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, demand for WowWee’s products could decrease and our results of operations could be adversely affected. WowWee’s business is seasonal and its annual operating results depend, in large part, upon the relatively brief holiday season in the fourth quarter of the year. Retail sales of WowWee’s products are susceptible to seasonal variations, with a majority of sales occurring between September and December. As a result, WowWee’s operating results depend, in large part, upon sales made during this period. If WowWee achieves less than satisfactory sales, operating earnings or cash flows from operating activities during the September to December period in any fiscal year, we may not be able to compensate sufficiently for the lower sales, operating earnings, or cash flows from operating activities during the first eight months of the fiscal year. Improved inventory management by retailers resulting in shorter lead times for production and possible shipping disruptions during peak demand times may affect the ability of WowWee to deliver its products in time to meet retailer demands. As retailers attempt to manage their inventories better by requiring suppliers to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell products to consumers, suppliers such as WowWee may have shorter lead times for production, and disruptions in shipping, for any reason, from China during peak demand times may affect the ability of WowWee to deliver its products in time to meet retailer demand. WowWee’s sales are concentrated among a relatively small number of major retailer customers, which exposes WowWee to any financial difficulties or changes in purchasing preferences or policies of these customers. A small number of major retailer customers account for a large proportion of WowWee’s sales. WowWee’s customers make purchases by one-time purchase orders, as opposed to making long-term purchase commitments. These customers could reduce their overall purchases of WowWee’s products for any reason, including due to financial difficulties, or could reduce the shelf space allotted for such products. Any such change by a major customer of WowWee could significantly harm its business and our results of operations. Consolidation among WowWee’s major customers would compound the effect upon us of any financial difficulties suffered by such customers or any changes in the purchasing preferences or policies of such customers. Increased consolidation among its customers could negatively impact the ability of WowWee to negotiate higher sales prices for its products and could result in lower gross profit margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among its customers. 16 All of WowWee’s products are manufactured in China and we are subject to the risk that political developments, including currency revaluation and trade relations between China and the markets in which WowWee’s products are sold, could increase the costs of producing and delay or prevent shipping such products. All of WowWee’s products are manufactured by third parties in the People’s Republic of China. Social and economic conditions in China affecting the movement of products from China to the markets in which WowWee’s products are sold, particularly North America, and the labor and other costs of doing business in China could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. Factors that could negatively affect WowWee include a potential revaluation of the Chinese yuan, which may increase the cost of producing products in China, increased labor costs and labor disputes that could result in difficulties in transporting products manufactured in China to the ports on the western coast of North America. Also, a negative change in China’s trade status with the United States or the European Union, including the imposition of trade sanctions, could significantly increase the cost of products imported from China. Any increase in the cost of producing and the cost of, or disruptions in, shipping WowWee’s products in and from China could significantly adversely affect our results of operations. A reduction or interruption in the supply of raw materials, parts and components or a significant increase in the price of supplies used to produce WowWee’s products could negatively affect WowWee’s gross profit margins. WowWee may from time to time encounter shortages of materials, parts and components from its suppliers or a price increase in such materials, parts and components resulting from their shortage. Price increases for components such as resin used in plastics, rising fuel and transportation costs and raw material prices, may significantly reduce WowWee’s gross profit margins and our results of operations. Due to market conditions, timing of pricing decisions, competition and other factors, there can be no assurance that WowWee will be able to offset any of such increased costs by adjusting the prices of its products because increases in the prices of WowWee’s products could result in lower sales. As a developer and supplier of consumer products, WowWee is subject to various government regulations, violation of which could subject us to sanctions. As a developer and supplier of consumer products, WowWee operates in a highly regulated environment in the United States and international markets. Regulations that apply to its products and their importation include regulation of advertising directed toward children and product safety. There can be no assurance that WowWee or its products will be in compliance in the future with such regulations. In addition, changes in laws or regulations may lead to increased compliance-related costs in WowWee’s business. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in monetary liabilities and other sanctions which could have a negative impact on WowWee, our financial condition and our results of operations. WowWee could also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall, the costs of which could be significant. In addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of WowWee’s products. WowWee could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm WowWee. Products that have been or may be developed by WowWee may expose us to potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of such products. There can be no assurance that a claim will not be brought against us in the future. While we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain such coverage or such coverage may not be adequate to cover all potential claims. Moreover, even if we maintain sufficient insurance coverage, any successful claim could significantly harm WowWee, our financial condition and our results of operations. Failure by WowWee to protect its proprietary intellectual property and information could have a material adverse effect on WowWee, our financial condition and results of operations. The value of WowWee depends to a large degree on its ability to protect its intellectual property and information, including its trademarks, trade names, copyrights and trade secrets. WowWee’s business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting its products or infringing on its intellectual property rights. Any failure by WowWee to protect its proprietary intellectual property and information could have a material adverse effect on WowWee, our financial condition and our results of operations. 17 Optimal Payments is at risk of loss due to fraud, disputes and merchant insolvency. Optimal Payments faces risks of loss due to fraud and disputes between consumers and merchants, including the unauthorized use of credit card and bank account information and identity theft, merchant fraud, disputes over the quality of goods and services, breaches of system security, employee fraud and use of its system for illegal or improper purposes. When a consumer pays a merchant for goods or services using a credit card and the cardholder disputes the charge, the amount of the disputed item gets charged back to Optimal Payments and the credit card association may levy fees against Optimal Payments. Chargebacks can arise from the unauthorized use of a cardholder’s card number or from a cardholder’s claim that a merchant failed to perform a transaction. Disputes can also arise when a consumer pays a merchant for goods or services using a check and the financial institution returns the check. In addition, if Optimal Payments’ chargeback or dispute rate becomes excessive, credit card and check clearing associations may require it to pay fines and have done so in the past. There is a risk that Optimal Payments may be required to pay fines in the future and the amount of such fines may be material. While Optimal Payments attempts to recover from the merchant the amount charged back and the amount of any fines imposed upon it by credit card and check clearing associations, Optimal Payments may not always be successful in doing so for various reasons, such as merchant insolvency. Optimal Payments may not be able to safeguard against security and privacy breaches in its electronic transactions. A significant element of electronic commerce and communication is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Optimal Payments’ electronic commerce software uses encryption and authentication technology to securely transmit confidential information. Although Optimal Payments strives to use only proven applications for premium data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, use of these applications may not be sufficient to address changing market conditions or developments in technology or the security and privacy concerns of Optimal Payments’ existing and potential customers. Optimal Payments may not be able to prevent security or privacy breaches. A security or privacy breach could: • expose Optimal Payments to liability and to potentially costly litigation; • cause Optimal Payments to incur expenses relating to the remediation of these breaches; and • cause Optimal Payments’ customers to lose confidence in its services, harm its reputation, and deter customers from using Optimal Payments’ services. Although Optimal Payments requires that its agreements with service providers who have access to merchant and consumer data include confidentiality obligations that restrict these parties from using or disclosing any consumer or merchant data except as necessary to perform their services under the applicable agreements, there can be no assurance that these contractual measures will prevent the unauthorized disclosure of merchant or consumer data. Individuals may attempt to circumvent the measures that Optimal Payments takes to protect customer transaction data. Security breaches could result in the disclosure of proprietary information, such as bank account or credit card information. If Optimal Payments is unable to protect the security and privacy of its electronic transactions and data, it could be exposed to risk of loss, litigation and possible liability, and its business volume, revenues and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. 18 Optimal Payments’ payments systems might be used for illegal or improper purposes. Despite its measures to detect and prevent identity theft, unauthorized use of credit cards, and similar misconduct, and to monitor and comply with laws and regulations restricting or prohibiting the processing of certain types of transactions for its merchant customers, Optimal Payments’ payments systems are susceptible to illegal or improper uses by third parties. These uses may include illegal online gaming, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, software and other intellectual property piracy, money laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products and online securities fraud. Illegal or improper use of payments systems may lead to increased government regulation of Optimal Payments or other legal consequences which may have an adverse impact on its revenues and results of operations. Laws or regulations that restrict or prohibit the business activities of Optimal Payments’ merchant customers may prevent Optimal Payments from providing, or may make it impracticable for it to continue to provide, its payments systems to such merchants and their customers, which would adversely affect its revenues and results of operations. Optimal Payments must comply with credit card and check clearing association rules and practices, which could impose additional costs and burdens on its payments business. Optimal Payments must comply with the operating rules of the various credit card associations and check clearing associations with which it is registered, such as the National Automated Clearing House Association for checks. The associations could adopt operating rules with which it may be difficult or impossible for Optimal Payments to comply. In addition, cases of fraud or disputes between consumers and merchants can result in chargebacks. If Optimal Payments’ chargebacks or disputes become excessive, its processing suppliers could fine it or terminate its ability to accept credit cards or checks for payments. The termination of its relationship with credit card or check clearing associations, or acquiring banks, would limit its ability to provide transaction processing services. Optimal Payments may not be able to develop new services that are accepted by its customers. The success of Optimal Payments’ operations depends upon acceptance of its electronic payments technology by merchants. Optimal Payments may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new services and enhancements, or new services and enhancements may not be introduced in a timely fashion or may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. The failure of Optimal Payments’ systems, the systems of third parties or the Internet could negatively impact its business and harm its reputation for reliability. Computer viruses, disgruntled or rogue employees, electronic break-ins, power losses, telecommunications failures, security breaches, natural disasters and similar events could damage or disrupt the function of Optimal Payments’ systems and those of third parties upon whom it relies, such as bank processing and credit card systems, thereby adversely affecting Optimal Payments’ business and reputation. Optimal Payments’ insurance policies may not adequately compensate it for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in these systems. Higher transaction volumes may require Optimal Payments to expand and upgrade its technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. It could experience periodic, temporary capacity constraints, which may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times and reduced levels of customer service. Optimal Payments may be unable to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of its services or to expand and upgrade its systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases in a timely manner. Optimal Payments has developed a formal disaster recovery plan designed to safeguard against system failures, however, there is no assurance that any disaster recovery plan that it might implement will protect it from all possible system failures. 19 Increasing government regulation of Internet commerce could make it more costly or difficult for Optimal Payments to conduct its business. As Internet commerce continues to grow, it may become the subject of increasing government regulation. Much of the current legislation relating to commercial transactions pre-dates and may be incompatible with Internet electronic commerce. Well-established financial institutions and credit card companies may be able to influence the development of regulations that prioritize their interests to Optimal Payments’ detriment. Regulators may choose to enact or enforce legislation that restricts Optimal Payments’ operations and other aspects of the electronic commerce market. Moreover, it may take years to determine the extent to which existing laws relating to issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet. Existing legislation in Canada, the United States and abroad regulates communications and commerce specifically. However, the application of such laws in the context of the Internet and electronic commerce is uncertain. Laws and regulations that address issues such as user privacy, pricing, online content regulation, taxation and the characteristics and quality of online services are under consideration by federal, provincial, state, local and foreign governments and agencies. New laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or applications or interpretations of existing laws, that decrease the growth in the use of the Internet or demand for Optimal Payments’ electronic commerce services, or that increase the costs associated with providing such services or transmitting data over the Internet could adversely affect our results of operations. If Optimal Payments’ relationships with its banking partners deteriorated, its ability to process transactions could be impaired or halted. Optimal Payments relies on strategic partnerships and suppliers to help supply, promote and distribute its services. Optimal Payments particularly depends upon its strategic banking relationships. The credit card association members and financial institutions that process electronic transactions have adopted guidelines that apply to online transactions. While we believe that Optimal Payments’ operations comply with these guidelines, credit card association members and financial institutions could nonetheless decide in the future to refuse to process transactions for Optimal Payments. Such a decision could be implemented with little or no advance notice to Optimal Payments. If such a situation occurred and Optimal Payments were not able to conclude alternative arrangements with other credit card association members or financial institutions, its ability to carry out payment transactions could be impaired or even halted. It may be difficult or costly for Optimal Payments to enforce its rights with respect to assets held in foreign jurisdictions. Certain of Optimal Payments’ suppliers’ processing agreements require it to maintain cash reserves with such suppliers. In some instances, these suppliers are located in overseas jurisdictions, including the Caribbean and Europe. If a processing supplier does not release its reserves in accordance with its contractual obligations, Optimal Payments will be required to take legal action within that foreign jurisdiction. Recovering funds held as reserves through legal action in foreign jurisdictions could be costly and difficult and the diversion of resources required to pursue the funds could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Optimal Payments’ intellectual property rights may be infringed by unauthorized third parties. Optimal Payments relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure and release of interest in intellectual property agreements and license agreements to establish and protect its proprietary rights in its service offerings and technology. The source codes for Optimal Payments’ service offerings and technology are protected both as trade secrets and as unpublished, unregistered copyrighted works. However, Optimal Payments currently has no patents for its service offerings and technology. 20 Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use Optimal Payments’ services or technology without authorization or to develop similar technology independently. Policing unauthorized use of its services is and will continue to be difficult, particularly in light of the global nature of Optimal Payments’ operations, and the laws of other jurisdictions may offer it little or no effective protection of its intellectual property rights. Optimal Payments relies in part on “on-screen” licenses, which are not manually signed by end-users and, therefore, may be unenforceable under some laws. Optimal Payments may bring litigation proceedings to enforce its intellectual property rights; however, such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources. In addition, there is no assurance that Optimal Payments’ services are not within the scope of intellectual property rights held by others, either now or in the future. If a claim is asserted against it by a third party, Optimal Payments may be forced to seek a license from that third party for the use of the applicable intellectual property. Such a license, if required, may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Optimal Payments operates in a competitive market for its services. Potential competitors in Optimal Payments’ market include credit card association members, financial institutions, payment processors and other similar entities, some of which may have greater financial resources than we do, more firmly entrenched market positions or greater brand recognition. These potential competitors may require that their own technology, rather than the technology of third parties such as Optimal Payments, be used in connection with their payment mechanisms. Competition is likely to intensify as the market develops and matures, which could result in downward pressure on Optimal Payments’ prices, reduce its margins and erode its market share. Optimal Payments may not be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new services or offer new services that appeal to its customers as fast as its competitors or respond effectively to technological changes or product innovations by its competitors. If Optimal Payments fails to anticipate or respond effectively to technological developments and customer requirements or experiences significant delays in product developments or roll-outs, it may lose its market share and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Optimal Payments relies upon non-exclusive arrangements with independent sales agents to acquire and retain its customers. In addition to its internal sales and marketing efforts, Optimal Payments relies upon independent sales agents to acquire and retain its customers. Its arrangements with these independent sales agents are non-exclusive. As a result, Optimal Payments’ sales agents may enter into arrangements with Optimal Payments’ competitors that provide preferential treatment to those competitors or they may terminate their arrangements with Optimal Payments. If Optimal Payments fails to maintain strong relationships with its independent sales agents or fails to provide its independent sales agents with sufficient incentives to motivate their sales efforts, Optimal Payments’ customer base may not expand and could decrease. Optimal Payments’ services are based on sophisticated technology, which may be negatively affected by technological defects and product development delays. Services based on sophisticated technology and computing systems, such as Optimal Payments’ payment processing services, often encounter development delays, and the underlying technology may contain undetected defects when introduced or when the volume of services provided increases. Optimal Payments may experience delays in the development of its transaction processing services or the technology and computing systems underlying its services. In addition, despite testing, it is possible that Optimal Payments’ technology may nevertheless contain errors, and this could delay product launches and innovations and damage its customer relations. Optimal Payments’ business is subject to fluctuations in general business conditions. The current downturn in general economic conditions has caused some of Optimal Payments’ merchant customers to experience difficulty in supporting their current operations and implementing their business plans. If these merchants make fewer sales of their products and services, Optimal Payments will have fewer transactions to process, resulting in lower revenues. 21 In addition, in a recessionary environment, the merchants Optimal Payments serves become subject to a higher risk of insolvency, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Optimal Payments bears the credit risk for chargebacks related to billing disputes between credit card holders and merchants. If a merchant seeks protective relief under bankruptcy laws or is otherwise unable or unwilling to reimburse Optimal Payments for chargebacks borne by Optimal Payments, Optimal Payments may be liable for the full transaction amount of a chargeback. Due to recently enacted legislation in the United States, our formerly majority owned subsidiary, FireOne Group plc, has ceased processing settlements for online gaming transactions originating from United States customers and, as a result, Optimal Payments’ revenues decreased significantly. Optimal Payments may not be able to replace the revenues lost from the cessation of this business. On October 13, 2006, the United States Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 was enacted. The Act prohibits any person engaged in the business of betting or wagering from knowingly accepting payments related to unlawful bets or wagers transmitted over the Internet. The Act also instructs the U.S. Treasury Department and Federal Reserve to impose new obligations upon financial institutions and other payment processors to establish procedures designed to block online gaming-related financial transactions. It also expressly requires Internet bets and wagers to comply with the law of the jurisdiction where the wagers are initiated and received. Upon passage of the Act, our then majority owned subsidiary, FireOne Group plc, ceased processing settlement transactions originating from United States customers that may be viewed as related to online gaming. The cessation of this portion of our payments processing business had a material adverse effect on our revenues and our results of operations from our payments processing business.Optimal Payments is actively pursuing strategies to replace the revenues that were lost due to the cessation of processing online gaming transactions originating from U.S. consumers. However, it may not be able to identify and engage in other opportunities that will offset the loss of these revenues. The legal status of online gaming is uncertain in some of the jurisdictions in which Optimal Payments continues to provide settlement processing services for online gaming activities. Future regulation or enforcement proceedings may make it costly or impossible for Optimal Payments to continue processing transactions for gaming merchants in those jurisdictions and may subject us to substantial penalties. Reports of regulatory initiatives or enforcement proceedings that are unfavorable to Optimal Payments or to its customers or suppliers may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. In many jurisdictions there are few, if any, laws or regulations that deal directly with payment processing for online gaming transactions. The legal status of online gaming itself is uncertain in many of the jurisdictions in which Optimal Payments operates. While some jurisdictions have taken the position that online gaming is legal and have adopted or are in the process of reviewing legislation to regulate online gaming, other jurisdictions have taken the opposite view and enacted legislation to attempt to restrict or prohibit online gaming. For example, the United States Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 prohibits any person engaged in the business of betting or wagering from knowingly accepting payments related to unlawful bets or wagers transmitted over the Internet, which resulted in our then majority owned subsidiary, FireOne Group plc, ceasing to process settlement transactions originating from United States customers that may be viewed as related to online gaming. If other governments also decide to enact legislation restricting or prohibiting online gaming activities in their jurisdictions, Optimal Payments may also have to cease processing settlement transactions in those jurisdictions. In addition, we may be exposed to adverse consequences as a result of future enforcement proceedings, governmental investigations or lawsuits initiated against Optimal Payments in jurisdictions where online gaming is or becomes restricted or prohibited, including the United States in the aftermath of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006. Any adverse findings, rulings or judgments rendered against Optimal Payments could involve substantial penalties, fines, injunctions or other sanctions being invoked against it and could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Any future enforcement or legal proceedings threatened or commenced against Optimal Payments relating to online gaming, whether or not ultimately successful, could involve substantial litigation expense and the diversion of the attention of key executives. The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted. Future regulation, lawsuits, investigations, enforcement actions or other similar actions by law enforcement or regulatory authorities, whether directed against Optimal Payments, its competitors, customers or suppliers, may also make it costly or unfeasible for Optimal Payments to continue processing transactions for gaming merchants in the jurisdictions in which it continues such processing activities. Further, any actual or threatened legislative development or regulatory proceedings in those jurisdictions that negatively affects a participant in the online gaming industry could further adversely affect the 22 trading price of our common shares. From time to time, reports about regulatory initiatives, or enforcement proceedings that are or would be unfavorable to us, or to Optimal Payments’ customers or suppliers, have had a swift and negative impact on the trading price of our common shares, and our common shares may again experience trading price volatility in the future due to such reports. Optimal Payments’ status under certain financial services regulations is unclear. Optimal Payments operates in an industry subject to government regulation. Optimal Payments currently is subject to money laundering regulations and might now or in the future be subject to money transmitter or electronic money regulations in various jurisdictions. If Optimal Payments is found to be in violation of any current or future regulations, it could be exposed to financial liability, including substantial fines which could be imposed on a per transaction basis and disgorgement of our profits, forced to change its business practices, or forced to cease doing business altogether or with the residents of one or more jurisdictions. We have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net income. Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition accounted for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. Current accounting standards require that goodwill be periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of the reporting unit. We tested Optimal Payments for impairment at December 31, 2007 and revised our forecast to reflect higher merchant attrition and lower growth expectations for this business segment. As a result, a goodwill impairment loss of approximately $22.6 million was recognized in this business segment. After recording this impairment loss, at December 31, 2007, approximately $66.2 million, or 22.8%, of our total assets represented goodwill. Any further declines in our assessment of the fair value of Optimal Payments and any decline in our assessment of the fair value of WowWee may impact the carrying value of these two business segments, which could result in a further write-down of our goodwill and a reduction in our net income. We may be subject to additional litigation stemming from our operation of the U-scan self-checkout business. In 2004, we settled an action alleging that the U-Scan self-checkout systems that we marketed infringed upon the claimant’s patent. In 1999, 2001 and 2003, a second party sent demand letters to us alleging a different patent infringement. We may in the future be subject to other litigation relating to our prior involvement in the self-checkout business. Defending against such litigation may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our current businesses, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have nothing to report under this item. 