Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing business environment that involves substantial risk and uncertainty, and these risks may change over time. The following discussion addresses some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause, or contribute to causing, actual results to differ materially from expectations. In evaluating our business, you should pay particular attention to the descriptions of risks and uncertainties described below. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our future financial performance depends upon increased consumer acceptance, growth of sales of our products, and operational execution of our strategic initiatives. We believe that most consumers are not generally aware of the existence and attributes of moissanite jewels and that the consumer market for moissanite jewels and finished jewelry featuring moissanite remains in the early stages of development. Total moissanite jewelry retail sales have historically been less than 1% of the total jewelry market. The degree of future market acceptance and demand is subject to a significant amount of uncertainty. Our future financial performance will depend, in part, upon greater consumer acceptance of moissanite jewels, including both our classic moissanite jewels and our whiter Forever Brilliant® jewels, as an affordable, luxurious alternative to other gemstones, such as diamond; and our ability to develop brands and execute strategic initiatives, in particular, our direct-to-consumer e-commerce and home party businesses, to grow our sales and operating income. As we execute our strategy to build and reinvest in our businesses, significant expenses and investment of cash will be required ahead of the revenue streams we expect in the future, and this may adversely affect our operating income. If we are unable to execute and achieve desired revenue levels, we may adjust our strategic initiatives in response to the results of our investments. In addition, consumer acceptance may be affected by retail jewelers’ and jewelry manufacturers’ acceptance of moissanite jewels and finished jewelry featuring moissanite. The quality, design, and workmanship of the jewelry settings, whether manufactured by us or other manufacturers, could affect both consumers’ perception and acceptance of our jewels and costs incurred by returns and markdowns. Thus, our future financial performance may be affected by: · our continued success in developing and promoting brands for our moissanite jewel and finished jewelry featuring moissanite, resulting in increased interest and demand for moissanite jewelry at the consumer level; · the continued willingness and ability of our jewelry distributors and other jewelry suppliers, manufacturers, and designers to market and promote Charles & Colvard Created Moissanite®, including both our classic moissanite jewels and Forever Brilliant® jewels, to the retail jewelry trade; · the continued willingness of distributors, retailers, and others in the channel of distribution to purchase loose Charles & Colvard Created Moissanite®, including both our classic moissanite jewels and Forever Brilliant® jewels, and the continued willingness of manufacturers, designers, and retail jewelers to undertake setting of the loose jewels; · our continued ability and the ability of manufacturers, designers, and retail jewelers to select jewelry settings that encourage consumer acceptance of and demand for our moissanite jewels and finished jewelry; · our continued ability and the ability of jewelry manufacturers and retail jewelers to set loose moissanite jewels in finished jewelry with high-quality workmanship; · our continued ability and the ability of retail jewelers to effectively market and sell finished jewelry featuring moissanite, including finished jewelry featuring both our classic moissanite jewels and Forever Brilliant® jewels, to consumers; · our ability to operationally execute our direct-to-consumer e-commerce and home party businesses; and · our ability to execute a move to a new corporate headquarters and manufacturing facility without significant disruptions to the business. We are currently substantially dependent on a limited number of distributors, jewelry manufacturers, and retailers for the sale of our products. The majority of the moissanite jewels and finished jewelry featuring moissanite that we sell are distributed through a limited number of distributors, manufacturers, and retailers and, therefore, we are substantially dependent upon these companies for distribution of our products. During 2013, our three largest customers, two of which are loose jewel and finished jewelry distributors and one of which is a television shopping network loose jewel and finished jewelry retailer, collectively accounted for 36% of net sales. As we continue to build our finished jewelry business, we anticipate in the near term that the majority of the moissanite jewels and finished jewelry featuring moissanite that we sell will continue to be to a limited number of manufacturers, distributors, and retailers. 13 Table of Contents The execution of our business plans could significantly impact our liquidity. The execution of our business plans to expand our direct-to-consumer distribution channels and to create required inventory of our new Forever Brilliant® jewels require significant investments, which has reduced our cash position. Should we fail to execute on our business plans, we could see delays in the return of cash from our investments, resulting in a liquidity shortfall. Under the $10,000,000 revolving line of credit, or the Line of Credit, that we obtained from PNC Bank, National Association, or PNC Bank, on September 20, 2013, failure to execute could trigger covenants in our Line of Credit agreement that may restrict our ability to draw on the Line of Credit. If we are not able to take advances against the Line of Credit, our cash and cash equivalents and other working capital may be insufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs. Our business and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result of our inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis. As sales of our loose moissanite jewels increase, including our whiter Forever Brilliant® jewels, certain shapes and sizes may be at risk for depletion. In addition, finished jewelry has a large variety of styles of which we maintain on-hand stock for such basic designs as stud earrings, solitaire and three-stone rings, pendants, and bracelets; and make-to-order under strict deadlines for certain wholesale and direct-to-consumer e-commerce customers. We must adequately forecast demand and operate within the lead times of third parties that facet and/or enhance the jewels and manufacture the finished jewelry setting to ensure adequate on-hand quantities and/or the shipment of customer orders in a timely manner. The inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis and within promised customer deadlines could result in a cancellation of the orders and loss of customer goodwill that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The financial difficulties or insolvency of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect results. We are subject to a concentration of credit risk amongst our major customers, and a default by any of these customers on their debts to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Future sales and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of our customers. We estimate an allowance for accounts for which collectability is at risk and this allowance adversely impacts profitability. In the event customers experience greater than anticipated financial difficulties or insolvency, we expect profitability to be adversely impacted by our failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. Given the current economic environment, constrained access to capital and general market contractions may heighten our exposure to customer default. We expect to remain dependent upon Cree for the sole supply of our SiC crystals for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to obtain sufficient, high-quality SiC crystals from Cree and we have a significant increase in demand for our moissanite jewel, then we may not be able to meet that demand. Cree has certain proprietary rights relating to its process for growing large single crystals of SiC and its process for growing near-colorless SiC crystals. Under the Cree Exclusive Supply Agreement, we are obligated to buy from Cree, and Cree is obligated to sell to us, at least 50%, by dollar volume, of our requirements for SiC material for the production of gemstones in each calendar quarter through June 2015. Effective February 8, 2013, we entered into an amendment to a prior letter agreement with Cree, which provides a framework for our purchases of SiC crystals under the Cree Exclusive Supply Agreement. Pursuant to this amendment, we agreed to purchase at least $4.00 million of SiC crystals in an initial new order. After the initial new order, we have agreed to issue non-cancellable, quarterly orders that must equal or exceed a set minimum order quantity. Our total purchase commitment under the amendment (as subsequently amended) until July 2015, including the initial new order, is dependent upon the grade of the material and ranges between approximately $7.64 million and approximately $18.56 million. However, there can be no assurance that Cree will be able to continue to produce and supply us with SiC crystals of sufficient quality, sizes, and volumes that we desire or that we will successfully negotiate future purchase commitments at acceptable prices that enable us to manage our inventories and raw material costs effectively. Our current wholesale customers may potentially perceive us as a competitor in the finished jewelry business. As described above, we are currently substantially dependent on a limited number of customers, including distributors and jewelry manufacturers, for the sale of our products. Our design, manufacture, and marketing of finished jewelry featuring moissanite under exclusive brands for sale to distributors and retailers may result in some of these current customers perceiving us as a competitor, despite our efforts to use primarily non-conflicting sales channels. In response, these customers may choose to reduce their orders for our products. This reduction in orders could occur faster than our sales growth in this new business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents We face intense competition in the worldwide jewelry industry. The jewelry industry is highly competitive and we compete with numerous other jewelry products. In addition, we face competition from treated diamonds, synthetic diamonds, and companies developing other synthetic jewelry technologies. A substantial number of companies supply products to the jewelry industry, many of which we believe have greater financial resources than we do. Competitors could develop new or improved technologies that may render the price point for moissanite noncompetitive, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result of general economic and market conditions, including the current economic environment. Global financial markets have and continue to experience extreme disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increased unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the effects of these disruptions in the financial markets and the adverse global economic conditions, and if the current uncertainty continues or economic conditions further deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The consequences of such adverse effects could include interruptions or delays in our suppliers’ performance of our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers and/or suppliers. Luxury products, such as fine jewelry, are discretionary purchases for consumers. The reduction in consumer discretionary spending, largely attributed to the conditions described above, affected our industry more significantly than many other industries. Consumer discretionary spending is strongly affected by economic factors outside our control, including the condition of financial markets, consumer credit availability, prevailing interest rates, energy costs, employment levels, salary levels, and tax rates. While discretionary consumer spending trends have improved, a reduction in discretionary consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to certain risks due to our international distribution channels and vendors. We currently have over 30 international distributors for moissanite jewels covering portions of Western Europe, Australia, India, Southeast Asia, and the Middle East. In addition, we use certain companies based outside the U.S. to facet our moissanite jewels and to manufacture finished jewelry. Due to our reliance on development of foreign markets and use of foreign vendors, we are subject to the risks of conducting business outside of the U.S. These risks include the following: · the adverse effects on U.S.-based companies operating in foreign markets that might result from war; terrorism; changes in diplomatic, trade, or business relationships; or other political, social, religious, or economic instability; · the continuing adverse economic effects of the recent global financial crisis; · unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; · delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses; · tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; · the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and other factors beyond our control; · the potential difficulty of enforcing agreements with foreign customers and suppliers; and · the complications related to collecting receivables through a foreign country’s legal system. Additionally, while the majority of our foreign transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars, foreign currency fluctuations could impact demand for our products or the ability of our foreign suppliers to continue to perform. Further, some of our foreign distributors operate relatively small businesses and may not have the financial stability to assure their continuing presence in their markets. There can be no assurance that the foregoing factors will not adversely affect our operations in the future or require us to modify our anticipated business practices. Sales of moissanite jewelry could be dependent upon the pricing of precious metals, which is beyond our control. Any increases in the market price of precious metals (primarily gold) could affect the pricing and sales of jewelry incorporating moissanite jewels, including jewelry manufactured by us. The majority of price increases in precious metals are passed on to the end consumer in the form of higher prices for finished jewelry. These higher prices could have a negative impact on the sell-through of moissanite jewelry at the retail level. From the beginning of 2006 through 2013, the price of gold has increased significantly (approximately 127%), resulting in higher retail price points for gold jewelry. This has had a negative impact on both sales of moissanite jewelry and the jewelry industry as a whole. 15 Table of Contents Seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income. Sales in the retail jewelry industry are typically seasonal due to increased consumer purchases during the Christmas and holiday season. Because historically we have primarily sold our loose jewels and finished jewelry featuring moissanite at wholesale to distributors, manufacturers, and retailers, our sales to support the holiday season largely have taken place during the third and beginning of the fourth calendar quarters, depending on the sales channel and the level of advance planning and production our customers undertook. As sales of our finished jewelry featuring moissanite to retailers and directly to consumers increase, both in dollars and as a percentage of total sales, our fourth quarter results may depend upon the general level of retail sales during the Christmas and holiday season as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In anticipation of increased sales activities during the fourth quarter, we may incur significant additional expenses, including higher inventory of finished jewelry in the second half of the year. In 2013 and 2012, we experienced a higher degree of seasonality in the fourth quarter than we have previously experienced primarily as a result of Christmas and holiday season finished jewelry sales to television shopping networks. In the fourth quarter of 2012 and 2013, we also experienced a higher level of sales to end consumers through our direct-to-consumer e-commerce website, Moissanite.com. Our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including seasonal cycles, the timing of new product introductions, the timing of orders by our customers, and the mix of product sales demand and these factors may significantly affect our results of operations in a given quarter. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our products and brands and adversely affect our business. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We have U.S. product and method patents for moissanite jewels, expiring in 2015, under which we believe that we have broad, exclusive rights to manufacture, use, and sell moissanite jewels in the U.S. We have these same patents in a number of foreign jurisdictions, most of which expire in 2016. We believe that these patents create substantial technological barriers to our potential competitors. At the present time, we are also dependent on Cree’s technology for the production of SiC crystals. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to or licensed by or to us or Cree will provide any significant commercial protection, that we or Cree will have sufficient resources to protect our respective patents, that any additional patents will be issued in the future, or that any existing or future patents will be upheld by a court should we or Cree seek to enforce our respective rights against an infringer. Our former South Korean patent is no longer valid as a result of a ruling by the South Korean Patent Court, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur similar outcomes in other jurisdictions in the future. For example, on August 14, 2012, we learned that BetterThanDiamond.com requested that the Canadian Intellectual Property Office, or CIPO, conduct a re-examination of our Canadian Patent No. 2,230,262, or the ‘262 Patent, for manufacturing SiC gemstones based on claims of prior art. On November 3, 2012, the CIPO granted the re-examination request based on its finding that the information provided in the request raises “a substantial new question of patentability.” The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, upheld in October 2012 all claims of our U.S. Patent No. 5,723,391 in a similar challenge by BetterThanDiamond.com, but there is no certainty of the same outcome with respect to the challenge of the ‘262 Patent. If the CIPO were to determine that some or all of the claims in the ‘262 Patent are invalid, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively impacted. In addition, the re-examination of the ‘262 Patent could result in substantial legal expenses and could divert our management’s time and attention away from our business operations. We believe that all of the claims of the ‘262 Patent are valid and enforceable, and we intend to vigorously defend the patents that protect our moissanite jewels and technology. The existence of valid patents does not prevent other companies from independently developing competing technologies. Existing producers of SiC crystals or others may refine existing processes for growing SiC crystals or develop new technologies for growing large single crystals of SiC or colorless SiC crystals in a manner that does not infringe patents owned or licensed by us or Cree. Accordingly, existing and potential competitors may be able to develop products that are competitive with or superior to our products, and such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents In addition, we have certain trademarks and pending trademark applications that support our moissanite branding strategy, and we use certain brand names for which we do not currently have proprietary rights. The success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing brand names in order to increase consumer awareness and further develop strong brands around our moissanite jewel and finished jewelry collections. We cannot assure that any future trademark or other registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that we will be able to obtain licenses or other contractual rights to use brand names that may infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. We also cannot assure that any registered or unregistered trademarks or other intellectual property or contractual rights will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. Our inability to secure proprietary protection with respect to our brands could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We also cannot be certain that our products and brand names do not or will not infringe valid patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation to determine the validity of any third party’s claims could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor. In the event of an adverse result of any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses for, and pay royalties on the use of, the technology subject to the litigation. We have no assurance that we would be successful in such development or that any such license would be available on commercially reasonable terms. A failure of our information technology (IT) infrastructure or a failure to protect confidential information of our customers and our network against security breaches could adversely impact our business and operations. We rely upon the capacity, reliability, and security of our information technology infrastructure and our ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to the changing needs of our business. For example, we are continuing to implement new modules of jewelry-specific enterprise resource planning software and other IT systems, such as those that support our Moissanite.com e-commerce and Lulu Avenue® home party businesses. As we implement and integrate the new systems, they may not perform as expected. We also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades. If we experience a problem with the functioning of an important IT system or a security breach of our IT systems, the resulting disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we and certain of our third-party vendors receive and store personal information associated with our sales operations and other aspects of our business. In connection with our e-commerce and home party businesses, we rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Despite our implementation of security measures, our IT systems and e-commerce and home party businesses are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber attack, and other similar disruptions. An increasing number of websites and Internet companies have reported breaches of their security. Any such compromise of our security could damage our reputation, business, and brand and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations, damage our computers or those of our customers, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of countries in which our e-commerce and home party websites operate. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. If we fail to evaluate, implement, and integrate strategic acquisition or disposition opportunities successfully, our business may suffer. From time to time we evaluate strategic opportunities available to us for product, technology, or business acquisitions or dispositions. If we choose to make acquisitions or dispositions, we face certain risks, such as failure of an acquired business to meet our performance expectations, diversion of management attention, retention of existing customers of our current and acquired business, and difficulty in integrating or separating a business’s operations, personnel, and financial and operating systems. We may not be able to successfully address these risks or any other problems that arise from future acquisitions or dispositions. Any failure to successfully evaluate strategic opportunities and address risks or other problems that arise related to any acquisition or disposition could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Governmental regulation and oversight might adversely impact our operations. We are subject to governmental regulations in the manufacture and sale of moissanite jewels and finished jewelry. In particular, the FTC has issued regulations and guidelines governing the marketing of synthetic gemstones and other gemstones similar to diamond that require such gemstones to be clearly identified in any promotional or marketing materials. In addition, the precious metal in our finished jewelry may be subject to requirements, which vary by country and by state, such as hallmarking and alloy content. We may be under close scrutiny both by governmental agencies and by competitors in the gemstone industry, any of which may challenge our promotion and marketing of our moissanite jewel and finished jewelry products. While we have a policy to ensure compliance with applicable regulations, if our production or marketing of moissanite jewels and/or finished jewelry is challenged by governmental agencies or competitors, or if regulations are issued that restrict our ability to market our products, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. New regulations related to “conflict minerals” may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain materials used in manufacturing our products. In August 2012, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC adopted new disclosure regulations for public companies that manufacture products that contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold, known as conflict minerals, if these minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of the company’s products. These regulations require such companies to report annually, beginning in May 2014, whether or not the minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for the minerals. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of conflict minerals used in the manufacture of our finished jewelry. In addition, we expect to incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our finished jewelry, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Because our supply chain is complex, the procedures that we implement may not enable us to sufficiently verify the origins of these minerals, which may harm our reputation. These new requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. Some anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents and agreements may delay or prevent a takeover of our company. A number of provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws impact matters of corporate governance and the rights of shareholders. Certain of these provisions have an anti-takeover effect and may delay or prevent takeover attempts not first approved by our Board of Directors (including takeovers that certain shareholders may deem to be in their best interests). These provisions also could delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors or the assumption of control by shareholders. We believe that these provisions are appropriate to protect our interests and the interests of all of our shareholders. Under the terms of the Cree Exclusive Supply Agreement, we are prohibited from entering into an exclusive marketing or distribution agreement with DeBeers or its affiliates or any party whose primary business is the development, manufacture, marketing, or sale of diamond gemstones or any non-gemstone and non-jewelry industry competitor of Cree. The agreement also prohibits us from entering into certain merger, acquisition, sale of assets, or similar transactions with a prohibited party. These provisions of the agreement could limit the price that third parties might be willing to pay in the future for some or all of the shares of our common stock. In addition, this agreement could prevent us from entering into certain potentially profitable transactions with such prohibited parties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 