ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common shares could decline due to any of these risks or other factors, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. We may be unable to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The going-concern basis of presentation assumes that we will continue our operations for the foreseeable future and be able to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. We have incurred a net loss from continuing operations of $67.8 million and a net cash outflows from operating activities excluding discontinued operations of $19.8 million. The recent banking and financial crisis and the global economic recession have created an extremely challenging retail and economic environment in the United States, Canada and Europe, which has negatively impacted our operating performance and potentially that of our customers and suppliers. Our ability to continue as a going concern depends on the success of management’s plans to overcome these conditions and ultimately achieve positive cash flows from operations and become profitable. We currently fund the majority of our operations from our cash and cash equivalents and bank indebtedness. The majority of our bank indebtedness is based on qualifying accounts receivable and is otherwise not fully available to be drawn on during seasonal low sale periods due to the lack of accounts receivable available at the time. We have been unable to secure any new sources of financing not secured by accounts receivable which will be required during low seasonal sale periods of the year. Our balance of cash and cash equivalents generally decreases during the second and third quarters of the year, as cash is used to fund product development and production, and increases in the fourth and first quarters in connection with the shipping and collection periods. If operating performance continues in its current trend, we will require financing in order to meet our cash flow requirements and fund our operations especially during the second and third quarters of 2010. However, additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms that are acceptable to us. Without financing, we may be unable to fund product development and the production of inventory required for sales in the third and fourth quarters and therefore will not be able to capitalize on potential future sales. Refer to note 27, of the notes to our consolidated financial statements — Subsequent events, for the details of a take-over bid which we are supporting. If we are unable to obtain additional financing in the near term, we may be required to curtail operations in order to offset the lack of available funding, which could have a material adverse impact on us, and consequently, there is a substantial doubt about us ability to continue as a going concern. 11 Table of Contents Our consolidated financial statements do not reflect adjustments that would be necessary if the going concern basis was not appropriate. If the going concern basis was not appropriate for these consolidated financial statements, then significant adjustments would be necessary in the carrying value of assets and liabilities, the reported revenues and expenses, and the balance sheet classifications used. The appropriateness of the going concern basis is dependent upon, among other things, future profitable operations, the ability to negotiate new sources of financing, if necessary, and the ability to generate sufficient cash from operations and financing arrangements to meet its obligations. The results of certain payment processing portfolios which were sold in 2009, as well as the “card-not-present” and the “Canadian card-present” payment processing businesses sold in 2008, are presented separately under discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss for the current and prior periods. The balance sheet also presents the assets and liabilities related to the discontinued operations separately for current and prior years. The effect of the take-over transaction described in note 27 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements — Subsequent events, on its financial position and future cash flows of ours, if any, have not been considered in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. If the current global economic conditions continue to deteriorate and the current financial crisis deepens, WowWee’s business and our financial results may continue to be adversely affected. The recent global economic deterioration and financial crisis adversely affected WowWee’s business and our financial results in 2008 and 2009. WowWee designs, manufactures and markets a variety of consumer robotic, toy and entertainment products worldwide. WowWee’s sales of these products are affected by the level of discretionary consumer spending, which has deteriorated sharply in the United States and in many countries around the world in which WowWee’s products are sold. Consumers’ discretionary purchases of consumer robotic, toy and entertainment products may be negatively affected by job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit, significantly falling home prices, lower consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors that curtail consumer spending behavior. If WowWee’s retail customers encounter liquidity problems due to weak retail sales or their inability to raise sufficient capital due to credit constraints, WowWee may not be able to collect accounts receivable from the affected customers. Finally, many of the ultimate effects and consequences of the current global economic crisis are not yet known. Any one or all of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on WowWee’s liquidity and capital resources, including increasing our cost of capital or our ability to raise additional capital if needed, or otherwise negatively affect WowWee’s business and our financial results. We may be subject to litigation from the Internet gambling merchants that used our former payments processing business for their U.S. Internet gambling business activities seeking to force us to pay to them related processing reserve account balances. Pursuant to the non-prosecution agreement that we entered into with the Office of the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, on October 30, 2009, we have recognized that the services provided by certain Internet gambling merchants of our former payments processing business violated certain United States laws. On the basis of advice received by management that a court would not enforce our obligation to pay to these merchants their respective processing reserve account balances (an aggregate amount of $9.6 million) due to the illegality of their related Internet gambling activities, we have, for accounting purposes, derecognized (reversed) our liability to pay such account balances and we will refuse the demand of any such Internet gambling merchant for the payment of its reserve account balance. Certain of these merchants may nevertheless initiate legal proceedings against us in an attempt to enforce payment of their respective account balances, which we would be forced to defend. We could incur significant costs in the defense or settlement of any such legal proceedings and there can be no assurance that a court would not enforce the payment of any particular account balance(s). 12 Table of Contents Liquidity problems or bankruptcy of WowWee’s key customers could have a material adverse effect on WowWee’s business, our financial condition and our results of operations. Many of WowWee’s key customers are mass-market retailers. In the past, the mass-market retail channel in the United States has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors, causing some large retailers to experience liquidity problems. Certain of WowWee’s customers filed for bankruptcy in 2008 and the recent global economic crisis has adversely affected the financial condition of most retailers. WowWee’s sales to customers are typically made on credit without collateral. There is a risk that customers will not pay, or that payment might be delayed because of bankruptcy, contraction of credit availability to such customers or other factors beyond WowWee’s control, which could increase WowWee’s exposure to losses from bad debts. In addition, if these or other customers were to cease doing business as a result of bankruptcy or significantly reduce the number of stores operated, it could have a material adverse effect on WowWee’s business, our financial condition, and our results of operations. If the bid price for our common stock fall below $1.00 per share, we may not be able to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, which would subject the trading of our common share to the SEC’s penny stock rules and would decrease the liquidity of our common shares. Our common shares are currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market (“Nasdaq”), which has quantitative maintenance criteria that provide that a stock may be delisted if the closing bid price per share of such stock falls below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. In accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, we would have a period of 180 calendar days to regain compliance after the receipt of a Nasdaq staff deficiency letter by maintaining a closing bid price of $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance, we may appeal Nasdaq’s delisting determination to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. If we fail to maintain continued listing, our common shares may be traded over-the-counter on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the “pink sheets.” These alternative markets, however, are generally considered to be less efficient than, and not as broad as, Nasdaq. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than securities traded on the Nasdaq markets, which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common shares, and impair our ability to raise additional capital. In addition, our common shares may become subject to penny stock rules. The SEC generally defines “penny stock” as an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. We are not currently subject to the penny stock rules because our common shares qualify for an exception to the SEC’s penny stock rules for companies that have an equity security that is quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market. However, if our common shares were delisted, our common shares would become subject to the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common shares. If our common shares were considered penny stock, the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common shares and the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares in the secondary market would be limited and, as a result, the market liquidity for our common shares would be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that trading in our common shares will not be subject to these or other regulations in the future The obligations of United Bank Card Inc. under the Purchase and Sale Option Agreement among Optimal Payments Corp., United Bank Card, Inc. and Jared Isaacman, dated as of February 2, 2009, are unsecured and there is a risk that we will not receive payment in full of the purchase price payable thereunder. On February 2, 2009, Optimal Payments Corp. entered into a Purchase and Sale Option Agreement with United Bank Card, Inc. and its principal, Jared Isaacman. Under the terms of the agreement, United Bank Card has the right to cause Optimal Payments Corp. to sell, and Optimal Payments Corp. has the right to require United Bank Card to purchase, Optimal Payments Corp.’s right to residual payments and other ancillary revenues from the processing of credit card-present transactions for a portfolio of merchant accounts. The purchase price to be paid by United Bank Card under the agreement is $11 million. The purchase price will be subject to adjustment monthly by: (i) subtracting revenues that have been retained by Optimal Payments Corp. after deducting payment to United Bank Card of fees relating to the servicing of the merchant accounts by United Bank Card and (ii) adding a notional rate of 12% per annum to the resulting amount. United Bank Card will be entitled to exercise its purchase right at any time up to December 31, 2014 and Optimal Payments Corp. will be entitled to exercise its sale right at any time on or following the earlier of: (i) February 2, 2011 and (ii) the sale of United Bank Card. United Bank Card’s obligations under the agreement are being guaranteed by Jared Isaacman, however, neither United Bank Card’s obligations nor Jared Isaacman’s guarantee are secured. If United Bank Card and Jared Isaacman were to default under their obligations, we might not be in a position to collect the purchase price (as reduced pursuant to the adjustments described above) and we might not find another buyer for the portfolio of residual payments and ancillary revenues. 13 Table of Contents Our business depends upon the services of key personnel. Our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and to grow our business depends largely upon the services of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business and overall results of operations. WowWee’s future success depends largely on the continued contribution of its key executives, designers and technical personnel. The loss of services of any of these key personnel could harm WowWee. Recruiting skilled designers and technical personnel is highly competitive. If WowWee fails to retain any of these key personnel, and/or fails to hire, train and integrate replacement personnel, it might not be able to maintain and expand its business, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to successfully integrate businesses we acquire into our operations. Our future growth strategy may include acquiring other businesses. For example, in November 2007 we acquired WowWee. However, we may not be able to identify and acquire suitable target businesses or, to the extent required, obtain financing for such acquisitions on satisfactory terms or at all. Integrating acquired businesses into our operations may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: • the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating an acquisition, • the diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations, • the difficulty in integrating widely dispersed operations with distinct corporate cultures, • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business, • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technologies successfully, • the potential impairment of relationships with employees, customers and strategic partners, and • the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. Customer satisfaction or performance problems at an acquired business could adversely affect the reputation of our entire business. Future acquisitions may be financed through the issuance of common shares, which may dilute the ownership of our shareholders, or through the incurrence of indebtedness. Acquisitions may also result in significant charges to earnings. Furthermore, competition for acquisition candidates could escalate, thereby increasing the costs of making acquisitions or making suitable acquisitions more difficult to find. We are subject to the risk that a taxation authority could challenge certain filing positions we have taken, and that a successful challenge could require us to pay significant additional taxes. Although we believe that all filing positions we take in our tax returns are reasonable and appropriate, there is no assurance that a taxation authority will not challenge those positions. Such challenges could include disputing positions taken in connection with the transfer of our online gaming processing business to FireOne Group plc and its affiliates in 2005, and the subsequent public offering of a portion of the FireOne Group plc ordinary shares. A challenge to certain filing positions we have taken, if successful, could result in us being required to pay additional taxes (including penalties and interest) and the amount of such additional taxes could be material to us. We are subject to exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar and Euros. The majority of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars and Euros. A significant portion of our expenses are incurred in both Canadian dollars and Euros. A fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar or the Euro may result in variations in our revenues, expenses and earnings. We have not implemented a currency hedging program. Our operating strategy for WowWee might not succeed and the anticipated benefits to us from our acquisition of WowWee might not be realized. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of the WowWee business will depend, in part, on the successful implementation of specific strategies designed to enhance the growth and financial performance of the WowWee business. These include: • Expanding sales and distribution through a broadening of WowWee’s sales channels, particularly outside North America in emerging markets; 14 Table of Contents • Expanding product design, development and production capabilities to produce an increased number of products at varying price points; • Broadening development initiatives into products that combine computer connectivity, utility and entertainment; and • Embarking on branded entertainment initiatives, licensing, publishing and merchandising; and We have encountered challenges in implementing these strategies thus far. If we fail to succeed in implementing these and other strategies that we might develop, WowWee could fail to grow, we may not realize the benefits anticipated from the acquisition of the WowWee business, and our financial performance and results of operations could continue to be significantly adversely affected. If WowWee does not satisfy consumer preferences our results of operations may be adversely affected. WowWee competes with a wide range of manufacturers, marketers and sellers of consumer electronics and play products, many of which are larger than us and have greater financial resources than we do. Consumer preferences change. If its competitors’ products achieve greater market acceptance than WowWee’s products, WowWee’s products are unable to satisfy consumer preferences, or WowWee fails to respond to changes in consumer preferences with products that achieve and sustain market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, demand for WowWee’s products could decrease and our results of operations could be adversely affected. WowWee’s business is seasonal and its annual operating results depend, in large part, upon the relatively brief holiday season in the fourth quarter of the year. Retail sales of WowWee’s products are susceptible to seasonal variations, with a majority of sales occurring between September and December. As a result, WowWee’s operating results depend, in large part, upon sales made during this period. If WowWee’s sales, operating earnings or cash flows from operating activities during the September to December period in any fiscal year are low, we may not be able to compensate sufficiently for the generally lower sales, operating earnings, or cash flows from operating activities during the first eight months of the fiscal year. Tighter inventory management by retailers resulting in shorter lead times for production and possible shipping disruptions during peak demand times may adversely affect WowWee’s ability to deliver its products in time to meet retailer demands. As retailers attempt to manage their inventories better by requiring suppliers to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell products to consumers, suppliers such as WowWee have experienced shortened lead times for production. Disruptions in shipping, for any reason, from China during peak demand times may affect the ability of WowWee to deliver its products in time to meet retailer demand. WowWee’s sales are concentrated among a relatively small number of major retailer customers, which exposes WowWee to any financial difficulties or changes in purchasing preferences or policies of these customers. A small number of major retail customers account for a large proportion of WowWee’s sales. WowWee’s customers make purchases by one-time purchase orders, as opposed to making long-term purchase commitments. These customers could reduce their overall purchases of WowWee’s products for any reason, including due to financial difficulties, or could reduce the shelf space allotted for such products. Any such change by a major customer of WowWee could significantly harm WowWee’s business and our results of operations. Consolidation among WowWee’s major customers could compound the effect upon us of any financial difficulties suffered by such customers or any changes in the purchasing preferences or policies of such customers. Increased consolidation among its customers could negatively impact the ability of WowWee to negotiate higher sales prices for its products and could result in lower gross profit margins. All of WowWee’s products are manufactured in China and we are subject to the risk that political developments, including currency revaluation and trade relations between China and the markets in which WowWee’s products are sold, could increase the costs of producing and delay or prevent shipping such products. All of WowWee’s products are manufactured by third parties in the People’s Republic of China. Social and economic conditions in China affecting the movement of products from China to the markets in which WowWee’s products are sold, particularly North America, and the labor and other costs of doing business in China could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. Factors that could negatively affect WowWee include a potential revaluation of the Chinese yuan, which may increase the cost of producing products in China, increased 15 Table of Contents labor costs and labor disputes that could result in difficulties in transporting products manufactured in China to the ports on the western coast of North America. Also, a negative change in China’s trade status with the United States or the European Union, including the imposition of trade sanctions, could significantly increase the cost of products imported from China. Any increase in the cost of producing and the cost of, or disruptions in, shipping WowWee’s products in and from China could significantly adversely affect our results of operations. A reduction or interruption in the supply of raw materials, parts and components or a significant increase in the price of supplies used to produce WowWee’s products could negatively affect WowWee’s gross profit margins. WowWee may from time to time encounter shortages of materials, parts and components from its suppliers or a price increase in such materials, parts and components resulting from their shortage. Price increases for components such as resin used in plastics, rising fuel and transportation costs and raw material prices, may significantly increase WowWee’s operating costs, reduce WowWee’s gross profit margins and our results of operations. Due to market conditions, timing of pricing decisions, competition and other factors, there can be no assurance that WowWee will be able to offset any of such increased costs by adjusting the prices of its products because increases in the prices of WowWee’s products could result in lower sales. As a developer and supplier of consumer products, WowWee is subject to various government regulations, violation of which could subject us to sanctions. As a developer and supplier of consumer products, WowWee operates in a highly regulated environment in the United States and international markets. Regulations that apply to its products and their importation include regulation of advertising directed toward children and product safety. There can be no assurance that WowWee or its products will be in compliance in the future with such regulations. In addition, changes in laws or regulations may lead to increased compliance-related costs in WowWee’s business. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in monetary liabilities and other sanctions which could have a negative impact on WowWee, our financial condition and our results of operations. WowWee could also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall, the costs of which could be significant. In addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of WowWee’s products. WowWee could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm WowWee. Products that have been or may be developed by WowWee may expose us to potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of such products. There can be no assurance that a claim will not be brought against us in the future. While we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain such coverage or such coverage may not be adequate to cover all potential claims. Moreover, even if we maintain sufficient insurance coverage, any successful claim could significantly harm WowWee’s reputation among consumers, which could result in decrease sales, harming our financial condition and our results of operations. Failure by WowWee to protect its proprietary intellectual property and information could have a material adverse effect on WowWee, our financial condition and results of operations. The value of WowWee depends to a large degree on its ability to protect its intellectual property and information, including its trademarks, trade names, copyrights and trade secrets. WowWee’s business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting its products or infringing on its intellectual property rights. Any failure by WowWee to protect its proprietary intellectual property and information or a successful challenge by a third party that WowWee has infringed its intellectual property rights, could have a material adverse effect on WowWee, our financial condition and our results of operations. Optimal Payments is at risk of loss due to fraud, disputes and merchant insolvency. Optimal Payments faces risks of loss due to fraud and disputes between consumers and merchants, including the unauthorized use of credit card and bank account information and identity theft, merchant fraud, disputes over the quality of goods and services, breaches of system security, employee fraud and use of its system for illegal or improper purposes. When a consumer pays a merchant for goods or services using a credit card and the cardholder disputes the charge, the amount of the disputed item gets charged back to Optimal Payments and the relevant credit card association may levy fees against Optimal Payments. Chargebacks can arise from the unauthorized use of a cardholder’s card number or from a cardholder’s claim that a merchant failed to perform a transaction. In addition, if Optimal Payments’ chargeback or dispute rate becomes excessive, credit card associations may require it to pay fines and have done so in the past. There is a risk that Optimal Payments may be required to pay fines in the future and the amount of such fines may be material. While Optimal Payments attempts to recover 16 Table of Contents from the merchant the amount charged back and the amount of any fines imposed upon it by credit card associations, Optimal Payments may not always be successful in doing so for various reasons, such as merchant insolvency. Optimal Payments may not be able to safeguard against security and privacy breaches in its electronic transactions. A significant element of electronic commerce and communication is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Although Optimal Payments strives to use only proven applications for premium data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, use of these applications may not be sufficient to address changing market conditions or developments in technology or the security and privacy concerns of Optimal Payments’ existing and potential customers. Optimal Payments may not be able to prevent security or privacy breaches. A security or privacy breach could: • expose Optimal Payments to liability and to potentially costly litigation; • cause Optimal Payments to incur expenses relating to the remediation of these breaches; and • cause Optimal Payments’ customers to lose confidence in its services, harm its reputation, and deter customers from using Optimal Payments’ services. Although Optimal Payments requires that its agreements with service providers who have access to merchant and consumer data include confidentiality obligations that restrict these parties from using or disclosing any consumer or merchant data except as necessary to perform their services under the applicable agreements, there can be no assurance that these contractual measures will prevent the unauthorized disclosure of merchant or consumer data. Individuals may attempt to circumvent the measures that Optimal Payments takes to protect customer transaction data. Security breaches could result in the disclosure of proprietary information, such as bank account or credit card information. If Optimal Payments is unable to protect the security and privacy of its electronic transactions and data, it could be exposed to risk of loss, litigation and possible liability, and its business volume, revenues and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Optimal Payments’ payments systems might be used for illegal or improper purposes. Despite its measures to detect and prevent identity theft, unauthorized use of credit cards, and similar misconduct, and to monitor and comply with laws and regulations restricting or prohibiting the processing of certain types of transactions for its merchant customers, Optimal Payments’ payments systems are susceptible to illegal or improper uses by third parties. These uses may include illegal online gaming, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, software and other intellectual property piracy, money laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products and online securities fraud. Illegal or improper use of payments systems may lead to increased government regulation of Optimal Payments or other legal consequences which may have an adverse impact on its revenues and results of operations. In addition, laws or regulations that restrict or prohibit the business activities of Optimal Payments’ merchant customers may prevent Optimal Payments from providing, or may make it impracticable for it to continue to provide, its payments systems to such merchants and their customers, which would adversely affect its revenues and results of operations. Optimal Payments must comply with credit card association rules and practices, which could impose additional costs and burdens on its payments business. Optimal Payments must comply with the operating rules of the various credit card associations with which it is registered. The associations could adopt operating rules with which it may be difficult or impossible for Optimal Payments to comply. In addition, cases of fraud or disputes between consumers and merchants can result in chargebacks. If Optimal Payments’ chargebacks or disputes become excessive, its processing suppliers could fine it or terminate its ability to accept credit cards for payments. The termination of Optimal Payments’ relationships with credit card associations, or acquiring banks, would limit its ability to provide transaction processing services. 17 Table of Contents The failure of Optimal Payments’ systems, the systems of third parties or the Internet could negatively impact its business and harm its reputation for reliability. Computer viruses, disgruntled or rogue employees, electronic break-ins, power losses, telecommunications failures, security breaches, natural disasters and similar events could damage or disrupt the function of Optimal Payments’ systems and those of third parties upon whom it relies, such as bank processing and credit card systems, thereby adversely affecting Optimal Payments’ business and reputation. Optimal Payments’ insurance policies may not adequately compensate it for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in these systems. If Optimal Payments’ relationships with its banking partner deteriorates, its ability to process transactions could be impaired or halted. Optimal Payments relies on strategic partnerships and suppliers to help supply, promote and distribute its services. Optimal Payments particularly depends upon its strategic banking relationship. The credit card association members and financial institutions that process electronic transactions have adopted guidelines that apply to online transactions. While we believe that Optimal Payments’ operations comply with these guidelines, credit card association members and financial institutions could nonetheless decide in the future to refuse to process transactions for Optimal Payments. Such a decision could be implemented with little or no advance notice to Optimal Payments. If such a situation occurred and Optimal Payments were not able to conclude alternative arrangements with other credit card association members or financial institutions, its ability to carry out payment transactions could be impaired or even halted. Optimal Payments operates in a competitive market for its services. Potential competitors in Optimal Payments’ market include credit card association members, financial institutions, payment processors and other similar entities, many of which may have greater financial resources than Optimal Payment does, more firmly entrenched market positions or greater brand recognition. Optimal Payments may not be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new services or offer new services that appeal to its customers as fast as its competitors. If Optimal Payments fails to anticipate or respond effectively to customer requirements or experiences significant delays in product developments or roll-outs, it may lose its market share and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Optimal Payments relies upon non-exclusive arrangements with independent sales agents to acquire and retain its customers. Optimal Payments relies solely upon independent sales agents to acquire and retain its customers. Its arrangements with these independent sales agents are non-exclusive. As a result, Optimal Payments’ sales agents may enter into arrangements with Optimal Payments’ competitors that provide preferential treatment to those competitors or they may terminate their arrangements with Optimal Payments. If Optimal Payments fails to maintain strong relationships with its independent sales agents or fails to provide its independent sales agents with sufficient incentives to motivate their sales efforts, Optimal Payments’ customer base may not expand and could decrease. Optimal Payments’ business is subject to fluctuations in general business conditions. The current downturn in general economic conditions has caused some of Optimal Payments’ merchant customers to experience difficulty in supporting their current operations and implementing their business plans. If these merchants make fewer sales of their products and services, Optimal Payments will have fewer transactions to process, resulting in lower revenues. In addition, in a recessionary environment, the merchants Optimal Payments serves become subject to a higher risk of insolvency, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Optimal Payments bears the credit risk for chargebacks related to billing disputes between credit card holders and merchants. If a merchant seeks protective relief under bankruptcy laws or is otherwise unable or unwilling to reimburse Optimal Payments for chargebacks borne by Optimal Payments, Optimal Payments may be liable for the full transaction amount of a chargeback. 18 Table of Contents The legal status of online gaming is uncertain in some of the jurisdictions in which Optimal Payments has provided settlement processing services for online gaming activities. Future enforcement proceedings may subject us to substantial penalties. Reports of enforcement proceedings that are unfavorable to Optimal Payments or to its customers or suppliers may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. In many jurisdictions there are few, if any, laws or regulations that deal directly with payment processing for online gaming transactions. The legal status of online gaming itself is uncertain in many of the jurisdictions in which Optimal Payments has operated. While some jurisdictions have taken the position that online gaming is legal and have adopted or are in the process of reviewing legislation to regulate online gaming, other jurisdictions have taken the opposite view and enacted legislation to attempt to restrict or prohibit online gaming. For example, the United States Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 prohibits any person engaged in the business of betting or wagering from knowingly accepting payments related to unlawful bets or wagers transmitted over the Internet, which resulted in our then majority owned subsidiary, FireOne Group plc, ceasing to process settlement transactions originating from United States customers that may be viewed as related to online gaming. We may be exposed to adverse consequences as a result of future enforcement proceedings, governmental investigations or lawsuits initiated against Optimal Payments in jurisdictions where online gaming is restricted or prohibited. Any adverse findings, rulings or judgments rendered against Optimal Payments could involve substantial penalties, fines, injunctions or other sanctions being invoked against it and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Any future enforcement or legal proceedings threatened or commenced against Optimal Payments relating to online gaming, whether or not ultimately successful, could involve substantial litigation expense and the diversion of the attention of key executives. The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted. From time to time, reports about regulatory initiatives, or enforcement proceedings that are or would be unfavorable to us, or to Optimal Payments’ customers or suppliers, have had a swift and negative impact on the trading price of our common shares, and our common shares may again experience trading price volatility in the future due to such reports. Optimal Payments’ status under certain financial services regulations is unclear. Optimal Payments operates in an industry subject to government regulation. Optimal Payments currently is subject to money laundering regulations and may in the past have been subject to money transmitter or electronic money regulations in various jurisdictions. If Optimal Payments is found to have been in violation of any such regulations, it could be exposed to financial liability, including substantial fines which could be imposed on a per transaction basis, and disgorgement of our profits. We have a material amount of intangible assets which, if they become impaired, would result in a reduction in our net income. Current accounting standards require that goodwill and intangible assets be periodically evaluated for impairment. Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition accounted for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value of the identifiable net assets we acquire. Any further declines in our assessment of future cash flows from the WowWee segment could result in a further write-down of our intangible assets and a reduction in our net income. Due largely to a general deterioration of the economic environment, sales, operating profits and cash flows in the consumer robotic, toy and entertainment products business were lower in 2009. We recalculated a fair value of intangibles and considered an impairment charge was required in the amount of $12.4 million during the year. During the year, we tested for impairment in the customer relations and ISO/ISA intangible assets related to certain merchant portfolios that are part of the payment processing business, as we determined that the estimated attrition rate should be increased based on new information. As a result of this analysis, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $4.0 million based on an estimated fair value established using a discounted cash flow methodology. We may be subject to additional litigation stemming from our operation of the U-scan self-checkout business. In 2004, we settled an action alleging that the U-Scan self-checkout systems that we marketed infringed upon the claimant’s patent. In 1999, 2001 and 2003, a second party sent demand letters to us alleging a different patent infringement. We may in the future be subject to other litigation relating to our prior involvement in the self-checkout business. Defending against such litigation may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our current businesses, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have nothing to report under this item. 