Risk Factors.” If our products fail to protect against attacks and our customers experience security breaches, our reputation and business could be harmed Hackers and other malevolent actors are increasingly sophisticated, often affiliated with organized crime and operate large scale and complex attacks. In addition, their techniques change frequently and generally are not 7 Table of Contents recognized until launched against a target. If we fail to identify and respond to new and increasingly complex methods of attack and to update our products to detect or prevent such threats in time to protect our customers’ high-value business data, our business and reputation will suffer. In addition, an actual or perceived security breach or theft of the sensitive data of one of our customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products, could adversely affect the market’s perception of our security products. Despite our best efforts, there is no guarantee that our products will be free of flaws or vulnerabilities, and even if we discover these weaknesses we may not be able to correct them promptly, if at all. Our customers may also misuse our products, which could result in a breach or theft of business data. Product defects may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products and technology Our products are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. They may contain undetected hardware or software errors or defects, especially when new or acquired products are introduced or when new versions are released. In particular, the personal computer hardware environment is characterized by a wide variety of non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. We may need to divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our research and development efforts to address instances of errors or defects. In addition, we may in the future incur costs associated with warranty claims. Our products are used to deploy and manage Internet security and protect information, which may be critical to organizations. As a result, the sale and support of our products entails the risk of product liability and related claims. We do not know whether, in the future, we will be subject to liability claims or litigation for damages related to product errors, or will experience delays as a result of these errors. Our sales agreements and product licenses typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability or related claims. In selling our products, we rely primarily on “shrink wrap” licenses that are not signed by the end user, and for this and other reasons, these licenses may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. As a result, the limitation of liability provisions contained in these licenses may not be effective. Although we maintain product liability insurance for most of our products, the coverage limits of these policies may not provide sufficient protection against an asserted claim. If litigation were to arise, it could, regardless of its outcome, result in substantial expense to us, significantly divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and disrupt or otherwise severely impact our relationships with current and potential customers. In addition, if any of our products fail to meet specifications or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in revenues, a loss of existing customers, and difficulty attracting new customers. We are subject to risks relating to acquisitions We have made acquisitions in the past and we may make additional acquisitions in the future. The pursuit of acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating, and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. Competition within our industry for acquisitions of businesses, technologies, assets and product lines has been, and may in the future continue to be, intense. As such, even if we are able to identify an acquisition that we would like to consummate, we may not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms or because the target is acquired by another company. Furthermore, in the event that we are able to identify and consummate any future acquisitions, we could: • issue equity securities which would dilute current shareholders’ percentage ownership; • incur substantial debt; • assume contingent liabilities; or • expend significant cash. 8 Table of Contents These financing activities or expenditures could harm our business, operating results and financial condition or the price of our ordinary shares. Alternatively, due to difficulties in the capital and credit markets, we may be unable to secure capital on acceptable terms, or at all, to complete acquisitions. In addition, if we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations, and technologies successfully or effectively manage the combined business following the completion of the acquisition. We may also not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; • incurrence of acquisition-related costs; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • harm to our existing business relationships with manufacturers, distributors and customers as a result of the acquisition; • the potential loss of key employees; • use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; • use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition; or • unrealistic goals or projections for the acquisition. Moreover, even if we do obtain benefits from acquisitions in the form of increased sales and earnings, there may be a delay between the time when the expenses associated with an acquisition are incurred and the time when we recognize such benefits. We are dependent on a small number of distributors We derive our sales primarily through indirect channels. During 2010, 2011 and 2012, we derived approximately 59%, 58% and 55%, respectively, of our sales from our ten largest distributors. In each of 2010 and 2011, two distributors accounted for approximately 18% and 17% of our sales. In 2012, these two distributors each accounted for approximately 16% of our sales. We expect that a small number of distributors will continue to generate a significant portion of our sales. Furthermore, there has been an industry trend toward consolidation among distributors, and we expect this trend to continue in the near future which could further increase our reliance on a small number of distributors for a significant portion of our sales. If these distributors reduce the amount of their purchases from us for any reason, including because they choose to focus their efforts on the sales of the products of our competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to establish and maintain successful relationships with our distributors. In addition, we rely on these entities to provide many of the training and support services for our products and equipment. Accordingly, our success depends in large part on the effective performance of these distributors. Recruiting and retaining qualified distributors and training them in our technology and products requires significant time and resources. Further, we have no minimum purchase commitments with any of our distributors, and our contracts with these distributors do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to existing and potential distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. Our distributors may choose not to offer our products exclusively or at all. Our failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with distributors would likely materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents We purchase several key components and finished products from sole or limited sources, and we are increasingly dependent on contract manufacturers for our hardware products. Many components, subassemblies and modules necessary for the manufacture or integration of our hardware products are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on sole or limited suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our reliance on subcontractors involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, subassemblies or modules and limited control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of components, subassemblies or modules. Although we have been successful in the past, replacing suppliers may be difficult and it is possible it could result in an inability or delay in producing designated hardware products. Substantial delays could have a material adverse impact on our business. Managing our supplier and contractor relationships is particularly difficult during time periods in which we introduce new products and during time periods in which demand for our products is increasing, especially if demand increases more quickly than we expect. We are dependent on a limited number of product families Currently, we derive the majority of our revenues from sales of integrated appliances and Internet security products, as well as related revenues from software updates, maintenance and subscriptions. We expect that this concentration of revenues from a small number of product families will continue for the foreseeable future. Endpoint security products and associated software updates, maintenance and subscriptions represent an additional revenue source. Our future growth depends heavily on our ability to effectively develop and sell new and acquired products as well as add new features to existing products. For more details, see “Item 4 – Information on Check Point” and “Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” We incorporate third party technology in our products, which may make us dependent on the providers of these technologies and expose us to potential intellectual property claims Our products contain certain technology that we license from other companies. Third party developers or owners of technologies may not be willing to enter into, or renew, license agreements with us regarding technologies that we may wish to incorporate in our products, either on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain licenses to these technologies, we may be at a disadvantage compared with our competitors who are able to license these technologies. In addition, when we do obtain licenses to third party technologies that we did not develop, we may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether the technology infringes the intellectual property rights of others. Our suppliers and licensors may not be required or may not be able to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. Any failure to obtain licenses to intellectual property or any exposure to liability as a result of incorporating third party technology into our products could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financing condition. We incorporate open source technology in our products which may expose us to liability and have a material impact on our product development and sales Some of our products utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us under varying license structures, including the General Public License. If we have improperly used, or in the future improperly use software that is subject to such licenses with our products, in such a way that our software becomes subject to the General Public License, we may be required to disclose our own source code to the public. This could enable our competitors to eliminate any technological advantage that our products may have over theirs. Any such requirement to disclose our source code or other confidential information related to our products could materially and adversely affect our competitive position and impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents We are the defendants in various lawsuits and are also subject to certain tax disputes and governmental proceedings, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition We operate our business in various countries and accordingly attempt to utilize an efficient operating model to structure our tax payments based on the laws in the countries in which we operate. This can cause disputes between us and various tax authorities in different parts of the world. In particular, following audits of the Company’s 2002 through 2007 corporate tax returns, the Israeli Tax Authority (the “ITA”) issued orders challenging the Company’s positions on several issues, including matters such as the tax consequences of investment outside of Israel of funds earned by it, deductibility of expenses attributed to employee stock options, percentage of foreign ownership of its shares which might influence the tax benefits derived from its approved enterprises, taxation of interest earned outside of Israel by a wholly-owned Singapore subsidiary and deductibility of research and development expenses. A significant amount in dispute relates to the treatment of financial income on cash that is held and managed by the Company’s wholly-owned Singapore subsidiary, which the ITA is seeking to tax in Israel. In an additional challenge to this amount, the ITA reclassified the transfer of funds from Check Point to its subsidiary in Singapore as a dividend for purposes of the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, which would result in tax on the funds transferred. The ITA orders also contest its positions on various other issues. The ITA therefore demanded the payment of additional taxes in the aggregate amount of NIS 2,819 million (approximately $755 million) with respect to these six tax years (this amount includes interest through December 31, 2012). The Company has appealed the orders relating to all six years with the Tel Aviv District Court, and these appeals are pending. There can be no assurance that the court will accept the Company’s positions on these matters or others and, in such an event, the Company may record additional tax expenses if these matters are settled for amounts in excess of its current provisions. In addition, the ITA has issued tax assessments for the 2008 tax year in which it demanded the payment of additional taxes in the aggregate amount of NIS 254 million (approximately $68 million) with respect to this year, including interest through December 31, 2012. The Company expects to file objections to these assessments. There can be no assurance that the ITA will accept the Company’s positions on matters raised and, if it does not, an order for the 2008 tax year will be issued. We are also currently named as a defendant in two patent related lawsuits and have filed for a declaratory judgment in another patent related case. All of the plaintiffs or adversaries are non-practicing entities. They are businesses established to hold the patents and they are seeking monetary damages by alleging that a product feature infringes a patent. We currently intend to vigorously defend these claims. However, as with most litigation, the outcome is difficult to determine. At this time, we do not expect the ultimate resolution of these litigation matters to be material to our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, we are the defendant in various other lawsuits, including employment-related litigation claims, lease termination claims and other legal proceedings in the normal course of our business. Litigation and governmental proceedings can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and can require extensive management attention and resources, regardless of their merit. We will continue to vigorously assert and protect their interests in these lawsuits. While we currently intend to defend the aforementioned matters vigorously, we cannot predict the results of complex legal proceedings, and an unfavorable resolution of a lawsuit or proceeding could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See also “Item 8 – Financial Information” under the caption “Legal Proceedings.” Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Companies such as ours in the technology industry are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation as a result of the volatility of their stock prices. We have been named as a defendant in this type of litigation in the past. Any litigation of this sort could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights We seek to protect our proprietary technology by relying on a combination of statutory as well as common law copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions as indicated below in the section entitled “Proprietary Rights” in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point.” We have certain patents in the United States and in several other countries, as well as pending patent applications. We cannot assure you that pending patent applications will be issued, either at all or within the scope of the patent claims that we have submitted. In addition, someone else may challenge our patents and these patents may be found invalid. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar to or better than ours, or may work around any patents issued to us. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, others may copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, Israel or Sweden. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate and our competitors may independently develop technology that is similar to our technology. If we are unable to secure, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights, such failure could harm our brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If a third-party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, which could harm our business There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. As noted above, we are currently named as a defendant in two patent related lawsuits and have filed for a declaratory judgment in another patent related case. In addition, third-parties have in the past sent us correspondence regarding their intellectual property and in the future we may receive claims that our products infringe or violate their intellectual property rights. Furthermore, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology or products. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or royalty payments, prevent us from selling our products, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. In addition, we may decide to pay substantial settlement costs and/or licensing fees in connection with any claim or litigation, whether or not successfully asserted against us. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. As such, third-party claims with respect to intellectual property may increase our cost of goods sold or reduce the sales of our products, and may have a material and adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with international operations; these risks could increase our costs, reduce future growth opportunities and affect our results of operations We sell our products worldwide, and we generate a significant portion of our revenue outside the United States. We intend to continue to expand our international operations, which will require significant management attention and financial resources. In order to continue to expand worldwide, we will need to establish additional operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional channel partners, internationally. To the extent that we are unable to do so effectively, our growth is likely to be limited and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our international revenues and operations subject us to many potential risks inherent in international business activities, including, but not limited to: • technology import and export license requirements; • costs of localizing our products for foreign countries, and the lack of acceptance of localized products in foreign countries; 12 Table of Contents • trade restrictions; • imposition of or increases in tariffs or other payments on our revenues in these markets; • changes in regulatory requirements; • greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property; • difficulties in managing our overseas subsidiaries and our international operations; • declines in general economic conditions; • political instability and civil unrest which could discourage investment and complicate our dealings with governments; • difficulties in complying with a variety of foreign laws and legal standards; • expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities; • difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; • differing labor standards; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including taxation of a portion of our revenues at higher rates than the tax rate that applies to us in Israel; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the impact of such fluctuations on our results of operations and financial position; and • the introduction of exchange controls and other restrictions by foreign governments. These difficulties could cause our revenues to decline, increase our costs or both. This is also specifically tied to currency exchange rates which has an impact on our financial statements based on currency rate fluctuations. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, new SEC regulations, new amendments to the Israeli Companies Law and NASDAQ Global Select Market rules are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. For example, many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act are currently in the process of being implemented through regulatory action. The implementation of these laws and their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. In particular, continuing compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources and the report of an independent registered public accounting firm on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. In connection with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for fiscal 2012, our management assessed our internal control over financial reporting, and determined that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012, and our independent auditors have expressed an unqualified opinion over the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. However, we will undertake management assessments of our internal control over financial reporting in connection with each 13 Table of Contents annual report, and any deficiencies uncovered by these assessments or any inability of our auditors to issue an unqualified report could harm our reputation and the price of our ordinary shares. Also, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and foundries exposes us to the risk that certain minerals and metals that originated in the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country, known as “conflict minerals,” are contained within our products. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC adopted new disclosure requirements for public companies using conflict minerals in their products. Under these rules, we are required to perform due diligence, disclose and report our efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. As a result of these new rules, we expect to incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the conflict minerals that may be used in our products. Moreover, the implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products to the extent that there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” metals that can be used in our products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such metals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. We may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, such customers may choose to not purchase our products, which could impact our sales and the value of portions of our inventory. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws or regulations, our business and reputation may be harmed. A small number of shareholders own a substantial portion of our ordinary shares, and they may make decisions with which you or others may disagree As of January 31, 2013, our directors and executive officers owned approximately 23.3% of the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares, or 26.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares if the percentage includes options currently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days of January 31, 2013. The interests of these shareholders may differ from your interests and present a conflict. If these shareholders act together, they could exercise significant influence over our operations and business strategy. For example, although these shareholders hold considerably less than a majority of our outstanding ordinary shares, they may have sufficient voting power to influence matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election and removal of directors and the approval or rejection of mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, or deprive a shareholder of a possible premium for its ordinary shares as part of a sale of our company. We may be required to indemnify our directors and officers in certain circumstances We have entered into agreements with each of our directors and senior officers to insure, indemnify and exculpate them against some types of claims, subject to dollar limits and other limitations. Subject to Israeli law, these agreements provide that we will indemnify each of these directors and senior officers for any of the following liabilities or expenses that they may incur due to an act performed or failure to act in their capacity as our director or senior officer: • Monetary liability imposed on the director or senior officer in favor of a third party in a judgment, including a settlement or an arbitral award confirmed by a court. • Reasonable legal costs, including attorneys’ fees, expended by a director or senior officer as a result of an investigation or proceeding instituted against the director or senior officer by a competent authority; provided, however, that such investigation or proceeding concludes without the filing of an indictment against the director or senior officer and either: • No financial liability was imposed on the director or senior officer in lieu of criminal proceedings, or • Financial liability was imposed on the director or senior officer in lieu of criminal proceedings, but the alleged criminal offense does not require proof of criminal intent. 14 Table of Contents • Reasonable legal costs, including attorneys’ fees, expended by the director or senior officer or for which the director or senior officer is charged by a court: • In an action brought against the director or senior officer by us, on our behalf or on behalf of a third party, • In a criminal action in which the director or senior officer is found innocent, or • In a criminal action in which the director or senior officer is convicted, but in which proof of criminal intent is not required. Our cash balances and investment portfolio have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by market conditions and interest rates We maintain substantial balances of cash and liquid investments, for purposes of acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $3,295.4 million as of December 31, 2012. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of funds that are held in marketable securities. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and various developments, including, without limitation, rating agency downgrades that may impair their value. We expect that market conditions will continue to fluctuate and that the fair value of our investments may be affected accordingly. Financial income is an important component of our net income. The outlook for our financial income is dependent on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, and they include the future direction of interest rates, the amount of any share repurchases or acquisitions that we effect and the amount of cash flows from operations that are available for investment. We rely on third-party money managers to manage the majority of our investment portfolio in a risk-controlled framework. Our investment portfolio throughout the world is invested primarily in fixed-income securities and is affected by changes in interest rates which continue to be low. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. In a low or declining interest rate environment, borrowers may seek to refinance their borrowings at lower rates and, accordingly, prepay or redeem securities we hold more quickly than we initially expected. This action may cause us to reinvest the redeemed proceeds in lower yielding investments. Any significant decline in our financial income or the value of our investments as a result of the low interest rate environment, falling interest rates, deterioration in the credit rating of the securities in which we have invested, or general market conditions, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We generally buy and hold our portfolio positions, while minimizing credit risk by setting maximum concentration limit per issuer and credit rating. Our investments consist primarily of government and corporate debentures. Although we believe that we generally adhere to conservative investment guidelines, the continuing turmoil in the financial markets may result in impairments of the carrying value of our investment assets. We classify our investments as available-for-sale. Changes in the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are not recognized to income during the period, but rather are recognized as a separate component of equity until realized. Realized losses in our investments portfolio may adversely affect our financial position and results. Had we reported all the accumulated changes in the fair values of our investments into income, our reported net income for the year ended December 31, 2012, would have increased by $13.3 million. Currency fluctuations may affect the results of our operations or financial condition Our functional and reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. We generate a majority of our revenues and expenses in U.S. dollars. In 2012, we incurred approximately 39% of our expenses in foreign currencies, primarily Israeli Shekels and Euros. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies has fluctuated substantially in recent years and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future. We expect that a majority of our revenues will continue to be generated in U.S. dollars for the foreseeable future 15 Table of Contents and that a significant portion of our expenses, including personnel costs, as well as capital and operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in the currencies referred to above. The results of our operations may be adversely affected in relation to foreign exchange fluctuations. During 2012, we entered into forward contracts to hedge against some of the risk of changes in future cash flow from payments of payroll and related expenses denominated in Israeli Shekels and Euros. We entered into forward contracts to hedge the exchange impacts on assets and liabilities denominated in Israeli Shekels and other currencies. As of December 31, 2012, we had outstanding forward contracts that did not meet the requirement for hedge accounting, in the amount of $100.9 million. We use derivative financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts, to mitigate the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates on accounts receivable and forecast cash flows denominated in certain foreign currencies. We may not be able to purchase derivative instruments adequate to fully insulate ourselves from foreign currency exchange risks and over the past year we have incurred losses as a result of exchange rate fluctuations that have not been effect in full by our hedging strategy. Additionally, our hedging activities may also contribute to increased losses as a result of volatility in foreign currency markets. If foreign exchange currency markets continue to be volatile, such fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could materially and adversely affect our profit margins and results of operations in future periods. Also, the volatility in the foreign currency markets may make it difficult to hedge our foreign currency exposures effectively. The imposition of exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and operations are subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, as well as manmade problems such as power disruptions or terrorism Our headquarters in the United States, as well as certain of our research and development operations, are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. We also have significant operations in other regions that have experienced natural disasters. A significant natural disaster occurring at our facilities in Israel or the U.S. or elsewhere, or where our channel partners are located, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, acts of terrorism could cause disruptions in our or our customers’ businesses or the economy as a whole. Further, we rely on information technology systems to communicate among our workforce located worldwide. Any disruption to our internal communications, whether caused by a natural disaster or by manmade problems, such as power disruptions or terrorism, could delay our research and development efforts. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, our research and development efforts or the deployment of our products, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel, where our principal executive offices and our principal research and development facilities are located, may adversely affect our results of operations We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in and surrounding Israel may directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Terrorist attacks and hostilities within Israel, the hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah and between Israel and Hamas, the conflict between Hamas and Fatah, as well as tensions between Israel and Iran, have also heightened these risks, including extensive hostilities in November 2012 along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip, which resulted in missiles being fired from the Gaza Strip into Israel. Our principal place of business is located in Tel Aviv, Israel, which is approximately 40 miles from the nearest point of the border with the Gaza Strip. There can be no assurance that 16 Table of Contents attacks launched from the Gaza Strip will not reach our facilities, which could result in a significant disruption of our business. Any hostilities involving Israel, a significant increase in terrorism or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could materially adversely affect our operations. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Recent uprisings in various countries in the Middle East and North Africa are affecting the political stability of those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political and trade relationships that exist between the State of Israel and these countries. In addition, this instability may affect the global economy and marketplace, including as a result of changes in oil and gas prices. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service Many of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces, in the event of a military conflict, could be called to active duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of military service of one or more of our key employees. Military service requirements for our employees could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The tax benefits available to us require us to meet several conditions, and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our effective tax rate was 21%. We have benefited or currently benefit from a variety of government programs and tax benefits that generally carry conditions that we must meet in order to be eligible to obtain any benefit. Our tax expenses and the resulting effective tax rate reflected in our financial statements may increase over time as a result of changes in corporate income tax rates, other changes in the tax laws of the countries in which we operate or changes in the mix of countries where we generate profit. If we fail to meet the conditions upon which certain favorable tax treatment is based, we would not be able to claim future tax benefits and could be required to refund tax benefits already received. Additionally, some of these programs and the related tax benefits are available to us for a limited number of years, and these benefits expire from time to time. Any of the following could have a material effect on our overall effective tax rate: • Some programs may be discontinued, • We may be unable to meet the requirements for continuing to qualify for some programs, • These programs and tax benefits may be unavailable at their current levels, • Upon expiration of a particular benefit, we may not be eligible to participate in a new program or qualify for a new tax benefit that would offset the loss of the expiring tax benefit, or • We may be required to refund previously recognized tax benefits if we are found to be in violation of the stipulated conditions. Additional details are provided in “Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Products” under the caption “Taxes on income”, in “Item 10 – Additional Information” under the caption “Israeli taxation, foreign exchange regulation and investment programs” and in notes 10b and 11 to our consolidated financial statements. Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, prevent a change of control, and negatively impact our share price Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders, and regulates other matters 17 Table of Contents that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential acquisition transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. For example, Israeli tax law may subject a shareholder who exchanges his or her ordinary shares for shares in a foreign corporation, to taxation before disposition of the investment in the foreign corporation. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. In addition, our articles of association contain certain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire us, such as the provision which provides that our board of directors may issue preferred shares. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of us, thereby limiting the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares and possibly affecting the price that some investors are willing to pay for our securities. Additional details are provided in “Item 10 – Additional Information” under the caption “Articles of Association and Israeli Companies Law – Anti-takeover measures.” 18 Table of Contents 