RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 20-F contains forward looking statements. The statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 20-F that are not purely historical facts are forward looking statements. These statements are based on our current expectations and projections about future events and are identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “scheduled,” “plan,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “aim,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of those terms or other comparable terminology. These forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions, goals, plans, investments or strategies regarding the future and any assumptions that relate to these. Forward looking statements also include, among others, statements in (i) “Item 4 – Information on Check Point” regarding our belief as to increased acceptance of Internet technologies, expansion of connectivity services, acceleration of the use of networks, increasing demands on enterprise security systems, the impact of our relationship with our technology partners on our sales goals, the contribution of our products to our future revenue, our development of future products and our ability to integrate, market and sell acquired products and technologies and (ii) “Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” regarding, among other things, future amounts and sources of our revenue, our ongoing relationships with our current and future customers and channel partners, our future costs and expenses, and the adequacy of our capital resources. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and our actual results may differ materially from those predicted. Many of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions are described in the risk factors set forth below in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 20-F are based on information available to us on the date of the filing and reasonable assumptions. We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward looking statements after the date of the filing to conform those statements to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by applicable law. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Market If the market for information and network security solutions does not continue to grow our business will be adversely affected The market for our products has expanded rapidly over the last decade, but the market for information and network security solutions may not continue to grow. Continued growth of this market will depend, in large part, upon: n the continued expansion of Internet usage and the number of organizations adopting or expanding intranets, n the ability of their respective infrastructures to support an increasing number of users and services, 6 n the continued development of new and improved services for implementation across the Internet and between the Internet and intranets, and n the adoption of data security measures as it pertains to disk encryption technologies. If the necessary infrastructure or complementary products and services are not developed in a timely manner and, consequently, the enterprise security, data security, Internet or intranet markets fail to grow or grow more slowly than we currently anticipate, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. You can see more details in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point.” We may not be able to successfully compete The market for information and network security solutions is intensely competitive and we expect that competition will continue to increase in the future. Our principal competitors include Cisco Systems, Inc., Fortinet Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc., Secure Computing Corporation, SonicWALL Inc. and WatchGuard Technologies Inc. We also compete with several other companies, including McAfee, Inc., Microsoft Corporation and Symantec Corporation, with respect to specific products that we offer, including data security products offered by Protect Data AB, which we recently acquired. Some of our current and potential competitors have various advantages over us, including increased competition that will result in pressure on us to reduce prices, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and brand reputation, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, a broader portfolio of products, applications and services, and larger patent and intellectual property portfolios. As a result, they may be able to adapt better than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Furthermore, some of our competitors with more diversified product portfolios may be better able to withstand a reduction in spending on information and network security solutions. In addition, consolidation in the markets in which we compete may affect our competitive position. We may not be able to continue competing successfully against our current and future competitors. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which will materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The markets in which we compete also include many niche competitors, generally smaller companies at a relatively early stage of operations, which are focused on specific Internet and data security needs. These companies’ specialized focus may enable them to adapt better than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements in their specific areas of focus. In addition, some of these companies can invest relatively large resources on very specific technologies or customer segments. Although to date none of these companies has materially affected our business, the cumulative effect of these companies’ activities in the market may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which will materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Vendors of operating system software or networking hardware may enhance their products to include functionality that is currently provided by our products. The widespread inclusion of the functionality of our software as standard features of operating system software or networking hardware could render our products obsolete and unmarketable, particularly if the quality of such functionality were comparable to that of our products. Furthermore, even if the network or application security functionality provided as standard features by operating systems software or networking hardware is more limited than that of our solutions, a significant number of customers may elect to accept more limited functionality in lieu of purchasing additional solutions. 7 If any of the events described above are realized, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. You can see more details in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point.” If we fail to enhance our existing products, develop or acquire new and more technologically advanced products or successfully commercialize these products, the results of our operations will suffer The information and network security industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards in computer hardware and software technology. In particular, the markets for data security, Internet and intranet applications are rapidly evolving. As a result, we must continually change and improve our products in response to changes in operating systems, application software, computer and communications hardware, networking software, programming tools and computer language technology. Our future operating results will depend upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis, to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and to keep pace with technological developments, new competitive product offerings and emerging industry standards. Our competitors’ introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing products obsolete or unmarketable. While we have been successful in developing, acquiring and marketing new products and product enhancements that respond to technological change and evolving industry standards, we may not be able to continue to do so. In addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products as well as the integration of acquired products. Furthermore, our new products or product enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. In some cases, a new product or product enhancements may negatively affect sales of our existing products. If we do not respond adequately to the need to develop and introduce new products or enhancements of existing products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. You can see more details in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point” and under the caption “We may not be able to successfully compete” in this Item 3. Undetected product defects may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products and technology Our products are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. They may contain undetected hardware or software errors or defects, especially when new or acquired products are introduced or when new versions are released. In particular, the personal computer hardware environment is characterized by a wide variety of non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. We may need to divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our research and development efforts to address instances of errors or defects. In addition, we may in the future incur costs associated with warranty claims. Our products are used to employ and manage Internet security and protect information, which may be critical to organizations. As a result, the sale and support of our products entails the risk of product liability and related claims. We do not know whether, in the future, we will be subject to liability claims or litigation for damages related to product errors, or will experience delays as a result of these errors. Our sales agreements and product licenses typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability or related claims. In selling our products, we rely primarily on “shrink wrap” licenses that are not signed by the end user, and for this and other reasons these licenses may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. As a result, the limitation of liability provisions contained in these licenses may not be effective. Although we maintain product liability insurance for most of our products, the coverage limits of these policies may not provide sufficient protection against an asserted claim. If litigation were to arise, it could, regardless of its outcome, result in substantial expense to us, significantly divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and disrupt or otherwise severely impact our relationships with current and potential customers. In addition, if any of our products fails to meet specifications or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in revenues, a loss of existing customers or the inability to attract new customers. 8 Risks relating to acquisitions We have made acquisitions in the past and we may make additional acquisitions in the future. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. In addition, if we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully or effectively manage the combined business following the completion of the acquisition. We may also not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: n unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition, n incurrence of acquisition-related costs, n diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, n harm to our existing business relationships with manufacturers, distributors and customers as a result of the acquisition, n the potential loss of key employees, n use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business, n use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition, and n unrealistic goals or projections for the acquisition. In December 2006, we completed the acquisition of NFR Security, Inc., a U.S. privately held company, for a total cash consideration of approximately $14.6 million and acquisition related costs of approximately $0.3 million. In addition, we assumed net liabilities of approximately $4.3 million. We have begun the process of integrating NFR into Check Point. In November 2006 we announced a tender offer for all outstanding shares and warrants of Protect Data AB that at the time of the offer was a public company listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. As of March 14, 2007, we had acquired over 98% of all of the shares and warrants of Protect Data, on a fully diluted basis, and we have begun the integration process. Protect Data is the owner of 100% of Pointsec Mobile Technologies AB, a leading provider of data security products, and other subsidiaries as listed below in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point” under the caption “Organizational structure.” Pointsec provides products that are different in nature than our core technologies. The difficulties of combining NFR and Protect Data’s operations with our own include issues such as coordinating the geographically separate organizations, integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds, integrating the products, marketing and selling a different technology, potential difficulties in retaining employees and the associated adverse effects on relationships with existing partners and customers. The integration may interrupt the activities of the combined companies’ businesses and may result in the loss of key personnel. This could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. 9 Our operating margins may decline We may experience future fluctuations or declines in operating margins from historical levels due to the following reasons: n increased competition that will result in pressure on us to reduce prices, n additional investments in the continuing development and expansion of our sales and marketing organization, including the expansion and further reinforcement of our worldwide field organization, n integration of an acquired business that at the time of acquisition has operating margins lower than ours, n additional expansion of our research and development organization, and n expected growth in the percentage of revenues that we derive from products incorporating hardware, which have lower operating margins than software products. Our operating margins are likely to fluctuate based on the amount and timing of these developments. In addition, if our revenue levels are below expectations, this will likely have an adverse effect on our operating margins, since most of our expenses are not variable. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate, which could cause us to miss expectations about these results and cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline Our revenues from our sales are not consistent from quarter to quarter and we experience some degree of seasonality in our sales. Factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from period to period include: n changes in customer capital spending budgets and allocations throughout the year, n seasonal trends in customer purchasing, n the occurrence of an infrastructure failure resulting in delay of quarter-end purchases of products, n the occurrence of Internet security breaches or threats, n the timing and success of new products and new technologies introduced by us or our competitors, n regional or global economic and political conditions, n our ability to integrate the technology and operations of acquired businesses with our own business, and n fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Unfavorable changes in the factors listed above, most of which are outside of our control, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Historically, our revenues have reflected seasonal fluctuations related to the slowdown in spending activities for the third quarter, and the increased activity related to the year-end purchasing cycles of many users of our products. We believe that we will continue to encounter quarter-to-quarter seasonality. We operate with immaterial backlog. Therefore, the timing and volume of orders within a given period and our ability to fulfill these orders determine the amount of our revenues within the period. 10 We derive our sales primarily through indirect channels, making it difficult for us to predict revenues. Furthermore, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenues. If our revenue levels are below expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely affected, since most of our expenses are not variable. In addition, changes in our arrangements with our network of channel partners or in the products they offer, such as our recent introduction of new support programs for our customers combining support from our channel partners with back-end support from us, could affect the timing and volume of orders. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Due to the factors described above, it is likely that in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline significantly. We may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404, which started in connection with our Annual Report on Form 20-F, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Although our management has determined that we complied with Section 404 in 2006, we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our future controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. We depend on our key personnel, including our executive officers, and the failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our business Our future performance depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical, sales and management personnel, including particularly our executive officers who were involved in the development of our Stateful Inspection technology and all of our principal products and technologies. None of our key personnel is bound by an employment agreement requiring service for any defined period of time. Our future performance also depends on our ability to attract such skilled personnel in the future. Competition for these personnel is intense. In order to retain our employees, we provide many of them with cash and stock based awards that can be realized over time, for their long term contribution, and we offer some of them career development paths within Check Point. We cannot assure you that we can retain our key personnel in the future. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could make it difficult for us to meet key objectives, such as timely product introductions, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce, in whole or in part, agreements that prohibit some of our employees from competing with us or working for our competitors after they cease working for us. It may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-competition undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that material harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. We are dependent on a small number of distributors and on a limited number of product families We derive our sales primarily through indirect channels. During 2006, we derived approximately 26% of our sales from two distributors, with the largest distributor accounting for approximately 15% of our sales, and the second largest distributor accounting for approximately 11% of our sales. During 2005, these two distributors accounted for approximately 24% of our sales, or approximately 12% each. During 2004 we derived approximately 13% of our sales from a single distributor. We expect that a small number of distributors will continue to generate a significant portion of our sales. Furthermore, there has been an industry trend toward consolidation among our distributors, and we expect this trend to continue in the near future, which could further increase our reliance on a small number of distributors for a significant proportion of our sales. If these distributors reduce the amount of their purchases from us, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Currently, we derive most of our revenues from sales of Internet security products primarily under our VPN-1 and related brands, as well as related revenues from software subscriptions, support and other services. We expect this to continue to be the case in the foreseeable future. Following the acquisition of Protect Data in 2007, we expect to derive revenues also from data security products and associated software subscription and support services. Our future growth depends heavily on our ability to effectively develop and sell new and acquired products as well as add new features to existing products. You can see more details in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point” and in “Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” We incorporate third party technology in our products, which may make us dependent on the providers of these technologies and expose us to potential intellectual property claims Our products contain certain technology that others license to us. Third party developers or owners of technologies may not be willing to enter into, or renew, license agreements with us regarding technologies that we may wish to incorporate in our products, either on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain licenses to these technologies, we may be at a disadvantage compared with our competitors who are able to license these technologies. In addition, when we do obtain licenses to third party technologies that we did not develop, we may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether the technology infringes the intellectual property rights of others. Our suppliers and licensors may not be required or may not be able to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. We incorporate open source technology in our products which may expose us to liability and have a material impact on our product development and sales Some of our products utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us on varying license structures but include the General Public License. This license and others like it pose a potential risk to products that are integrated with these technologies. For example, in the event we integrate into one of our products a technology covered under the General Public License, we may be required to disclose our source code for the integrated product. Disclosing our source code could enable our competitors to eliminate any technological advantage our products may have over theirs, and therefore materially adversely affect our competitive advantage and impact our business results of operations and financial condition. 12 We are the defendants in various lawsuits, and litigation is expensive and disruptive We are the defendants in various lawsuits, including employment claims and other legal proceedings in the normal course of our business. In addition, we received several class action complaints alleging violations of the federal securities laws. These complaints were later consolidated by the court into one action. In December 2006, we reached an agreement-in-principle to settle this class action lawsuit for $13 million, which amount is expected to be paid by our insurance carrier. The settlement is subject to the completion of appropriate documentation and to court approval. You can see the current status of this matter in more details in “Item 8 – Financial Information” under the caption “Legal proceedings.” Legal proceedings can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and can require extensive management attention and resources, regardless of their merit. Moreover, we cannot predict the results of complex legal proceedings, and an unfavorable resolution of a lawsuit or proceeding could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Companies such as ours in the software industry and other technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation as a result of the volatility of their stock prices. As noted above, we have been named as a defendant in this type of litigation. Any litigation of this sort could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights We seek to protect our proprietary technology by relying on a combination of common law copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions as indicated below in the section entitled “Proprietary Rights” in “Item 4 – Information on Check Point.” We have certain patents in the United States and some other countries, as well as pending patent applications. We cannot guarantee that pending patent applications will be issued, either at all or within the scope of the patent claims that we have submitted. In addition, someone else may challenge our patents and these patents may be found invalid. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar to or better than ours, or may work around any patents issued to us. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, others may copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary. Although we do not know the extent to which there is piracy of our software products, software piracy is a persistent problem. We try to police this type of activity, but it is difficult to do so effectively. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States or Israel. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop technology that is similar to our technology. If a third-party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, which could harm our business There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends, in part, upon our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. Third-parties have in the past sent us correspondence regarding their intellectual property and in the future we may receive claims that our products infringe or violate their intellectual property rights. Furthermore, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology or products. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from selling our products, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. In addition, we may decide to pay substantial settlement costs in connection with any claim or litigation, whether or not successfully asserted against us. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. 13 Litigation with respect to intellectual property rights in our industry is not uncommon and can often involve patent holding companies who have little or no product revenues and against whom our own patents may provide little or no deterrence. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners in connection with any such litigation, which could further exhaust our resources. Furthermore, as a result of an intellectual property challenge, we may be required to enter into royalty, license or other agreements. We may not be able to obtain these agreements at all or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, disputes regarding our intellectual property rights may deter distributors selling our products and dissuade potential end customers from purchasing such products. As such, third party claims with respect to intellectual property may increase our cost of goods sold or reduce the sales of our products, and may have a material and adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with international operations; these risks could increase our costs, reduce future growth opportunities and affect our results of operations We sell our products worldwide, and we book a significant portion of our revenue outside the United States. We intend to continue to expand our international operations, which will require significant management attention and financial resources. In order to continue to expand worldwide, we will need to establish additional operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional channel partners internationally. To the extent that we are unable to do so effectively, our growth is likely to be limited and our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Our international revenues and operations subject us to many risks inherent in international business activities, including, but not limited to: n technology import and export license requirements, n costs of localizing our products for foreign countries, and the lack of acceptance of localized products in foreign countries, n trade restrictions, n imposition of or increases in tariffs or other payments on our revenues in these markets, n changes in regulatory requirements, n greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property, n difficulties in managing our overseas subsidiaries and our international operations, n changes in general economic conditions, n political instability and civil unrest, which could discourage investment and complicate our dealings with governments, 14 n variety of foreign laws and legal standards, n expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities, n fluctuations in currency exchange rates, such as an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that would make our products more expensive in local currency and, therefore, potentially less competitive in those markets, n difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition, n differing labor standards, n potentially adverse tax consequences, including taxation of a portion of our revenues at higher rates than the tax rate that applies to us in Israel, and n the introduction of exchange controls and other restrictions by foreign governments. These difficulties could cause our revenues to decline, increase our costs or both. We are controlled by a small number of existing shareholders, who may make decisions with which you may disagree As of December 31, 2006, our directors and executive officers owned approximately 19.3% of the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares, or 23.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares if the percentage includes options currently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2006 (the exercise price of some of these options is greater than our current share market price). The interests of these shareholders may differ from your interests and present a conflict. If these shareholders act together, they could exercise significant influence over our operations and business strategy. For example, although these shareholders hold considerably less than a majority of our outstanding ordinary shares, they have sufficient voting power to influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election and removal of directors and the approval or rejection of mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, or deprive you of a possible premium for your ordinary shares as part of a sale of our company. Indemnification of directors and officers We have entered into agreements with each of our directors and senior officers to insure, indemnify and exculpate them against some types of claims, subject to dollar limits and other limitations. These agreements provide, subject to Israeli law, for us to indemnify each of these directors and senior officers for any of the following liabilities or expenses that they may incur due to an act performed or failure to act in their capacity as our director or senior officer: n monetary liability imposed on the director or senior officer in favor of a third party in a judgment, including a settlement or an arbitral award confirmed by a court, n reasonable legal costs, including attorneys’ fees, expended by a director or senior officer as a result of an investigation or proceeding instituted against the director or senior officer by a competent authority, provided that such investigation or proceeding concludes without the filing of an indictment against the director or senior officer and either: š no financial liability was imposed on the director or senior officer in lieu of criminal proceedings, or 15 š financial liability was imposed on the director or senior officer in lieu of criminal proceedings but the alleged criminal offense does not require proof of criminal intent, and n reasonable legal costs, including attorneys’ fees, expended by the director or senior officer or for which the director or senior officer is charged by a court: š in an action brought against the director or senior officer by us, on our behalf or on behalf of a third party, š in a criminal action in which the director or senior officer is found innocent, or š in a criminal action in which the director or senior officer is convicted but in which proof of criminal intent is not required. Our business and operations are subject to the risks of earthquakes and other natural catastrophic events Our headquarters in the United States, as well as certain of our research and development operations, are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could damage our operations and properties, and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel, where our principal executive offices and our principal research and development facilities are located, may adversely affect our results of operations We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in and surrounding Israel may directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could materially adversely affect our operations. Since October 2000 terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly. The recent election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council has resulted in an escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. In addition, there have recently been extensive hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon and to a lesser extent in the Gaza Strip. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The tax benefits available to us under Israeli law require us to meet several conditions, and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes Our facilities in Israel have been granted Approved Enterprise status under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, commonly referred to as the Investment Law. The Investment Law provides that capital investments in a production facility (or other eligible assets) may be designated as an Approved Enterprise. Until recently, the designation required advance approval from the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor. For these programs to be eligible for tax benefits, we must meet certain conditions, relating principally to adherence to the approved programs and to periodic reporting obligations. We believe that we are currently in compliance with these requirements. However, if we fail to meet these requirements, we would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the regular statutory rate. We could also be required to refund tax benefits, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. 16 Our board of directors has determined that we will not distribute any amounts of our undistributed tax exempt income as dividend. We intend to reinvest our tax-exempt income and not to distribute such income as a dividend. Accordingly, no deferred income taxes have been provided on income attributable to our Approved Enterprise program as the undistributed tax exempt income is essentially permanent in duration. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the Investment Law came into effect. The amendment revised the criteria for investments qualified to receive tax benefits. An eligible investment program under the amendment will qualify for benefits as a Privileged Enterprise (rather than the previous terminology of Approved Enterprise). Among other things, the amendment provides tax benefits to both local and foreign investors and simplifies the approval process. The amendment does not apply to investment programs approved prior to December 31, 2004. The new tax regime will apply to new investment programs only. As a result of the amendment, tax-exempt income generated under the provisions of the amended law will subject us to taxes upon dividend distribution or complete liquidation. You can see more details in “Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Products” under the caption “Taxes on income” and in “Item 10 – Additional Information” under the caption “Israeli taxation, foreign exchange regulation and investment programs.” Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service Many of our male employees in Israel, including members of senior management, are obligated to perform one month (in some cases more or less) of annual military reserve duty until they reach age 45 and, in the event of a military conflict, could be called to active duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of military service of one or more of our key employees. A disruption could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, prevent a change of control and negatively impact our share price Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders, and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential acquisition transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. For example, Israeli tax law may subject a shareholder who exchanges his or her ordinary shares for shares in a foreign corporation to taxation before disposition of the investment in the foreign corporation. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. In addition, our articles of association contain certain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire us, such as the provision which provides that our board of directors may issue preferred shares. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of us, thereby limiting the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares and possibly affecting the price that some investors are willing to pay for our securities. 17 You can see more details in “Item 10 – Additional Information” under the caption “Articles of association and Israeli Companies Law – Anti-takeover measures.” 