ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before making a decision about investing in our securities, one should carefully consider the risk factors listed below, as well as the rest of the information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K and our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Because of our immediate need for capital, our ability to continue as a going concern is in question. We presently anticipate that our current cash resources will be sufficient to fund operations through May 2008. We have only a limited ability to generate revenues from operations, and any revenues we generate are almost certain to be substantially less than our operating expenses. Accordingly, we have an immediate need to raise additional equity capital. Because of our limited cash and financial resources, our ability to continue as a going concern beyond May 2008, without a meaningful cash infusion, is in question. In the past, we have had periods in which we have been unable to raise adequate capital, and as a result, we have ceased certain of our product development programs and have taken numerous other steps to reduce our cash expenditures. Each of these steps, while conserving cash, has slowed the prospects of success in various product development efforts. We have recently slowed our development efforts, particularly in the ramp up of our Phase III registration study for M-Vax. The slowdown in our clinical trials can impair the timing of and ultimate success of those trials. We have no way of knowing if we will be able to complete any additional financings. We now conduct all AC Vaccine manufacturing out of our Lyon, France facility, which creates business uncertainties and logistical risks for the treatment of patients in our clinical trials. We previously manufactured our AC Vaccine for U.S. patients enrolled in our clinical trials at our facility in Philadelphia. We now conduct all AC Vaccine manufacturing at our Lyon, France facility. In our current clinical trials in the U.S. for M-Vax and L-Vax, we encounter various business uncertainties and logistical risks associated with the transport of biologics (consisting of human tumor cells) to France and shipping a patient’s individualized AC Vaccine back to the U.S. Had we been using this business model in September 2001, the September 11 attacks in the U.S. and the resultant suspensions and interruptions of international travel and shipments would have significantly disrupted our treatment of patients. There are additional risks associated with the transport of biologics and vaccines, including the time constraints under which a tumor must be received and processed and the specialized shipping requirements of the vaccine after it is manufactured. Although we have developed plans to manage these risks, we may encounter disruptions that we are unable to control, which could adversely affect the willingness of U.S. patients to enroll in our clinical studies or otherwise disrupt our clinical development of the AC Vaccine. 17 Table of Contents We may not be successful in revalidating our Philadelphia facility, and may be unable to produce vaccines at that facility in the future. We are in the process of revalidating our Philadelphia facility for the purpose of re-establishing that facility as a current Good Manufacturing Practices facility in which our vaccines and other biologics can be produced. We may not be successful in those efforts, or those efforts may take longer or cost more than we currently anticipate. Our failure to revalidate the Philadelphia facility will heighten our continued reliance upon our Lyon, France facility for the production of all vaccines, and the logistical risks associated with manufacturing the vaccine in Europe while many of our clinical trials sights are in the U.S. Our current objective is to have approximately half of the patients in the Phase III registration trail for M-Vax be from the U.S., with the vaccine produced in the U.S., and approximately half of the patients from Europe, with the vaccine produced at the Lyon facility. We will be required to produce the vaccine for commercial purposes from the same facility at which vaccines were produced for clinical trial purposes, which may limit our manufacturing options after regulatory approval is received. Under current FDA regulations, if we obtain FDA regulatory approval for the commercialization or one or more of our vaccines, we will be required initially to produce the vaccine for commercial purposes at the same facility or facilities at which we produced the vaccine during the Phase III registration trail for that indication. Accordingly, we may have limited flexibility to change our manufacturing facilities after commercialization of a vaccine has been approved by the FDA until a new facility can be validated and pass all required FDA regulatory approvals for the production of the vaccine. The FDA may even require a new or expanded clinical trial of the vaccine produced at a new manufacturing facility before the vaccine may be produced for commercial purposes at that facility. Those additional regulatory approvals could be time consuming and expensive and could delay commercialization of the approved vaccine product. The U.S. clinical trial and regulatory approval process for our products has been and will continue to be expensive and time consuming and the outcome uncertain. To obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our products in the U.S., we must demonstrate through clinical trials that our products are safe and effective. We will continue to incur substantial expense for, and devote a significant amount of time to, pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of our products in the U.S. The results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials are not totally predictive of results that may be obtained in later clinical trials. Data obtained from pre-clinical testing and clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, regulatory delays or rejections may be encountered as a result of many factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. Our business and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected by any delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials. Our clinical trials for the AC Vaccine were placed on clinical hold by the FDA in spring 2001. We did not re-file the INDs until fall 2002 to recommence clinical trials. That delay was costly to us in terms of both time and money. During that 16-month period, we were unable to proceed with any patients in our AC Vaccine clinical trials. Similar delays could occur in the future, resulting in significant delays, expense and lost opportunities. Even though the new INDs have been initiated, we still may not be able to obtain the funding to complete the U.S. regulatory approval process or we may fail to obtain FDA approval for our products. We may never be able to commercialize our AC Vaccine products in the U.S. 18 Table of Contents The European regulatory approval process for our products has been and will continue to be expensive and time consuming and the outcome uncertain. To offer any of our vaccine products for commercial sale in European Union countries, we must either obtain the regulatory approval from the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA), which approval will be binding upon all European Union countries, or from the applicable regulatory body in each European or other country in which we desire to offer the product for commercial sale. We have encountered regulatory delays in Europe in the past and may well experience further delays in our desired regulatory approval path in the future. For example, in March 2005, we submitted a Biological License Application filing with AFSSAPs (the French counterpart of the U.S. FDA) for the treatment of stage 3 and 4 melanoma patients in France. In February 2006, AFSSAPs notified us that the filing was not approvable with the current data and that additional data would be necessary to support an approval. Our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by future delays in the regulatory approval process in Europe, and we may never be able to commercialize our AC Vaccine products in Europe. We utilize two products in our AC Vaccines or clinical trials that are produced by third parties, and the unavailability of those products could adversely affect our regulatory approval process in the U.S. or Europe. We administer the AC Vaccine with Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (“BCG”), which is an approved product for other cancer indications and is being administered by other companies as a separate vaccine. There are several sources of BCG, each formulation of which differs based upon the original source of the product. If we are unable to continue to obtain the current strain of BCG used in our clinical trials, we may not be permitted by regulatory authorities to use another strain of BCG without conducting additional clinical studies with the new strain of BCG. For our Phase III registration trial for M-Vax, the M-Vax arm will consist of an initial dose of M-Vax (autologous DNP-modified tumor cells) followed by cyclophosphamide (“CY”) and six weekly doses of M-Vax administered with BCG. Following vaccine administration, patients will receive a course of low dose IL-2 administered subcutaneously. IL-2 is produced exclusively by Novartis AG, and if we or our clinicians are unable to continue to obtain IL-2 from Novartis, we may not be permitted by the FDA to continue our current Phase III clinical trial for M-Vax. We compete with other clinical programs and other treatments for patients for our clinical trials, which will affect our ability to enroll quickly our clinical trials. We compete with numerous clinical trials and other treatment regimens (both in the U.S. and Europe) for patients for our clinical trials and will compete with those programs for patients for our clinical trials. Companies with clinical trials, including us, provide information and other incentives to oncologists and other specialists as an inducement to participate in clinical trials. A physician is required to place patients in clinical trials based upon the physician’s assessment of the likely benefits of that clinical trial to the patient. The information provided by us regarding any future clinical trials may not be sufficient to persuade physicians to place their patients in our clinical trials. We have experienced intense competition for patients for our previous clinical trials. 19 Table of Contents We raise capital in U.S. dollars, but have significant expenses in France, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. We conduct our capital raising efforts in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are generated and incurred in currencies other than U.S. dollars, mainly Euros. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We are operating in a regulated industry where the guidance for acceptable manufacturing and testing of our products and processes is evolving, which creates uncertainties, delays and expense for us. Regulatory standards require that we produce our products in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices. These requirements, as dictated by the applicable U.S. and European regulatory authorities, adopt the methods for end product standards and methods of analysis, for which the U.S. guidance is published in the United States Pharmacopoeia (similar guidance for Europe is published in the European Pharmacopoeia). In February 2002, the United States Pharmacopeia issued a new general information chapter entitled “cell and gene therapy products,” which became effective April 2002. This relates to the production and testing of cell and gene therapy products. This is the first known industry general guideline specifically related to the manufacture of cell and gene therapy products. New guidance can be expected as the cell and gene therapy areas of the pharmaceutical industry expand. We will be required to adapt our existing physical facilities, process and procedures to these standards for the production of our products during clinical testing and for future commercialization. The inability to adapt to these evolving standards will delay our ability to produce product for clinical testing and would delay our ability to enter into clinical trials. We are a development stage biopharmaceutical company, and we may never develop or successfully market any products. Investors must evaluate us in light of the expenses, delays, uncertainties and complications typically encountered by development stage biopharmaceutical businesses, many of which we have already experienced and many of which are beyond our control. The risks of a development stage biopharmaceutical company that we have already encountered include: • the FDA clinical hold of our AC Vaccine clinical trials in 2001 and the resultant substantial expenses and delays in resolving the FDA concerns and refiling new INDs for the reformulated AC Vaccine products; • manufacturing challenges relating to the production of a vaccine from the patient’s own cancer cells, such as the sterility issues we previously experienced at our Philadelphia facility; • our failure to develop a market for the AC Vaccine in Australia, notwithstanding substantial expenditures of time and money to do so; • our past inability to agree with the FDA on an acceptable potency assay (which is a biological measure of the drug’s active ingredients) of our product prior to administration of the vaccine, which agreement was required before we could commence a Phase III registration trial for M-Vax; • our inability to generate any meaningful revenues from any other products or services while we work to develop our lead products and technologies; and • the cutbacks in our development plans and programs due to the limited cash resources in recent years, and our continual need to raise additional capital. As a result of these and likely continuing challenges of being a development stage biopharmaceutical company, our products may never be successfully developed or marketed. Even if our AC Vaccine technology receives regulatory approval and is determined to be safe and effective, our products may not gain commercial acceptance. Even if the AC Vaccine technology is safe and effective, there is no guarantee of commercial acceptance. Because the AC Vaccine technology is a new approach to the treatment of cancer, it must be accepted by both patients and physicians before it can be successfully commercialized. Due to the nature of the vaccine technology, it requires that current practitioners revise the way they think about cancer and cancer treatment. The marketplace of ideas, technologies and information is crowded, and we must develop the means to reach leading specialist physicians in each market with the AC Vaccine story. 20 Table of Contents If governmental and insurance reimbursement is not available or is insufficient, a market for our products may never develop or be economically feasible. The availability of governmental and insurance reimbursements of the costs of the vaccine is critical to ultimate physician and patient acceptance of the AC Vaccine technology. In both the U.S. and other countries, sales of our products will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, which include government health administration authorities, managed care providers, and private health insurers. For new products or technologies, reimbursement must be established under existing governmental or insurance regulations or practices. We will be required to obtain reimbursement approvals (both governmental and insurance) in each country in which we obtain appropriate regulatory authority to market the AC Vaccine products. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty surrounds the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products, and our products may not be considered cost effective by a particular governmental authority or insurer. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in the research and development of our products. We may lose control over the development, marketing and distribution of our vaccines if we enter into third party arrangements to perform or assist us in performing any of those functions. We may seek alliances or strategic partnerships for one or more of our AC Vaccine products with large pharmaceutical companies to maximize our regulatory, clinical and commercialization efforts. We may also have to depend on third parties to market and distribute our products. We currently do not have the resources to develop fully, market or distribute M-Vax, O-Vax, L-Vax or any other products that we may develop in the future. Moreover, it is particularly difficult and expensive to develop and distribute the AC Vaccine products, because they are custom made for each individual patient. If we enter into alliances, strategic partnerships or distribution agreements with third parties, we may have less control over the development, marketing and distribution activities performed by third parties than if we were performing those functions with our own facilities and employees. This lack of direct control could adversely affect the results of these activities. 21 Table of Contents Current and future legislation may make our products unprofitable. Current and future legislation can and likely will continue to affect directly the ultimate profitability of pharmaceutical products and technologies. The U.S. and other countries continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. Accordingly, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of our products may change before the products are approved for marketing to the public. Adoption of new legislation and regulations could further limit reimbursement for our products. If third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement rates for our products, the market acceptance of the products may be adversely affected. In that case, our business and financial condition will suffer. We are not aware of any specific legislation or regulation in the U.S. or Europe designed to limit reimbursement for products like ours, but we believe that there is a credible risk that political and budget considerations could change dramatically the funding available for vaccine reimbursement. We may not be able to control the pricing of our products overseas. Foreign government regulations and programs will likewise affect foreign pricing opportunities for our products. Virtually all foreign countries regulate or set the prices of pharmaceutical products, which is a separate determination from whether a particular product will be subject to reimbursement under that government’s health plans. There are systems for reimbursement and pricing approval in each country and moving a product through those systems is time consuming and expensive. We may not be able to obtain or defend our patents or operate without infringing upon the rights of others. We, as well as our current and potential future licensors, may be unable or have difficulty obtaining and defending our patents and maintaining our trade secrets. If so, we could be delayed or prevented from manufacturing, using or selling our products. It is also possible that one of our products or technologies may infringe upon an existing U.S. or foreign patent of a third party, or that other patents could issue in the future that could interfere with our ability to make or sell our products. If we are involved in a patent dispute, we may have to pay significant legal costs, license fees or damages, and may have to stop producing and selling our products and technologies. It is also possible that if we require the use of other patents in order to be able to commercialize our products, we may not be able to obtain licenses for those patents. We are heavily dependent upon the personal reputation and personal contacts of our Chief Medical Officer, and the loss of his services could materially adversely affect our plan of operation. The inventor of the AC Vaccine technology is Dr. David Berd, who has served as our Chief Medical Officer since November 1, 2004. Prior to then, we obtained his services in directly through our research and license agreements with Thomas Jefferson University, where Dr. Berd was a professor in the Medical School. The acceptance of the AC Vaccine technology within the oncology world is highly dependent upon the personal reputation and the personal contacts of Dr. Berd. Dr. Berd is also critical in guiding the technology through the regulatory process in both the U.S. and Europe. If we lost his services, the development of our AC Vaccine technology could be significantly slower and less successful that it otherwise would be with his services. 22 Table of Contents We have recently appointed a new Chief Executive Officer, and the transition to a new Chief Executive Officer could disrupt our plan of operation. Effective December 1, 2007, we appointed Francois R. Martelet, M.D. as our new President and Chief Executive Officer, and Richard P. Rainey, our then current President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, agreed to remain with the company as our Principal Accounting Officer until May 31, 2008. We do not anticipate that Mr. Rainey will continue in his current position with the company beyond May 31, 2008. The change to a new Chief Executive Officer and the future loss of our current Principal Accounting Officer could result in delays to or future changes in the implementation of the plan of operation, which delays or changes could adversely affect our current plan of operation. We have always been dependent upon our small management team to obtain funding for the research and development of our products, to decide which of our products to promote, to shepherd the products through the clinical trial and regulatory approval process, and to stimulate business development and seek out new products and technologies for development. In addition, our current financial condition makes it more difficult for us to retain our current executives and key employees. We may not be able to compete with other companies, research institutes, hospitals or universities that are developing and producing cancer treatment products and technologies. Many other companies, research institutes, hospitals and universities are working to develop products and technologies in our specific field of cancer research. Many of these entities have more experience than we do in developing and producing cancer treatment products. Most of these entities also have much greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than we possesses. We believe that numerous pharmaceutical companies are engaged in research and development efforts for products that could directly compete with our products under development. In addition, some of our competitors have already begun testing products and technologies similar to our own. These other entities may succeed in developing products before us or that are better than those that we are developing. We expect competition in our specific area of research to intensify. The trading volume of our common stock is relatively low and a more active market may never develop. The average daily trading volume in our common stock varies significantly, but is usually low. On many days, the common stock trades less than 15,000 shares. This low average volume and low average number of transactions per day may affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares in the public market at prevailing prices. A more active trading market for our common stock may never develop. Our common stock was delisted from NASDAQ in 2003, which will continue to have an adverse impact on the liquidity and pricing of our common stock. Our common stock was moved from the NASDAQ National Market to the NASDAQ Small Cap Market in 2002 and was delisted from the NASDAQ Small Cap Market in 2003 due to the continuing failure of our stock to meet the continuing listing requirements of both the NASDAQ National and Small Cap Markets (currently the NASDAQ Global and NASDAQ Capital Markets, respectively). We believe that the delisting has hurt the liquidity and pricing of our common stock, which trades on the OTC Bulletin Board. The trading efficiencies for our common stock associated with a listing on NASDAQ or a national security exchange will continue until our stock is re-listed, which may never occur. 23 Table of Contents Because our common stock is a “penny stock,” you may have difficulty selling our common stock in the secondary trading market. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share. Additionally, if the equity security is not registered or authorized on a national securities exchange or NASDAQ, the equity security also would constitute a “penny stock.” Because our common stock falls within the definition of penny stock, these regulations require the delivery, prior to certain transactions involving our common stock, of a risk disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. Disclosure is also required to be made in certain circumstances regarding compensation payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. In addition, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stocks. Accordingly, the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and the ability of stockholders to sell our common stock in the secondary market is limited. As a result, the market liquidity for our common stock is adversely affected by the application of these penny stock rules. Trading in our common stock will likely continue to be adversely affected by the application of these rules. The rights of our preferred stockholders are superior to the rights of our common stockholders. The holders of our Series C preferred stock have certain rights that are superior to the rights of holders of our common stock, including a liquidation preference over the common stock. In the case of (1) a liquidation, (2) if we cease to exist by virtue of a merger in which we are not the surviving corporation, or (3) if one person or entity acquires more than 50% of the voting power of the company, holders of our Series C preferred stock will receive $100 per share in cash or securities (a total of $3,350,000 as of December 31, 2007), before any distributions are made to the holders of our common stock. Additionally, the holders of the Series C preferred stock are entitled to the consideration per share of common stock that they would have received from the transaction if they had converted all of their shares of Series C preferred stock into common stock immediately before the transaction. These rights of the Series C preferred stock holders could result in the holders of those shares receiving substantially more of the consideration in a merger transaction than they would otherwise have received if they had actually converted their shares of Series C preferred stock into common stock before the merger transaction. The holders of our common stock would, accordingly, receive a lesser amount in a merger transaction of that type than they would have received if there were no outstanding shares of the Series C preferred stock. 