Item 1A. Risk Factors SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward- looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are any statements other than statements of historical fact. Examples of forward-looking statements include projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, statements of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, and statements concerning proposed new products and services, and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “expects,” “should,” “believes,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” or “continue,” and any other words of similar meaning. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this report and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong and may cause our actual results to differ materially from forecasted or historical results. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those outlined below. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also note that we provide cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors besides those listed here could also adversely affect us. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision regarding CNET Networks securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. The matters relating to the Special Committee’s and Management’s review of our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have resulted in expanded litigation and regulatory proceedings and may result in future litigation which could harm our financial results. On May 22, 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors had appointed a Special Committee comprised of independent directors to conduct, with the assistance of legal counsel and outside accounting experts, an internal investigation relating to past option grants, the timing of such grants and related accounting matters. The Special Committee reached a preliminary conclusion in July 2006 concluding that the actual measurement dates for certain stock options granted between 1998 and 2001 differed from the recorded measurement dates. Charges related to the change in these stock option measurement dates were determined to be material and, as a result, on January 29, 2007, we filed restated financial statements for 2005, 2004 and 2003 and the first quarter of 2006. 6 Table of Contents Our review of our past stock option granting practices has required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, has diverted our management’s attention from our business, and could in the future harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. In June 2006, we received a grand jury document subpoena from the United States Attorney for the Northern District of California requesting records pertaining to the granting of stock options. In addition, in May 2006 we received notice that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) was conducting an informal inquiry into our stock option grants. We are cooperating, and will continue to cooperate fully with the United States Attorney for the Northern District of California and the SEC. We cannot predict the outcome of these investigations. In addition, as described in Part II, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”, several derivative complaints have been filed against our directors and certain of our executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. We cannot guarantee that new lawsuits related to the investigation or our restatements will not be filed, and we cannot predict the outcome of any current or potential future litigation or regulatory proceeding against CNET Networks or our directors or officers. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past option grant measurement date errors, and there is a risk that any SEC inquiry could lead to circumstances in which we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or otherwise take other actions not currently contemplated. In addition, the SEC may issue additional guidance on disclosure requirements related to the financial impact of past option grant measurement date errors that may require us to amend this filing or prior filings with the SEC to provide additional disclosures pursuant to this guidance. Any such circumstance could also lead to future delays in filing our subsequent SEC reports and delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The matters relating to the Special Committee’s and Management’s review of our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements may otherwise adversely impact our business. As a result of our delayed filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006, we will be ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3 for sale by us or resale by others until November 2007. We may use Form S-1 to raise capital or complete acquisitions, but doing so could increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. Employees who were awarded options that were granted at a discount from fair market value and were all or partially unvested as of December 31, 2004, which we refer to as discount options, may be subject to income tax liability on the vesting date of those discount options in addition to a 20% excise tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A (“Section 409A”) and parallel states taxes. The Company is considering certain actions, which we believe would be in the best interests of our stockholders and employees and might substantially reduce or eliminate the Section 409A and adverse state tax liability for the Company’s employees. There is no guarantee that the Company will be successful in developing effective measures to address employees’ adverse tax consequences. Any such measures may cause the Company to incur additional cash or noncash compensation expense. Furthermore, such measures, or the failure of such measures, may require the Company to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services and may divert our management’s attention from our business, which could in the future harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenues might not grow, and they might decrease. Several factors, many of which are outside of our control, contribute to our revenues growth. Some scenarios that might impede our revenues growth in the future include: • our failure to maintain existing customers and to attract new marketing customers due to competition from other media outlets, dissatisfaction with our services or reduced advertising budgets; • our loss of advertising and other marketing opportunities to competitors, especially as other media companies increase their online presence in areas where we focus; • our inability to attract advertisers and users for our newer websites; • our inability to respond to ad-blocking technology might decrease the effectiveness of online advertising; • our failure to attract and retain users to our websites where advertising inventory is purchased; • weakness in corporate and consumer spending in the markets in which we operate, including in the United States, the United Kingdom, China, France and Japan, may lead to a decline in advertising, which is the primary source of our revenues; 7 Table of Contents • a decline in general economic conditions, which could occur as a result of currency fluctuations, rising interest rates, or other factors; • disruption of our operations due to technical difficulties, system downtime, Internet brownouts or denial of service or other similar attacks; and • disruption to our operations, employees, partners, customers and facilities caused by natural disasters, international or domestic terrorist attacks or armed conflict. We may not be able to achieve our targeted profit margins and accordingly we may fail to make expected improvements in our overall profit margins. We have identified profit margins as a useful performance measure. We may fail to achieve our profit margin targets. Some of the factors that could cause us not to achieve these targets include: • greater than expected expenses due to a decision to invest in new products, services or websites; • acquisitions of businesses that cannot immediately achieve these profit margins; • greater than expected compensation expenses due to competition for qualified employees; • a failure to achieve projected revenues growth; or • a failure to manage the costs associated with innovation and growth. Competition is intense and we might not compete successfully. The media industry is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. We compete for advertisers, users and business partners with numerous companies throughout the world and expect the market to become increasingly competitive as Internet usage and marketing continues to grow in acceptance. We compete with diversified media companies that provide both online and offline content, including magazines, cable television, network television, radio and newspapers. In addition, as diversified media companies continue to introduce and acquire more interactive media offerings, we will increasingly compete with them for consumers and advertisers. We believe that the Internet offers a competitive advantage over offline media for creating a rich and interactive environment for both users and marketers. Our brands also compete with sites focused on the same vertical markets on which we focus. For example, our gaming properties compete with other gaming sites such as IGN Entertainment, and our business properties compete with smaller, niche sites such as TechTarget. As Internet media consumption and advertising continues to gain share, we compete with a variety of online properties for users and marketers, including the following: general purpose portals like AOL, MSN and Yahoo!, especially as these properties expand their content offering in our areas of expertise; search engines like Google, Yahoo! and MSN; online comparison shopping and retail properties, including Shopping.com, Amazon.com and eBay; social networking and community properties such as MySpace and Facebook; and emerging platforms such as blogs, podcasts and video properties. We believe our ability to marry content and community in a unique branded environment coupled with expertise in building online brands for people and the things they are passionate about provide us with many advantages over our competitors. An inability to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our operations. Our success depends to a large extent on the continued services of our senior management team and qualified skilled employees. We depend on our ability to identify, attract, develop, retain and motivate personnel in a competitive job environment. We currently have several key executive positions open, and we cannot assure you that we will find qualified candidates in a timely manner. Our inability to attract key executives and other employees or to retain and motivate existing executives and employees may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our officers or other employees. As the overall industry for interactive content and Internet advertising grows, our employees are increasingly sought after by competitors. In order to remain competitive in the employment market, we may need to increase compensation to retain or attract qualified employees, which could have an adverse effect our financial condition or operating results. Our inability to attain shareholder approval of equity compensation plans may affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. Our advertising and other operating revenues may be subject to fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe that advertising spending on the Internet, as in traditional media, fluctuates significantly with economic conditions. Because a majority of our revenues are derived from advertising, fluctuations in advertising spending generally, or with respect to Internet-based spending specifically, could adversely impact our revenues. In addition, marketing spending follows seasonal consumer behavior throughout the calendar year to reflect trends during the calendar year, with spending historically weighted towards the fourth quarter. Consistent with industry trends, our revenues in 2006 were weighted toward the end of the year, with 31% of our revenues being earned in the fourth quarter. 8 Table of Contents Most of our revenues are derived from short-term contracts which may not be renewed. Our revenues are derived in large part from the sale of advertising and we expect that this will continue to be the case for the foreseeable future. Most of our advertising contracts are short-term and are subject to termination by the customer at any time on thirty-day prior written notice. Advertisers who have longer-term contracts may fail to honor their existing contracts or fail to renew their contracts. If a significant number of advertisers or a few large advertisers decided not to continue advertising on our websites, we could experience a rapid decline in our revenues over a relatively short period of time. We depend on, and receive, a significant percentage of our revenues from a relatively small number of advertisers. A relatively small number of advertisers contribute a significant percentage of our revenues. Our top one hundred customers in the United States contributed 56% of our revenues in 2006. These customers may not continue to use our services to the same extent, or at all, in the future. A significant reduction in advertising by one or more of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Users may not always accept, or may be drawn away from, our brands, content and services. Our future success depends upon the strength of our brands and our ability to deliver original and compelling content and services that attract and retain users. We will endeavor to continue building existing brands and introducing new brands, that resonate with their audiences, but we may not be successful. The specialized nature of certain of our sites may limit those sites’ potential user base. Our content and services might not be attractive to a sufficient number of users to generate revenues consistent with our estimates. In addition, we might not develop new content or services in a timely or cost-effective manner. If we are not successful in growing our user base and increasing user interaction on our sites, then our ability to attract the advertisers who seek to market to the demographic represented by our user base may be affected which would in turn impact our revenues. Our ability to successfully develop and produce content and services is subject to numerous uncertainties, including the ability to: • anticipate and successfully respond to rapidly changing consumer tastes and preferences; • fund new program development; • attract and retain qualified editors, producers, writers, and technical personnel; and • successfully expand our content offerings into new platform and delivery mechanisms. Our business may be impacted by any event that decreases the amount of the time that users spend on our properties, including but not limited to geopolitical events and natural disasters. During these times, our traffic and revenues may decrease. Our failure to use third-party technologies or develop and maintain successful relationships with third parties may adversely impact our traffic. We depend in part on third parties for Internet traffic to our websites and changes to their operations or our failure to develop and maintain relationships with them or use their technologies successfully could result in decreased traffic. Any reduction in users on our websites could negatively impact our ability to earn revenues. A significant portion of our users visit our websites by conducting a search on a search engine, such as Google, MSN or Yahoo!, and following a link displayed in the search results. Changes in the methodologies used by these search engines to display results or our failure to successfully optimize our sites for search engine ranking could result in our websites receiving less favorable placements, which could reduce the number of users who link to our sites from these search engines. In addition, we rely on the cooperation of owners and operators of other Internet sites with whom we have syndication and other arrangements to generate traffic for our Internet sites. Our ability to maintain these relationships will continue to be critical to the success of our Internet operations. If we are unable to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with such third parties on acceptable commercial terms, or if our competitors are better able to capitalize on these relationships, we could see a reduction in the numbers of users of our websites, which could adversely impact our revenues. A significant percentage of our revenues are derived from activity-based fees generated when our users visit the content of our partners, and we might not be able to attract qualified users for which our partners are willing to pay us activity-based fees. We earn fees when users search the content of our partners. There are currently many other businesses that offer similar services. In addition, users may prefer to contact our partners directly rather than return to our sites. If we are unable to continue to attract users to our sites or to maintain the fees we charge our partners for these services, then our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Most of our agreements with merchants under which activity-based fees are earned are terminable by either party on ten to thirty days notice. We have limited protection of our intellectual property and could be subject to infringement claims that may result in costly litigation, the payment of damages or the need to revise the way we conduct our business. Our success and ability to compete are dependent in part on the strength of our proprietary rights, on the goodwill associated with our trademarks, trade names, service marks, and on our ability to use United States and foreign laws to protect them. Our intellectual 9 Table of Contents property includes our original content, our editorial features, logos, brands, domain names, the technology that we use to deliver our products and services, the various databases of information that we maintain and make available through our Internet sites or by license, and the appearance of our Internet sites. We claim common law protection on certain names and marks that we have used in connection with our business activities. While we have applied for and obtained registration of many of our marks in countries outside of the United States where we do business, we have not been able to obtain registration of all of our key marks in such jurisdictions, in some cases due to opposition by people employing similar marks. In addition to laws in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, we rely on confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. Worldwide policing of our intellectual property rights is a difficult task and we might not be able to identify infringers. Our content is widely distributed to third parties through licensing arrangements, and we cannot be certain our third party licensees will always take actions to protect the value of our proprietary rights and reputation. Intellectual property laws, our agreements and our patents may not be sufficient to prevent others from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our content or technologies. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to ours. In seeking to protect our trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights, or defending ourselves against claims of infringement brought by others, with or without merit, we could face costly litigation and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Notwithstanding the efforts that we have taken to ensure that we have sufficient rights to the intellectual property that we use, we could still be subject to claims of infringement. For instance, there has been a recent increase in the granting and attempted enforcement of business process patents that cover practices that may be widely employed in the Internet industry. We have, on occasion, been approached by holders of patents alleging that our services infringe on their patents. Many companies that offer services similar to ours have been approached and, in some cases, sued by other patent holders alleging patent infringement. We could be required to enter into costly royalty arrangements with the holders of these patents or to revise our services to ensure non-infringement or to avoid litigation. If we are unsuccessful in avoiding litigation, we would incur significant expenses and could be subject to damage awards, including damages for past infringement and royalties for future use of the patented method or technology. If we are found to violate any such patent, and we are unable to enter into a license agreement on reasonable terms, our ability to offer services could be materially and adversely affected. We do not have insurance for patent infringement. These claims could result in the need to develop alternative trademarks, content or technology or to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business involves risks of liability claims for Internet and print content, which could result in significant costs. As a publisher and a distributor of content through the Internet and print publications, we may face potential liability for: • defamation/libel; • negligence; • copyright, patent or trademark infringement; or • other claims based on the nature and content of the materials published or distributed. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services and publishers of print publications. In addition, we could be exposed to liability in connection with material posted to our Internet sites by third parties. For example, many of our sites offer users an opportunity to post profiles, software, videos, photos, reviews and opinions. Some of this user-generated content, and the content that appears in our indexes and directories, may infringe on third party intellectual property rights or privacy rights or may otherwise be subject to challenge under copyright laws. Although we do not believe that our listing of any such material should expose us to liability, it is possible that such a claim may be successfully brought. Our insurance may not cover potential claims of defamation, libel, negligence and similar claims, and it may or may not apply to a particular claim or be adequate to reimburse us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Changes in regulations could adversely affect the way that we operate. It is possible that new laws and regulations in the United States and elsewhere will be adopted covering issues affecting our business, including: • privacy and use of personally identifiable information; • copyrights, trademarks and domain names; 10 Table of Contents • obscene or indecent communications; • pricing, characteristics and quality of Internet products and services; • marketing practices, such as direct marketing or adware; • the ability of children to access our services; • taxation of Internet usage and transactions; and • securities and tax regulations. Increased government regulation, or the application of existing laws to online activities, could: • decrease the growth rate of the Internet; • reduce our revenues; • increase our operating expenses; and • expose us to significant liabilities. We cannot be sure what effect any future material noncompliance by us with these laws and regulations or any material changes in these laws and regulations could have on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may have difficulties with our acquisitions, investments and new product developments. We intend to pursue new business opportunities and ventures to expand our business, including acquisitions, investments and new product developments in a broad range of content areas and in various domestic and international markets. Our decision to pursue these activities would be accompanied by risks, including, among others: • investment of a substantial amount of capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to execute our existing business strategy; • issuance of additional equity interests, which would be dilutive to current stockholders; • the need to incur borrowings, which would impact future cash flows for the repayment of principal and interest payments, and which borrowing may also have restrictive covenants that could limit certain operating activities including our ability to make acquisitions; • additional burdens on our management personnel and financial and operational systems; • difficulty assimilating the operations, technology, corporate culture and personnel of the newly acquired businesses; • potential disruption to our ongoing business; • possible inability to retain key personnel; • additional operating losses and expenses associated with the activities and expansion of acquired businesses; including expenses associated with amortization of purchased intangible assets, • possible impairment of relationships with existing employees and advertising customers; • the impact of our recently completed stock option investigation and related lawsuits on our ability to attract business partners; • potential undisclosed liabilities associated with new or acquired businesses; and • for foreign acquisitions and investments, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks, and the particular economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. In addition, our $60.0 million credit facility, which expires in October 2007, has significant restrictions on additional further borrowings which could impact our ability to fund acquisitions or to pay for capital purchases. We may not innovate at a successful pace. Our industry is rapidly adopting new technologies and standards to create and satisfy consumer demand. It is critical that we continue to innovate, anticipate and adapt to these changes to ensure that our content delivery platforms, services and products remain interesting to our users, advertisers and partners. In addition, we may discover that we must make significant expenditures to achieve this goal. If we fail to accomplish these goals, we may lose users and the advertisers that seek to reach those users. Changes in our tax rate could affect our future results. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretations. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns by the Internal Revenues Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. The outcomes from examinations may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents We may be subject to system disruptions and other events that may impact use of our properties, which could adversely affect our revenues. Our ability to attract and maintain relationships with users, advertisers, and strategic partners will depend on the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our Internet infrastructure. Our Internet advertising revenues relate directly to the number of advertisements and other marketing opportunities delivered to our users. System interruptions or delays that result in the unavailability of Internet sites or slower response times for users would reduce the number of impressions and leads delivered. This could reduce revenues as the attractiveness of our sites to users, strategic partners and advertisers decreases. Our insurance policies provide only limited coverage for service interruptions and may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. Further, we do not have multiple site capacity for all of our services in the event of any such occurrence. We may experience service disruptions for the following reasons: • occasional scheduled maintenance; • equipment failure; • an increase in traffic volumes to our sites beyond our infrastructure’s capacity; • disruptions in the services provided to us by third parties; and • natural disasters, telecommunications failures, power failures, other system failures, maintenance, viruses, hacking or other events. In addition, our business may be impacted by any event that decreases the amount of the time that users spend on our properties. During these times, our traffic and revenues may decrease. Such events include, but are not limited to, geopolitical events and natural disasters. There is no guarantee that our disaster recovery plans will be effective in mitigating system disruptions caused by these and other events. Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized persons accessing our systems, which could disrupt our Internet operations and result in the theft of our proprietary information. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate either our proprietary information or the personal information of our users, customers and employees or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our Internet operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security. For example, so-called “spiders” have and can be used in efforts to copy our databases, including our database of technology products and prices. Our activities and the activities of third party contractors involve the storage and transmission of proprietary and personal information, such as computer software or credit card numbers. Accordingly, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We cannot assure you that contractual provisions attempting to limit our liability in these areas will be successful or enforceable, or that other parties will accept such contractual provisions as part of our agreements. There are a number of risks associated with international operations that could adversely affect our business. We maintain an international presence through a variety of international structures and business operations. We have wholly-owned operations in Australia, France, Germany, Japan, Russia, Singapore, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and a majority-owned joint venture in South Korea, which we will be exiting in 2007. We also have license arrangements in various other countries throughout the world. We operate our operations in China through a variety of entities some of which are owned by local employees in order to comply with local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements. We believe our current ownership structure complies with all existing Chinese laws. It is possible; however, that the Chinese government may change the applicable laws or take a different interpretation of existing laws. If we were found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations, we could be subject to fines and other financial penalties, have our licenses revoked, or be forced to discontinue our business entirely. There are additional risks inherent in doing business in international markets, such as the following: • weak economic conditions in foreign markets, especially in the business sector; • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences and in doing business with foreign entities and governments; • uncertainty of product acceptance in different countries; • longer collection cycles in some countries; • current, and unforeseen changes in, legal and regulatory requirements; • difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; • currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could reduce our revenues as determined under United States GAAP, increase our expenses, and dilute our operating margins; • difficulties in finding appropriate foreign licensees or joint venture partners; • potential adverse tax requirements; • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the United States; and 12 Table of Contents • foreign political and economic uncertainty. Our debt obligations are restrictive and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a substantial level of debt and interest expense. At December 31, 2006 we had $78.3 million of outstanding indebtedness, of which $73.9 million was classified as a current liability, including $60.0 million outstanding on a line of credit due in October 2007. In addition, the terms of our $60.0 million credit facility limit the circumstances under which we can incur additional debt and require that we achieve minimum levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization as well as minimum levels of unrestricted liquidity. The level of our indebtedness and the associated covenants, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate operating purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service interest and principal payments on our debt; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; • reduce funds available for use in our operations; • place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; • impair our ability to incur additional debt because of financial and other restrictive covenants; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or an increase in interest rates. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash, cash equivalents and investments of $75.6 million. We have prepared a forecast for 2007 which is based on our current expectations regarding revenue growth and associated operating expense and capital spending levels. If our actual results should differ materially from our expectations, our liquidity may be adversely impacted. If that were to occur, we would take steps to adjust our operating costs and capital expenditures to levels necessary to support our incoming business. We may also need to raise additional equity or borrow additional funds to achieve our longer-term business objectives. However, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various covenants of our $60.0 million credit facility, we would be in default, which would permit our lender to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness. Any default under our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and adversely impact our business. In addition, as a result of our delayed filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006, we will be ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3 for sale by us or resale by others until November 2007. We may use Form S-1 to raise capital or complete acquisitions, but doing so could increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. Our business, operating results and financial condition may be impacted by certain contingencies related to our guarantee of certain lease obligations. In conjunction with the ZDNet acquisition in 2000, we assumed a guarantee of the obligations of Ziff Davis Media Inc., an unaffiliated company and primary lessee, under a New York City office lease for a total of 399,773 square feet. This lease expires in 2019. The annual average cost per square foot is approximately thirty dollars over the remaining term of the lease. Ziff Davis Media Inc. currently occupies 144,682 square feet of this space. Ziff Davis Media Inc. subleases 205,951 square feet to The Bank of New York, FOJP Risk Management and Softbank. In addition, we currently sublease and occupy 49,140 square feet of the office space from Ziff Davis Media Inc. These leases and subleases fully cover the current monthly lease payments. As of December 31, 2006, the total lease payments remaining until the end of the lease term were $148.2 million, excluding the amounts attributable to our sublease with respect to the floor we occupy. If the financial condition of any of the sublessees or Ziff Davis Media Inc. were to deteriorate and thereby result in their inability to make lease payments, we would be required to make their lease payments under the guarantee. In addition, any expiration of any sublease, the potential resulting vacancy and the inability of Ziff Davis Media Inc. to make the primary lease payments could result in us being required to make lease payments on these vacancies. In connection with that guarantee, we have a letter of credit for $15.0 million outstanding as a security deposit. As there is no present obligation to make any payments in connection with this guarantee, we have not recorded any liability for this guarantee in our financial statements. 13 Table of Contents We have generated significant losses in the past and cannot assure you that we will report positive net income in the future. If our revenues do not increase, we may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to maintain positive net income. In the past, we have generated operating losses, as well as net losses. Although we generated positive net income in 2006, our ability to generate positive net income in 2007 or subsequent periods may be negatively impacted by: • an inability to decrease expenses in a timely manner to offset any revenues shortfalls or expenses associated with cost-reduction measures, such as severance, lease termination payments, contract termination costs or impairment charges; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities or an adverse outcome of an examination of our tax returns by tax authorities; • payments associated with contingent liabilities, such as litigation or our guarantee of the New York lease of Ziff Davis Media Inc., as described in more detail in a prior risk factor; or • any unusual transactions such as impairments or losses on investments. We will record substantial stock compensation expenses, which may have a material negative impact on our operating results for the foreseeable future. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the SFAS 123R for stock-based employee compensation. Our stock compensation expense was $19.8 million in 2006 and is also expected to be significant in future periods, which will have an adverse impact on our operating income and net income. Our option-pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the option’s expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the amount of our stock compensation expense. Our estimated stock compensation expenses may also be greater than expected if the fair value of our stock increases. In addition, an increase in the competitiveness of the market for qualified employees could cause us to issue more stock options or other securities than expected, which would increase our stock compensation expense. Changes in the interpretation of United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, may affect our reported results. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with GAAP, which is subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these principles could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect the reporting of transactions completed prior to the announcement of a change. Accounting rules regarding goodwill could make our reported results more volatile. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment. The evaluation is prepared based on our current and projected performance for our identified reporting units. The fair value of our reporting units is determined using a combination of the cash flow and market comparable approaches. If we conclude at any time that the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets for any of our reporting units exceeds its implied fair value, we will be required to recognize an impairment, which could materially reduce operating income and net income in the period in which such impairment is recognized. In the application of these methodologies, we are required to make estimates of future operating trends and judgments on discount rates and other variables. Actual future results and other assumed variables could differ from these estimates, including changes in the economy, the business environment in which we operate, and/or our own relative performance. Any differences in actual results compared to our estimates could result in further future impairments. Accordingly, our future earnings may be subject to significant volatility, particularly on a period-to-period basis. A substantial number of shares of common stock may be sold, which could affect the trading price of our common stock. We have a substantial number of shares of common stock subject to stock options. As of December 31, 2006, we had 13.2 million shares of common stock available for future grant under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans and 20.2 million issuable upon the future conversion of outstanding stock options. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, we have approximately 250 million shares of authorized but unissued shares of our common stock that are available for future sale. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock, or the availability of shares of our common stock for future sale, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued in connection with acquisitions or upon the exercise of stock options or warrants or the conversion of debt securities, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. The trading value of our common stock may be volatile and decline substantially. The trading price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations, which are a result of a number of events and factors, including: • quarterly variations in operating results; • announcements of innovations requiring significant expenditures; 14 Table of Contents • new products, strategic developments or business combinations by us or our competitors; • changes in our financial estimates or that of securities analysts; • announcements relating the appointment or resignation of a member of senior management; • restatements of previously issued financial results; • our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; • changes in recommendations of securities analysts; • developments in litigations or other governmental proceedings against us, or new litigations or governmental proceedings; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and • news reports, including those relating to trends in the Internet. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. These fluctuations may make it more difficult to use stock as currency to make acquisitions that might otherwise be advantageous, or to use stock options as a means to attract and retain employees. Any shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to our or analysts’ or investors’ expectations could cause, and has in the past caused an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we may not learn of such shortfalls or delays until late in the fiscal quarter, which could result in an even more immediate and greater decline in the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or change of control. Our stockholders might view any transaction of this type as being in their best interest since the transaction could result in a higher stock price than the current market price for our common stock. Among other things, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with the terms of each series to be fixed by our Board of Directors; • divide our Board of Directors into three classes so that only approximately one-third of the total number of directors is elected each year; • permit directors to be removed only for cause; and • specify advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition, with some exceptions, the Delaware General Corporation Law restricts or delays mergers and other business combinations between us and any stockholder that acquires 15% or more of our voting stock. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, particularly a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, which may occur in the future, could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operation, financial condition or liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 