Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing business environment that involves substantial risk and uncertainty, and these risks may change over time. The following discussion addresses some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause, or contribute to causing, actual results to differ materially from expectations. In evaluating our business, you should pay particular attention to the descriptions of risks and uncertainties described below. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Our future financial performance depends upon increased consumer acceptance and growth of sales of our products. We believe that most consumers are not generally aware of the existence and attributes of moissanite jewels and that the consumer market for moissanite jewels remains in the early stages of development. Total moissanite jewelry retail sales have historically been less than 1% of the total jewelry market. The degree of future market acceptance and demand are subject to a significant amount of uncertainty. Our future financial performance will depend, in part, upon greater consumer acceptance of moissanite jewels as an affordable, luxurious alternative to other gemstones, such as diamond, with exceptional brilliance, fire, luster, durability, and rarity l ike no other jewel available on the market. In addition, consumer acceptance may be affected by retail jewelers’ and jewelry manufacturers’ acceptance of moissanite jewels. We primarily market loose jewels, which jewelry distributors, manufacturers, and retailers set in jewelry and in turn distribute or sell to consumers. The quality, design, and workmanship of the jewelry settings selected by retail jewelers, which is not within our control, could affect both consumers’ perception and acceptance of our jewels and costs incurred by returns and markdowns. Thus, our future financial performance may be affected by: · the increasing interest and demand for moissanite jewelry at the consumer level; · the willingness and ability of our jewelry distributors and other jewelry suppliers, manufacturers, and designers to market and promote moissanite jewels to the retail jewelry trade; · the willingness of distributors, retailers, and others in the channel of distribution to purchase loose moissanite jewels and the willingness of manufacturers, designers, and retail jewelers to undertake setting of the loose jewels; · the ability of manufacturers, designers, and retail jewelers to select jewelry settings that encourage consumer acceptance of and demand for our jewels; · the ability of jewelry manufacturers and retail jewelers to set loose moissanite jewels in jewelry with high quality workmanship; and · the ability of retail jewelers to effectively market and sell moissanite jewelry to consumers. In addition, we are currently exploring opportunities in finished jewelry featuring our moissanite jewels that we would design, manufacture, and market under exclusive brands for sale to distributors and retailers in non-conflicting sales channels. Despite our efforts to pursue such a strategy in non-conflicting sales channels, some of our current customers may perceive us as a competitor and, in response, reduce their orders for our products. This reduction in orders could occur faster than our sales growth in this potential new sales initiative. We would also be dependent upon consumer acceptance of our finished jewelry designs and, should our products not receive greater market acceptance, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our company is in a state of flux and our success is contingent upon achieving multiple critical objectives. Our company has undergone significant changes in the past twelve months. On February 3, 2009, we entered into a management services agreement with Bird Capital Group, Inc., or BCG, that included the services of Richard A. Bird, a then current director, as our full-time non-employee Chief Executive Officer. On February 5, 2009, we ended our employment relationship with three executive officers: Dennis M. Reed, who had served as President and Chief Marketing Officer since March 2007 and principal executive officer since July 2008; Carl A. Mielke, Senior Vice President of Sales; and Steven L. Abate, Vice President of Operations. On June 7, 2009, Neil Boss, the Controller of our company since 2002, resigned as our principal financial officer and principal accounting officer effective on June 23, 2009, the date Timothy Krist was appointed our new Chief Financial Officer. On June 22, 2009, we dismissed Deloitte & Touche LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm and engaged FROST, PLLC, which subsequently merged with another firm to become Frazer Frost, LLP on January 1, 2010, as our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. On June 26, 2009, the Board appointed Dr. Charles D. Lein to serve as a director of the Company. On July 2, 2009, we, BCG, and Richard A. Bird mutually agreed to terminate the management services agreement with BCG, including the resignation of Mr. Bird as our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors. Our current Chairman of the Board, George R. Cattermole, was appointed our Interim Chief Executive Officer on July 17, 2009 while the search for a permanent C hief Executive Officer was being conducted by our Board. On October 12, 2009, we appointed Thomas G. Pautz as our Vice President, Sales and Marketing. On November 5, 2009, we appointed Randy N. McCullough as our new President and Chief Executive Officer and H. Marvin Beasley as a new member of our Board of Directors. These changes have been disruptive to our business as the new personnel and independent registered public accounting firm become acclimated to our processes and our unique business circumstances. 12 Table of Contents Our business strategy is also currently being restructured under the new management team to more effectively position moissanite against diamonds and diamond substitutes in the highly competitive jewelry market while also continuing to identify opportunities to reduce operating expenses. We believe our success to a significant extent is reliant upon on our new executive management team’s ability to develop and implement a successful business strategy; to successfully lead and motivate our employees; and to work effectively with other members of our management team, our Board of Directors, and other stakeholders in our company. There can be no assurance that our changes in management will lead to an improvement in our results of operations. If the leadership transition is not successful, we may experience further disruption to our operations, which may have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. A further decline in sales could continue to have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. We have experienced a declining trend in our annual sales in recent years: $40.7 million in 2006; $27.8 million in 2007; $14.7 million in 2008; and $8.3 million in 2009. These sales declines and the resulting operating losses in 2008 and 2009 have adversely impacted our relationships with our suppliers and customers, and they have affected our ability to retain key employees. Due to the large inventory position we currently have, we reduced our manufacturing levels in 2008 and, with the exception of custom orders, ceased manufacturing in 2009. We expect our make-to-stock manufacturing to be very limited until our inventory position is more in line with our sales. We made no raw material purchases in 2009, and deferred purchase commitments have resulted in significant price increases that will likely affect future gross margin percentages. We have no assurance that the quality of the raw material crystals we receive in the future will not be affected by the reduced purchase levels or that our raw material suppliers will be able to timely deliver increased quantities to us should we require a return to a higher level of purchases. Our business and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result of general economic and market conditions, including the current economic crisis. Global financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in the financial markets and the adverse global economic conditions, and if the current uncertainty continues or economic conditions further deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The c onsequences of such adverse effects could include interruptions or delays in our suppliers’ performance of our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers and/or suppliers. Luxury products, such as fine jewelry, are discretionary purchases for consumers. The recent reduction in consumer discretionary spending, largely attributed to the conditions described above, has affected our industry more significantly than many other industries. Consumer discretionary spending is strongly affected by economic factors outside our control, including the condition of financial markets, consumer credit availability, prevailing interest rates, energy costs, employment levels, salary levels, and tax rates. A continued reduction in discretionary consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We expect to remain dependent upon Cree for the supply of our SiC crystals for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to obtain sufficient, high-quality SiC crystals from Cree and we have a significant increase in demand for our jewel, then we may not be able to meet that demand. Cree has certain proprietary rights relating to its process for growing large single crystals of SiC and its process for growing near-colorless SiC crystals. Under the Cree Exclusive Supply Agreement, we are obligated to buy from Cree, and Cree is obligated to sell to us, at least 50%, by dollar volume, of our requirements for SiC material for the production of gemstones in each calendar quarter through June 2015. In February 2005, in an attempt to diversify our supply base, we entered into the Norstel Exclusive Supply Agreement, which was amended in April 2008 and October 2008, as a secondary supplier of SiC crystals. However, Norstel has not demonstrated to date the ability to consistently grow high-quality SiC crystals that meet our requirements. Cree is currently providing SiC crystals sufficient to meet our requirements. However, there can be no assurance that Cree will be able to continue to produce and supply us with SiC crystals of sufficient quality, sizes, and volumes that we desire or that we will successfully negotiate purchase commitments at acceptable prices that enable us to manage our inventories and raw material costs effectively. 13 Table of Contents Norstel may contest our position regarding our purchase obligations under the Norstel Exclusive Supply Agreement. As part of the Norstel Exclusive Supply Agreement, we advanced Norstel $400,000 in 2005 for the purchase of certain equipment. In December 2009, we received notification from Norstel that it had reached an agreement in principle with a new investor. This agreement was conditioned upon Norstel initiating a company reorganization that would involve unsecured creditors’ acceptance of a composition offer to receive 25% of outstanding debts as payment in full. Though we did not consent to the composition offer, we received notice in January 2010 that the District Court of Norrköping had approved it, and we received a cash payment of $56,127 in Fe bruary 2010. It is our position that, as a result of the failure of Norstel to repay the advance in full as stipulated in the Norstel Exclusive Supply Agreement, we have no further purchase obligations under the agreement. There can be no assurance that Norstel may not contest this, which may result in legal defense costs that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are currently substantially dependent on a limited number of distributors and jewelry manufacturers for the sale of our jewels in North America. We anticipate that the majority of the moissanite jewels that we sell in North America will be distributed through a limited number of manufacturers and distributors, and therefore, we are substantially dependent upon these companies for distribution of moissanite jewels in North America. During 2009, our five largest customers accounted for 51% of net sales, one of which represented 19% of net sales. In late 2007, we terminated our manufacturing agreement with K&G Creations (one of our largest customers in 2007), and in 2008, we terminated our manufacturing agreement with Reeves Park (one of our largest customers in 2007 and 2008). This disruption in our distribution model was significant and we have not yet replaced the sales volume lost as a result of these events. We face intense competition in the worldwide jewelry industry. The jewelry industry is highly competitive and we compete with numerous other jewelry products. In addition, we face competition from treated diamonds, synthetic diamonds, and companies developing other synthetic jewelry technologies. A substantial number of companies supply products to the jewelry industry, many of which we believe have greater financial resources than we do. Competitors could develop new or improved technologies that may render the pricing point for moissanite noncompetitive, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The financial difficulties or insolvency of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect results. We are subject to a concentration of credit risk amongst our major customers and a default by any of these customers on their debts to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Future sales and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of our customers. We estimate an allowance for accounts for which collectibility is at risk and this allowance adversely impacts profitability. In the event customers experience greater than anticipated financial difficulties or insolvency, we expect profitability to be adversely impacted by our failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. Given the current economic environment, constrained access to capital and general market contractions may heighten our exposure to customer default. We are subject to certain risks due to our international distribution channels and vendors. We currently have approximately 25 international distributors for moissanite jewels covering portions of Western Europe, Australia, India, and certain countries in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. Our long-term strategy is to expand the number of international markets for our products. In addition, we expect to use certain companies based outside the United States to facet our moissanite jewels and to manufacture finished jewelry. Due to our reliance on development of foreign markets and use of foreign vendors, we are subject to the risks of conducting business outside of the United States. These risks include the following: · the adverse effects on United States-based companies operating in foreign markets that might result from war, terrorism, changes in diplomatic, trade, or business relationships or other political, social, religious, or economic instability; · the continuing adverse economic effects of the global financial crisis; · unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; · delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses; · tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; and · the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and other factors beyond our control. Additionally, while the majority of our foreign transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars, foreign currency fluctuations could impact demand for our products or the ability of our foreign suppliers to continue to perform. 14 Table of Contents Further, some of these distributors operate relatively small businesses and may not have the financial stability to assure their continuing presence in their markets. There can be no assurance that the foregoing factors will not adversely affect our operations in the future or require us to modify our anticipated business practices. We rely upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We have United States product and method patents for moissanite jewels under which we believe that we have broad, exclusive rights to manufacture, use, and sell moissanite jewels in the United States. We have these same patents in a number of foreign jurisdictions. We believe that these patents create substantial technological barriers to our potential competitors. At the present time, we are also dependent on Cree’s technology for the production of SiC crystals. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to or licensed by or to us or Cree will provide any significant commercial protection, that we or Cree will have sufficient resources to protect our respective patents, that any additional patents will be issued in the future, or that any existing or future patents will be upheld by a court should we or Cree seek to enforce our respective rights against an infringer. Litigation to determine the validity of any third party’s claims could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor. In the event of an adverse result of any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses for, and pay royalties on th e use of, the technology subject to the litigation. We have no assurance that we would be successful in such development or that any such license would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Our former South Korean patent is no longer valid as a result of a ruling by the South Korean Patent Court, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur similar outcomes in the future. In addition, the existence of valid patents does not prevent other companies from independently developing competing technologies. Existing producers of SiC crystals or others may refine existing processes for growing SiC crystals or develop new technologies for growing large single crystals of SiC or colorless SiC crystals in a manner that does not infringe patents owned or licensed by us or Cree. As a result of the foregoing factors, existing and potential competitors may be able to develop products that are competitive with or superior to our products, and such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Governmental regulation and oversight might adversely impact our operations. We are subject to governmental regulations in the manufacture and sale of moissanite jewels. In particular, the FTC has the power to restrict the offer and sale of products that could deceive or have the tendency or effect of misleading or deceiving purchasers or prospective purchasers with regard to their type, kind, quality, character, origin, or other characteristics. We may be under close scrutiny both by governmental agencies and by competitors in the gemstone industry, any of which may challenge our promotion and marketing of our moissanite jewel products. If our production or marketing of moissanite jewels is challenged by governmental agencies or competitors, or if regulations are issued that restrict our ability to market our products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Sales of moissanite jewelry could be dependent upon the pricing of precious metals, which is beyond our control. Any increases in the market price of precious metals (primarily gold) could affect the pricing and sales of jewelry incorporating moissanite jewels. The majority of price increases in precious metals are passed on to the consumer in the form of higher prices for finished jewelry. These higher prices could have a negative impact on the sell-through of moissanite jewelry at the retail level. From the beginning of 2006 through 2009, the price of gold has increased significantly (approximately 110%), resulting in higher retail price points for gold jewelry. This has had a negative impact on both sales of moissanite jewelry and the jewelry industry as a whol e. Some anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents, agreements, and plans may delay or prevent a takeover of our company .A number of provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws impact matters of corporate governance and the rights of shareholders. Certain of these provisions have an anti-takeover effect and may delay or prevent takeover attempts not first approved by the Board of Directors (including takeovers that certain shareholders may deem to be in their best interests). These provisions also could delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors or the assumption of control by shareholders. We believe that these provisions are appropriate to protect our interests and the interests of all of our shareholders. Under the terms of the Cree Exclusive Supply Agreement, we are prohibited from entering into an exclusive 15 Table of Contents marketing or distribution agreement with DeBeers or its affiliates or any party whose primary business is the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of diamond gemstones or any non-gemstone and non-jewelry industry competitor of Cree. The agreement also prohibits us from entering into certain merger, acquisition, sale of assets or similar transactions with a prohibited party. These provisions of the agreement could limit the price that third parties might be willing to pay in the future for some or all of the shares of our common stock. In addition, this agreement could prevent us from entering into certain potentially profitable transactions with such prohibited parties. On February 21, 1999, we adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan, or the Rights Plan, under which all shareholders of record as of March 8, 1999, received rights to purchase shares of a new series of preferred stock. Each share of common stock issued after March 8, 1999 has received the same rights. The Rights Plan, as modified by an amendment dated February 18, 2009, remains in full force and effect. The Rights Plan is designed to enable all of our shareholders to realize the full value of their investment and to provide for fair and equal treatment for all shareholders in the event that an unsolicited attempt is made to acquire us. The adoption of the Rights Plan is intended as a means to guard against abusive takeover tactics and is not in response to any particular proposal. The rights, which expire in 2019, will be exercisable only if a person or group acquires 20% or more of our common stock or announces a tender offer for 20% or more of the common stock. If a person or group acquires 20% or more of our common stock, all shareholders except the purchaser will be entitled to acquire our common stock at a 50% discount. The effect will be to discourage acquisitions of more than 20% of our common stock without negotiations with our B oard of Directors. The rights will trade with our common stock, unless and until they are separated upon the occurrence of certain future events. Our Board of Directors may redeem the rights prior to the expiration of a specified period following the acquisition of more than 20% of our common stock. If we fail to evaluate, implement, and integrate strategic opportunities successfully, our business may suffer. From time to time we evaluate strategic opportunities available to us for product, technology, or business acquisitions or dispositions. If we choose to make acquisitions or dispositions, we face certain risks, such as failure of an acquired business to meet our performance expectations, diversion of management attention, retention of existing customers of our current and acquired business, and difficulty in integrating or separating a business’s operations, personnel, and financial and operating systems. We may not be able to successfully address these risks or any other problems that ar ise from future acquisitions or dispositions. Any failure to successfully evaluate strategic opportunities and address risks or other problems that arise related to any acquisition or disposition could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 