ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. This report contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this report. Certain Tax and Legal Matters Related to Independent Contractors Substantially all of our drivers at July 31, 2010 were independent contractors as opposed to employees of the Company. The Company does not pay or withhold any federal or state employment tax with respect to or on behalf of independent contractors. From time to time, taxing authorities in the United States and Canada have sought to assert that independent contractors in the transportation industry, including those utilized by the Company, are employees, rather than independent contractors. The Company believes that the independent contractors utilized by the Company are not employees under existing interpretations of federal (U.S. and Canadian), state and provincial laws. However, there can be no assurance that federal (U.S. and Canadian), state, provincial authorities or independent contractors will not challenge this position, or that other laws or regulations, including tax laws, or interpretations thereof, will not change. If, as a result of any of the foregoing, the Company were required to pay withholding taxes and pay for and administer added employee benefits to these drivers, the Company’s operating costs would increase. Additionally, if the Company is required to pay back-up withholding with respect to amounts previously paid to such drivers, it may also be required to pay penalties or be subject to other liabilities as a result of incorrect classification of such drivers. Any of the foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, and/or cause the Company to restate financial information from prior periods. See “Business — Services” and “ Business — Independent Contractors.” Certain states, including California and Massachusetts, have alleged that the Company has misclassified its drivers as independent contractors rather than employees. The California Employment Development Department conducted an employment tax audit of the Company’s California operations in 2006. Based on its conclusion that certain independent contractors used by the Company should be reclassified as employees, a Notice of Assessment was issued by the EDD in April 2007. The Company believes that the independent contractors were properly classified and has filed a Petition for Reassessment, however, the Company recorded a liability of $0.8 million in fiscal year 2006. The California Employment Development Department has recently commenced an additional audit to include subsequent years. The Company is currently the subject of a wage/hour examination in Massachusetts related to the alleged misclassification of independent contractors. The Company is currently a party to lawsuit brought by certain independent contractors in California alleging, among other things, that the Company has misclassified its drivers in California as independent contractors rather than employees and seeking recovery of overtime pay and other benefits and expense reimbursements. We believe that our classification of independent contractors is proper under applicable law. In the event of an adverse determination in these actions, the Company could be required to pay overtime pay and other benefits and expense reimbursements to former and current independent contractors who are members of the class for prior periods and, in the case of current independent contractors, prospectively. To the extent that we are required to pay our independent contractors overtime pay and other benefits and expense reimbursements, our operating costs will increase, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. See “Business – Services” and “Business – Independent Contractors” and “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. Loss of a Key Customer May Adversely Impact our Business The Company’s five largest customers represent over 20% of the Company’s consolidated sales. The loss of any of these customers may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Are Dependent on Availability of Independent Contractors We are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain independent contractors who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the needs of our operations. We compete in markets where unemployment has 8 Table of Contents traditionally been relatively low and the competition for independent contractors is intense. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our pool of available independent contractors to keep pace with demands for delivery services. We have no assurance that qualified independent contractors will continue to be available in sufficient numbers and on terms acceptable to us. Our inability to attract and retain qualified independent contractors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Global Economic Conditions Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business and Financial Results Most sectors of the economy have been or could be adversely impacted by slowdowns in economic activity. Any resulting decreases in customer traffic or average value per transaction will negatively impact the Company’s financial performance as reduced sales result in operations de-leveraging which creates downward pressure on margins that could potentially have a material adverse impact on the Company’s liquidity and capital resources, including our ability to raise additional capital if needed, the ability of banks to honor draws on our credit facility, or otherwise negatively impact the Company’s business and financial results. We Depend Upon Key Personnel for Our Continued Operations Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and performance of certain key members of our management. The loss of the services of any of these key employees could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success and plans for growth also depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel in all areas of our business. There is strong competition for skilled personnel in the same-day delivery and logistics businesses. We Are Dependent Upon Independent Contractors Represented by International Labor Unions in Canada Approximately 70% of our independent contractor drivers in Canada are represented by major international labor unions. We have never had a work stoppage and management believes our relationships with those unions are good. Should we experience a work stoppage in the future, this could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See “Business – Independent Contractors.” Competition May Adversely Affect Our Results The market for same-day delivery and logistics services has been and is expected to remain highly competitive. Competition is often intense, particularly for basic delivery services. High fragmentation and low barriers to entry characterize the industry. We compete with other companies in the industry for customers and also for qualified independent contractors. Because of the low cost of entry, companies that do not currently operate delivery and logistics businesses may enter the industry in the future. See “Business – Competition” in Part I. We Are Highly Dependent Upon Our Technology Infrastructure We rely heavily on technology to operate our transportation and business networks, and any disruption to our technology infrastructure or our website could harm our operations and our reputation among our customers. Our ability to attract and retain customers and to compete effectively depends in part upon the sophistication and reliability of our technology network, including our ability to provide features of service that are important to our customers. Any disruption to our technology infrastructure or our web site could adversely impact our customer service, our ability to receive orders and respond promptly to delivery assignments which may result in increased costs. While we have invested and will continue to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruptions and the resulting adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Fluctuations of Foreign Exchange Rates May Adversely Affect Our Results About one-third of the Company’s operations are conducted in Canada. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. and Canadian dollar result in fluctuations in reported amounts from Canadian operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The Canadian dollar is the functional currency for Canadian operations; therefore, any change in the exchange rate will affect our reported sales, expenses and net income. Historically, we have not entered into hedging transactions with respect to our foreign currency exposure, but may do so in the future. We cannot be assured that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” in Part 7 of this Form 10-K. An Increase in Claims May Expose Us to Losses As of July 31, 2010, the Company utilized the services of approximately 3,700 independent contractors, who may occasionally be involved in accidents or other activities that may give rise to liability claims. We currently carry liability insurance with a per-occurrence and an aggregate limit of $30 million. Our independent contractors are required to maintain liability insurance of at least $250,000 per accident or higher amounts as required. The Company also has insurance policies covering property (owned, leased and under consignment to Dynamex), which coverage includes all independent contractors. We make no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance at acceptable levels and costs in the future or that our insurer will be solvent at the time of settlement of an insured claim. We make no assurance that we have the proper amount of coverage – whether under the liability insurance or the surety bonds – relative to potential claims. If we were to experience a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, liability claims, workers’ compensation claims or unfavorable resolutions of claims, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Rising Fuel Costs May Adversely Impact Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations The independent contractors we engage are responsible for all vehicle expense including maintenance, insurance, fuel and all other operating costs. To offset the impact of fuel price increases on our independent contractors, we make every reasonable effort to adjust customer billings to include the higher cost of fuel. If future fuel cost adjustments are insufficient to offset independent contractors’ costs, we may be unable to attract a sufficient number of independent contractors, and this may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to Maintain Permits and Licensing May Adversely Impact Our Ability to Operate Although certain aspects of the transportation industry have been significantly deregulated, our delivery operations are still subject to various federal (U.S. and Canadian), state, provincial and local laws, ordinances and regulations that in many instances require certificates, permits and licenses. If we fail to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses, or if we fail to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations, we may incur substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct certain of our operations. See “Business — Regulation.” Technological Advances May Adversely Impact Our Business Technological advances in the nature of facsimile, electronic mail and electronic signature capture have affected the market for on-demand document delivery services. Although we have shifted our focus to logistics and the distribution of items that cannot be faxed or emailed, there can be no assurance that these or other technologies will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. We May Need Additional Financing to Pursue Our Acquisition Strategy We intend to pursue acquisitions that are complementary to our existing operations. We may be required to incur additional debt and issue additional securities that may potentially result in dilution to current holders and also 10 Table of Contents may result in increased goodwill, intangible assets and amortization expense. We have no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing if necessary, or that such financing can be obtained on terms we will deem acceptable. As a result, we may be unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy. See “Business —Industry Overview” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K Factors Beyond Our Control May Affect the Volatility of Our Stock Price Prices for our common stock will be determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us and general economic and market conditions. Variations in our operating results, general trends in the industry and other factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition, general trends and developments in the industry, government regulation and other factors could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. The stock market has, on occasion, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often particularly affected market prices for smaller companies and that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies, and the price of our common stock could be affected by such fluctuations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 