Risk Factors Potential investors should carefully consider the following specific risk factors along with the other information contained in this annual report before deciding to invest in the SGL Shares. Each of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, each of these risks could cause our share price to decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks not known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. The order in which the following risk factors are presented is not an indication of the likelihood of their occurrence. Our business is affected by the uncertainties of economic and political conditions. Conditions in domestic and global economies have a strong impact on our business operations. Numerous factors, such as global or regional political conflicts, have a continuous impact on macroeconomic parameters and the international capital markets. The uncertainty of economic and political conditions can have a direct impact on the demand for our products and can also influence our planning and forecasting ability. This is particularly the case for our products where we operate under global market conditions, such as graphite electrodes for the steel industry, cathodes for the aluminum industry, carbon electrodes for the silicon-metal industry, graphite specialties supplied to the semiconductor industry and industrial applications including carbon-ceramic brake discs supplied to the automotive industry, process equipment for the chemical industry and structural parts and carbon fibers supplied to the aviation thermoplast and windmill industry. We operate globally and face unpredictable international economic conditions, government policies, regulatory controls and changes in public policy that could adversely affect our business. We operate more than 38 manufacturing facilities, which are located in Europe, North America and Asia and sell our products in approximately 80 countries. In 2006, sales revenue of our products outside Germany accounted for approximately 85% of our total sales revenue. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, declines in regional or global economic activity, limitations, if any, on the conversion of foreign currencies into euro, and the possible imposition of investment and other restrictions by governments. In addition, our business is subject to changes in the public policies of individual countries or states, including potential increases in taxes and tax rates. We must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls on the testing, manufacture and marketing of our products. In some countries, including the United States and member states of the European Union, regulatory controls have become increasingly demanding. We expect that this trend will continue. The new EU regulation concerning the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals (“REACH”), imposes a new regulatory framework for the manufacture, importation and use of chemical substances in the EU which may entail a significant increase in the testing and assessment of basic chemicals and chemical intermediates, leading to increased costs and reduced operating margins for these products. This new regulatory regime became effective on June 1, 2007. We cannot assure you that changes in policies or regulations will not harm our operating results or financial condition in the future. The industries that use graphite electrodes can be regarded as cyclical, and declines in demand for graphite electrodes could adversely affect our business. In 2006, we derived approximately 48% of our sales revenue from the sale of graphite electrodes, our core business. We sell our graphite electrodes primarily to the electric arc furnace 9Back to Contents (“EAF”) steel industry. The EAF industry is global and customers are located in every major geographic market. As a result, the demand for and the price of graphite electrodes are affected by changes in global and regional economic conditions. At the beginning of the decade, several global macroeconomic factors including the Asian financial crises of 1998 to 1999, the structural crisis in the U.S. and Japanese steel industries in 2001 and worldwide recessionary trends in 2002 adversely affected the graphite electrode industry, causing oversupply and price erosion. Insolvencies of graphite manufacturers in both Germany and in the United States started another consolidation phase of the industry, including site closures. Due to this consolidation and reduction of capacity as well as the growing demand of the steel industry from 2003 until 2006, the graphite electrode industry has returned to profitability. The market for graphite electrodes, particularly in Europe and North America, is mature and expands in line with overall economic growth and with an increase in the proportion of EAF steel to total steel production. In addition, demand for our graphite electrodes sold to the EAF steel industries may be adversely affected by technological improvements in those electrodes as well as in the manufacturing operations of our customers, which reduce the rate of consumption or use of our electrodes for a given level of production. Since the early 1980s there has been a steady gradual decrease in “specific consumption” — the quantity of graphite electrodes consumed per metric ton of steel produced — due to improved efficiency in EAF steelmaking processes and equipment design. Since the mid-1990s, increased EAF steel production has offset the decrease in specific consumption, resulting in steady to slightly increasing demand for graphite electrodes. Des pite the overall long-term trend, the year-to-year fluctuations in the demand for graphite electrodes have been significant. We cannot assure you that future improvements in steelmaking processes and technology or a decline in EAF steel production will not result in a net decrease in demand for graphite electrodes. A significant drop in demand for our graphite electrodes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may encounter supply shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy. Raw materials are the largest component of our cost of sales, followed by personnel costs and energy costs. We are exposed to commodity price risks through our dependence on various raw materials, such as petroleum coke, coal tar pitch, petroleum pitch, anthracite coal PAN-based precursor and natural graphite flakes as well as energy supplies. The availability of high-quality raw materials is limited, and the market for our primary raw material petroleum coke, in particular needle coke, is dominated by a small number of large suppliers with substantial market power, which may undergo further consolidation. Most of our procurement agreements with key suppliers have a term of only one year, with prices being renegotiated upon renewal. Where we have supply agreements with a term of more than one year, prices are variable and depend on the development of specified parameters, including our suppliers’ raw material prices. In addition, the availability and price o f raw materials and energy may be affected by new regulations, suppliers’ allocations, interruptions in production by suppliers, general market conditions and natural disasters. There can be no assurance that the raw materials we require will remain available in adequate quantities. We also face risks arising from rising raw material costs. Our raw material costs increased on average by approximately 15% in 2006 compared with 2005. High energy prices also continue to significantly influence our costs of production. We cannot assure you that we will be able to mitigate any future price increases for raw materials and energy through increased efficiency or cost-savings. A substantial increase in raw material or energy prices, or a continued interruption in raw material or energy supplies, could substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. We face substantial pricing pressure from our competitors. The industries in which we operate are highly consolidated and, thus, competitive. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and customer service. Most of our production process is capital intensive, which results in high fixed costs. The pricing pressure thus has a direct impact on our results. In addition, price decreases can be aggravated by temporary imbalances in supply and demand, with an oversupply in stagnating markets. In 2006, the average price of our graphite electrodes increased by 10% in the markets where graphite electrodes are priced in euro and 22% in markets where they are priced in U.S. dollars compared to 2005. The increases in 2005 compared to 10Back to Contents 2004 were 5% and 13%, respectively. Despite these price increases, graphite electrodes, in particular, are subject to strong price competition in general. Our market share could be adversely affected if we were forced to increase prices more than our competitors, or a competitor reduces prices, or if we decide to maintain profit margins rather than market share or pursue other competitive strategies. Continuing competition could either prevent us from raising prices, as necessary to offset higher production costs, force price reductions, or reduce our sales volumes and revenues. It could also require us to spend more for sales, marketing and research and development. Any of these developments could substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a capital-intensive industry which involves significant investments, in particular for the maintenance and expansion of our production facilities. These investments can give rise to risks of delay and to construction and other execution problems. The manufacturing of carbon and graphite products, such as graphite electrodes, requires significant capital expenditures for the purchase and set-up of specific machinery and equipment. Any new equipment must initially run through a start-up and qualification process in order to reach standard operating procedures required by us and our customers. In addition, day-to-day operations require continuing maintenance programs to keep plants and machinery in full operation. Such capital expenditures and maintenance programs require significant amounts of cash. The failure of manufacturing equipment could cause significant problems for a plant and could result in our inability to deliver products in the required quality or at the required time to our customers, which could in turn adversely affect our financial condition and result of operations. We have made substantial investments in new businesses in the past several years in order to diversify our product portfolio. The success of these investments depends on the successful development and commercialization of new products, in particular in the Carbon Fiber & Composites business unit. In line with our product portfolio diversification, we have entered into new businesses — in particular with our high technology business unit Carbon Fiber & Composites — in which we have little experience and which are subject to rapid product developments and changes. In recent years we have made substantial investments in our Carbon Fiber & Composites business unit, with the aim of increasing the share of our revenues that we generate through our Advanced Materials business area. We anticipate continued increases in our research and development expenses arising from these investments in 2007 and 2008. For the past three years, the sales revenue of our former SGL Technologies business area (now largely corresponding to our new Carbon Fiber & Composites business unit) have fluctuated, and we have incurred net operating losses in recent years, due to significant start-up expenses and commissioning costs. Our ability to effectively compete in this and other new business areas will depend on our successfully developing, customizing, and producing innovative products and designs at competitive prices, and on gaining market acceptance for these products and designs. Any growth in sales and any increase in profitability in the Advanced Materials business area will depend largely on whether and how fast our newly developed products will be able to prevail in the market. Our competitors in these new business areas may have greater technological expertise and superior research and development infrastructure than we do, or may be more innovative in responding to changing technologies and customer needs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in these new markets. Thus, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate a satisfactory return on the investments in our Carbon Fiber & Composites business unit. We may not be able to protect the intellectual property which may be important for the development of our Advanced Materials business area. Intellectual property rights are important for the development of the business, in particular in our Advanced Materials business area. In 2006, approximately one third of the revenues in our former Specialties business area was generated by products that were developed in the previous four years. The new product lines that we are developing in our Carbon Fibers & Composites business unit also rely to a significant extent on such proprietary rights and information. We cannot assure you that any patents or trademarks that we obtain will adequately protect the covered products and technologies. Nor can we assure you that our confidentiality covenants and agreements will 11Back to Contents adequately protect our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information not covered by patents or trademarks, or that others will not obtain this information through independent development or other legal means. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our activities will not infringe on the proprietary rights of others or that we will be able to obtain licenses, on reasonable terms or otherwise, for the use of the technology that we need. In addition, we cannot assure you that our proprietary rights and information will not become obsolete as a result of the development of new technologies by our competitors. If we fail to obtain the necessary intellectual property rights or to protect our proprietary information, or if we infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, the business, financial condition or results of operations of our Graphite Materials & Systems or Carbon Fibers & Composites businesses could suffer significant harm. Our debt, along with the obligations and covenants contained in our financing arrangements, limits our financial and operating flexibility. The conditions of our €200.0 million senior secured facility (the “Senior Facility”), as well as the conditions of the €200.0 million senior floating rate notes (the “Corporate Bonds”) limit our financial and operating flexibility. In particular, these agreements (see detailed description in Item 10, “Additional Information — Material Contracts”) place limits on our ability to incur new debt, grant security to third persons, dispose of material assets, take organizational measures such as mergers, changes of corporate form, joint ventures or similar transactions, or to enter into transactions with related parties. Other limitations generally concern the payment of dividends and the repurchase of own shares. In addition, we must meet certain financial covenants in the context of our financing agreements. Our substantial debt and our compliance with the covenants contained in our financing agreements could have a materia l adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we continue to require significant funds for our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate or obtain sufficient funds needed for our future operations and our other cash requirements, or that we will meet all loan covenants and other obligations in connection with our present financing arrangements. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our financial liabilities as they mature or that we will be able to negotiate the same or better terms in future loan agreements. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not have to incur additional debt in the future. Incurring such additional debt could further increase the risks regarding our debt and financing arrangements. For a detailed description of our debt, you should read the discussion in Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” Our ability to generate sufficient cash to service our debt depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on or repay our debt and to fund our working capital requirements depends on the availability of financial resources. Our ability to generate cash will depend on our future operating performance, as well as on general economic, financial, competitive, market and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, our ability to generate adequate cash will depend at least in part on: • a price increase in the carbon and graphite electrode industry, as well as our ability to maintain and grow our sales revenues in most of our business segments; • our ability to contain costs and implement further cost savings through our restructuring programs and cost saving initiatives; and • our ability to realize earnings from new technologies and products. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debts as they become due or to fund our other liquidity requirements. We are party to several antitrust court proceedings. In the past several years, we have faced various court actions and investigations in connection with antitrust violations and have been assessed substantial fines by the U.S. Department of Justice, the Canadian antitrust authorities and the European Commission for price fixing in the graphite 12Back to Contents electrode industry, the specialty graphite industry and electrical and mechanical carbon and graphite products. As of December 31, 2005, all fines raised by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Canadian antitrust authorities have been paid in full. In addition, European antitrust fines have all either been paid or fully provided for and fully funded. In addition, we have made significant payments in the past several years in defending and settling a number of civil suits seeking damages as a result of violations of antitrust laws. The majority of these civil suits have been concluded by now. See “Business Description — Legal proceedings — Civil suits resulting from antitrust violations.” We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the remaining proceedings. Despite intensive internal legal training and establishing compliance policies, we cannot assure you that we or certain of our subsidiaries or affiliates will not become subject to antitrust investigations by the relevant authorities and will not be required to pay additional fines or be subject to claims for damages from third parties for violations of applicable antitrust laws. An unfavorable result in any of these future or current proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our pension and retirement obligations could significantly exceed the existing provisions and funding status of these obligations. We are obligated to pay our employees certain benefits, including retirement payments, life insurance and medical insurance following the termination of their employment. These benefit plans consist of both defined contribution and defined benefit plans and vary based on the country in which we maintain such plans. Changes and movements in the equity, fixed income, real estate and other markets could significantly change the valuation of the assets of our plans. A change in the yield assumptions used also has an impact on the calculation of the discounted present value of our pension obligations. In addition, changes in pension and retirement benefit plan assumptions, such as rates for compensation increase, retirement rates, mortality rates, health care cost trends and other factors can lead to significant increases or decreases in our pension or post-retirement benefit obligations. This would affect the reported funded status of our plans and therefore could also negatively affect net periodic pension cost, future cash contributions and equity. For further details on the funding status of pensions and other retirement benefit obligations see Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We cannot assure you that any future expenses or cash contributions that become necessary under our pension or retirement benefit plans will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental matters could result in significant increases in costs. Our operations are subject to various risks associated with manufacturing, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. We are also subject to numerous domestic and foreign laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge and disposal of potentially hazardous substances and wastes (see Item 4, “Information on the Company — Government Regulation”). Environmental and health laws and regulations could lead to the possibility of substantial fines, revocation of applicable permits or orders for environmental cleanup. Any violations of these laws or regulations, or any adjustments to comply with changing laws or regulations, could result in significant expenditures. Environmental laws in particular have continuously been tightened in the past several years. As a result, we cannot assure you that a known, previously unknown or future contamination event, or any new, more stringent regulations or their enforcement by the relevant authorities will not increase our environmental costs in the future. A significant increase in environmental liabilities or costs could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Prolonged work stoppages due to labor disputes could adversely affect our business. Approximately two-thirds of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although we believe that we have satisfactory relations with our works councils and unions, we cannot assure you that we will reach new agreements on satisfactory terms when existing collective bargaining agreements expire. Nor can we assure you that we would reach such new agreements 13Back to Contents without work stoppages, strikes or similar industrial actions. If industrial actions substantially obstructed our manufacturing operations for an extended period, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer material harm. Disruptions of the business operations, strikes or similar measures at our customers’ or suppliers’ sites could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to currency exchange rate risks and interest rate risks. We generate a significant portion of our sales revenue in U.S. dollars. As a result, a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to the euro will have a negative impact on our sales revenue, which are recorded in euro. Compared to the sales revenue that we generate in U.S. dollars, we incur a relatively small portion of our cost of sales in U.S. dollars. As a result, a U.S. dollar that is weak compared to the euro will have a negative impact on our gross profit and therefore on our results. A medium- to long-term decline in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and other currencies could also weaken our competitive position as compared to competitors who incur a relatively larger portion of their cost of sales in U.S. dollars. After the value of the dollar declined relative to the euro during 2004, reaching a low-point at the end of 2004, the U.S. dollar strengthened against the euro in 2005, weakened again in 2006. We cannot predict any trends for the future. We have entered into hedging arrangements for the majority of our U.S. dollar transaction exposure in Europe for 2007 to reduce the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. However, these hedging arrangements can protect us only to a limited extent against a long-term decline of the U.S. dollar. See also Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Overview — Currency exchange exposure.” Changes in tax laws or regulations could result in lower earnings and cash flows. We operate in a large number of countries and therefore are subject to different tax laws and regulations. Changes in tax laws or regulations and results from tax audits by fiscal authorities could result in higher tax expenses and cash payments. Furthermore, changes in tax laws or regulations could impact our tax liabilities as well as our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Based upon a draft version of a Corporate Tax Reform Act 2008 by the German Ministry of Finance dated March 14, 2007, debt financing of companies which are subject to German tax would be limited by a so-called modified interest barrier rule (modifizierte Zinsschranke). As a general rule, the deduction of interest expenses exceeding interest income is limited to 30% of taxable income as increased by interest expense and as reduced by interest income (unless, inter alia, such interest expenses exceed interest income by less than €1.0 million). Non-deductible interest expenses would be carried forward and would generally be deductible in subsequent fiscal years, subject to limitations similar to those applicable in the current year. There apply certain exceptions, e.g. a test which relates to the overall group’s equity ratio (so-called escape clause) and which is still under discussion. It remains unclear whether and in which form the envisaged legislative changes will ultimately become effective and what impact they may have on the Issuer’s tax position. The new provisions are presently intended to apply from 2008 onwards unless specific other dates apply. However, this is merely a tentative date and further amendments may be made to the draft bill, including on short notice. In any event, if this draft bill, or an amended version of this bill, becomes law, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Existing insurance coverage may prove inadequate. We aim to cover foreseeable material risks by insurance. Our insurance coverage, however, may prove inadequate to fully cover the risks to which the SGL Group is exposed. For certain risks, adequate insurance coverage may not be available on the market or at reasonable conditions. Our sales revenues are exposed to credit default risks. For this reason and insofar as possible, we cover this risk through insurance to a certain extent (which is limited, for example, in the United States). We use a variety of instruments for this purpose, such as pre-payment, payment guarantees, confirmed letters of credit and credit insurance. We cannot assure you that payment shortfalls from customers (particularly in the steel industry) will not occur in the future. 14 Back to Contents 