Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Competition may reduce our market share and harm our results of operations and financial condition. We face substantial competition across all our businesses, including our wireless telecommunications business, in Korea. We expect competition to intensify as a result of continuing consolidation of market leaders 8 Table of Contents and the development of new technologies, products and services. We expect that such trends will continue to put downward pressure on the prevailing tariffs we can charge our subscribers. Prior to April 1996, we were the only wireless telecommunications service provider in Korea. Since then, several new providers have entered the market, offering wireless voice and data services that compete directly with our business. The collective market share of these providers amounts to approximately 49.4%, in terms of numbers of wireless service subscribers, as of December 31, 2009. Since 2000, there has also been considerable consolidation in the wireless telecommunications industry, resulting in the emergence of stronger competitors, including the merger of KT Freetel Co., Ltd., or KTF, one of our principal wireless competitors before the merger, into KT Corporation, or KT, Korea’s principal fixed-line operator, in June 2009 and the merger of LG DACOM Corporation and LG Powercomm Co., Ltd. into LG Telecom Co., Ltd., or LGT, in January 2010. Such consolidation has created large, well-capitalized competitors with substantial financial, technical, marketing and other resources to respond to our business offerings. In addition, our broadband Internet access service provided through SK Broadband competes with other providers of Internet access services, including KT, LGT, and cable companies, and our fixed-line telephone service provided through SK Broadband competes with KT, as well as providers of voice over Internet protocol, or VoIP, services. Future business combinations and alliances in the telecommunications industry may also create significant new competitors or enhance the abilities of our current competitors to offer more competitive services and could harm our business and results of operations. Continued competition from the other wireless and fixed-line service providers has also resulted in, and may continue to result in, a substantial level of deactivations among our subscribers. Subscriber deactivations, or churn, may significantly harm our business and results of operations. In 2009, the churn rate in our wireless business ranged from 2.1% to 3.2%, with an average churn rate of 2.7%, compared to an average churn rate of 2.7% in 2008. Intensification of competition in the future may cause our churn rates to increase. The increased competition may cause us to increase our marketing expenses as a percentage of sales to attract and retain subscribers. However, on May 13, 2010, the KCC announced a guideline recommending that telecommunication service providers limit their marketing expenses to 22% of their annual sales. The guideline is not binding and such marketing expenses do not include advertising expenses. In order to meet the new guideline, we, as well as our competitors, would have to decrease such marketing expenses. Such decrease in our marketing expenses may have a material adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations. In addition, in March 2008, the KCC fully lifted its prohibition on the practice of telecommunications services providers to offer handsets at below retail prices to attract new subscribers. As a result of the Government’s decision to allow handset subsidies, we have faced increased competition from other mobile service providers and increased our marketing expenses. However, in order to comply with the KCC’s guideline on marketing expenditures, we may not be able to spend sufficient funds on marketing to effectively compete with our competitors, and any material decrease in our marketing expenditures may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2007, the KCC introduced certain regulations to allow telecommunication service providers to bundle their services as well as allow our competitors to employ services provided by us so that they can offer similar discounted package services. Competition intensified as licensed transmission service providers were permitted to offer local, domestic long-distance and international telephone services, as well as broadband Internet access and Internet phone services, without additional business licenses. Moreover, beginning in September 2010, we may be required to lease our networks to a mobile virtual network operator, or MVNO, at such MVNO’s request, at a rate mutually agreed upon that complies with the standards set by the KCC. We expect a few MVNOs will commence providing wireless telecommunications services using the networks leased from us by early 2011. For more detailed discussion of the Government’s rate regulations, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Law and Regulation — Competition Regulation — Rate Regulation”. In addition, Korea Mobile Internet, or KMI, announced this year a plan to enter the wireless telecommunications market as a fourth telecommunication service provider in Korea and provide wireless Internet and mobile VoIP services based on the wireless broadband Internet, or WiBro, technologies. We believe the introduction of bundled services and the entrance of MVNOs and KMI into the wireless telecommunications market may further increase competition in the telecommunications sector, as well as cause downward price pressure on the fees we charge for our services, which, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 9 Table of Contents We expect competition to intensify as a result of continued consolidation of our competitors, regulatory changes and the rapid development of new technologies, products and services. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors. Inability to successfully implement or adapt our network and technology to meet the continuing technological advancements affecting the wireless industry will likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation, cash flows and business. The telecommunications industry has been characterized by continual improvement and advances in technology, and this trend is expected to continue. We and our competitors have continually implemented technology upgrades from basic code division multiple access, or CDMA, networks to wide-band code division multiple access, or WCDMA, which is the 3G technology implemented by us. We are currently further upgrading our WCDMA network to support even more advanced high-speed uplink packet access, or HSUPA, technology, and plan to introduce evolved high speed packet access, or HSPA+, service by the end of 2010. The more successful operation of a 3G network by a competitor, including better market acceptance of a competitor’s 3G-based services, could materially and adversely affect our existing wireless businesses as well as the returns on future investments we may make in our 3G network or our other businesses. In March 2005, we obtained a license from the MIC to provide WiBro services. WiBro enables us to offer high-speed and large-packet data services, including wireless broadband Internet access to portable computers and other portable devices. We commercially launched WiBro service in June 2006, initially to 24 “hot zone” areas, which are neighborhoods and districts that we have determined to be high-data traffic areas, in seven cities in Korea. By the end of 2009, we have extended WiBro service to hot zone areas in 84 cities throughout Korea. In 2010, we plan to further expand WiBro service to more extensive hot zone areas in the 84 cities. Beyond 2010, our WiBro expansion plans will depend, in part, on subscriber demand for WiBro services. As the implementation of WiBro service in Korea is relatively new, we cannot assure you that there will continue to be sufficient demand for our WiBro services. Our WiBro services may not be commercially successful if market conditions are unfavorable or service demand is weak. For a more detailed description of our backbone networks, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Digital Cellular Network”. Our business could also be harmed if we fail to implement, or adapt to, future technological advancements in the telecommunications sector in a timely manner. Implementation of WiBro technology has required, and may continue to require, significant capital and other expenditures, which we may not recoup. We have made, and intend to continue to make, capital investments to develop and launch our WiBro services. In 2009, we spent Won 146.8 billion in capital expenditures to build and expand our WiBro network. We submitted an implementation plan to the KCC in February 2010 to spend an additional amount of Won 145.3 billion by May 2011 to expand our WiBro network, and may make further capital investments related to our WiBro service in the future. Our WiBro-related investment plans are subject to change, and will depend, in part, on market demand for WiBro services, the competitive landscape for provision of such services and the development of competing technologies. There may not be sufficient demand for our WiBro services, as a result of competition or otherwise, to permit us to recoup or profit from our WiBro-related capital investments. KT Corporation commercially launched its WiBro service in 2006. The more successful operation of a WiBro network by KT Corporation, or another competitor, including better market acceptance of a competitor’s WiBro services, could also materially and adversely affect our business. 10 Table of Contents Our growth strategy calls for significant investments in new businesses and regions, including businesses and regions in which we have limited experience. As a part of our growth strategy, we plan to selectively seek business opportunities abroad. In February 2005, we established a joint venture company, UNISK Information Technology Co., Ltd., with China Unicom Ltd., China’s second largest mobile operator, to market and offer wireless data services in China. In October 2008, China Unicom merged with China Netcom Group Corporation (Hong Kong) Limited, a leading broadband communications and fixed-line telecommunications operator in China. On November 5, 2009, we sold all common shares (representing a 6.6% equity interest) of China Unicom held by us to China Unicom. In connection with our investment in China Unicom, we realized a cumulative gain of Won 269 billion through the end of 2009. In addition, in May 2006 our subsidiary, HELIO, LLC, launched cellular voice and data services across the United States. In August 2008, together with EarthLink Inc., our joint venture partner in HELIO, we sold our equity interest in HELIO to Virgin Mobile USA, Inc., in exchange for an equity stake in Virgin Mobile USA, Inc. In November 2009, we sold our equity interest in Virgin Mobile USA, Inc. to Sprint Nextel Corporation in connection with the merger of Virgin Mobile USA, Inc. with and into Sprint Nextel Corporation, in exchange for a 0.6% equity interest in Sprint Nextel Corporation. In connection with our investment in HELIO, we have recognized a cumulative loss of Won 20 billion through the end of 2009. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Our Business Strategy — Global Business — United States” for more information regarding our investments in HELIO and Virgin Mobile USA, Inc. We continue to seek other opportunities to expand our business abroad, particularly in Asia and the United States, as such opportunities present themselves. These global businesses may require further investment from us. For a more detailed description of our investments in our global business, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Our Services — Global Business”. We believe that we must continue to make significant investments to build, develop and broaden our existing businesses. Entering into new businesses and regions in which we have limited experience may require us to make substantial investments, and, despite such investments, we may still be unsuccessful in these efforts to expand and diversify. We might not be able to recoup or profit from our investments in new businesses and regions. In addition, when we enter into these businesses and regions with partners through joint ventures or other strategic alliances, we and those partners may have disagreements with respect to strategic directions or other aspects of business, or may otherwise be unable to coordinate or cooperate with each other, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operations in such businesses and regions. We may fail to successfully integrate our new acquisitions and joint ventures and may fail to realize the anticipated benefits. We have pursued convergence growth opportunities. For example, in 2008 and 2009, we acquired an additional equity stake in SK Broadband, Korea’s second-largest fixed-line operator, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately Won 1.45 trillion and currently hold a 50.6% equity stake in the company. In February 2010, we acquired a 49% equity stake in Hana Card Co., Ltd. for the purchase price of Won 402 billion in order to provide cross-over services between telecommunication and finance. In September 2009, we also acquired the leased-line business of SK Networks Co., Ltd. for Won 892.8 billion and assumed Won 620.2 billion of debt as part of the transaction. While we are hoping to benefit from a range of synergies from the acquisitions, including by offering our customers bundled fixed-line and mobile telecommunications services, we may not be able to integrate our new businesses and may fail to realize the expected benefits in the near term, or at all. In particular, we may experience difficulties in operating SK Broadband’s fixed-line telecommunications and broadband Internet services with our existing products and services, and we may be unsuccessful in retaining SK Broadband’s existing customers. Since April 2008, customers of SK Broadband have filed lawsuits against SK Broadband in the Seoul Central District Court, alleging that SK Broadband had violated customers’ privacy, and an investigation against SK Broadband was initiated by the Seoul Central Prosecutor’s Office, the KCC and the Korea Trade Commission. In connection with its investigation, the KCC suspended SK Broadband from soliciting new subscribers for its broadband Internet services for a period of 40 days from July 1, 2008 and, in addition, imposed an administrative fine of Won 178 million. As of March 31, 2010, the number of plaintiffs was 23,821 and the aggregate amount of damages claimed by such plaintiffs was approximately Won 24.1 billion. For more 11 Table of Contents information regarding this lawsuit, see “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings — SK Broadband Litigation”. Due to the existing high penetration rate of wireless services in Korea, we are unlikely to maintain our subscriber growth rate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. According to data published by the KCC and our population estimates based on historical data published by the National Statistical Office of Korea, the penetration rate for the Korean wireless telecommunications service industry as of December 31, 2009 was approximately 98.4%, which is high compared to many industrialized countries. Therefore, the penetration rates for wireless telecommunications service in Korea will not grow significantly. As a result of the already high penetration rates in Korea for wireless services coupled with our leading market share, we expect our subscriber growth rate to decrease. Slowed growth in penetration rates without a commensurate increase in revenues through the introduction of new services and increased use of our services by existing subscribers would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to acquire adequate additional spectrum or use our bandwidth efficiently to accommodate subscriber growth and subscriber usage. One of the principal limitations on a wireless network’s subscriber capacity is the amount of spectrum available for use by the system. According to KCC’s final plan announced in February 2010, the amount of spectrum in the 800 MHz band allocated to us will be reduced to 2 x 15 MHz of spectrum beginning in July 2011 from the current 2 x 22.5 MHz. Instead, we have been allocated an additional 2 x 10 MHz of spectrum in the 2.1 GHz band, which will be used for our 3G services. As a result of bandwidth constraints, our CDMA 1xRTT network is currently operating near its capacity in the Seoul metropolitan area, although capacity constraints are not as severe for transmissions utilizing CDMA 1xEV-DO technology. While we believe that we can address this issue through system upgrades and efficient allocation of bandwidth, inability to address such capacity constraints in a timely manner may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The growth of our wireless data businesses has been a significant factor in the increased utilization of our bandwidth, since wireless data applications are generally more bandwidth-intensive than voice services. This trend has been offset in part by the implementation of CDMA 1xEV-DO upgrades to our CDMA 1xRTT network and, more recently, the completion of our HSDPA-capable WCDMA network, which both enable more efficient usage of our bandwidth than was possible on our basic CDMA and CDMA 1xRTT networks. However, if the current trend of increased data transmission use by our subscribers continues, or the volume of the multimedia content we offer through our wireless data services substantially grows, our bandwidth capacity requirements are likely to increase. In the event we are unable to maintain sufficient bandwidth capacity, our subscribers may perceive a general slowdown of wireless services. Growth of our wireless business will depend in part upon our ability to manage effectively our bandwidth capacity and to implement efficiently and in a timely manner new bandwidth-efficient technologies if they become available. We cannot assure you that bandwidth constraints will not adversely affect the growth of our wireless business. We rely on key researchers and engineers and senior management, and the loss of the services of any such personnel or the inability to attract and retain them may negatively affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our research and development and engineering personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified researchers and engineers. In particular, our focus on leading the market in introducing new services has meant that we must aggressively recruit engineers with expertise in cutting-edge technologies. We also depend on the services of experienced key senior management, and if we lose their services, it would be difficult to find and integrate replacement personnel in a timely manner, or at all. The loss of the services of any of our key research and development and engineering personnel or senior management without adequate replacement, or the inability to attract new qualified personnel, would have a material adverse effect on our operations. 12 Table of Contents We need to observe certain financial and other covenants under the terms of our debt instruments, the failure to comply with which would put us in default under those instruments. Certain of our debt instruments contain financial and other covenants with which we are required to comply on an annual and semi-annual basis. The financial covenants include, but are not limited to, maintenance of credit ratings and debt-to-equity ratios. The documentation for such debt also contains negative pledge provisions limiting our ability to provide liens on our assets as well as cross-default and cross-acceleration clauses, which give related creditors the right to accelerate the amounts due under such debt if an event of default or acceleration has occurred with respect to our existing or future indebtedness, or if any material part of our indebtedness or indebtedness of our subsidiaries is capable of being declared payable before the stated maturity date. In addition, such covenants restrict our ability to raise future debt financing. If we breach our financial or other covenants, our financial condition will be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to cure such breaches or repay the relevant debt. We may have to make further financing arrangements to meet our capital expenditure requirements and debt payment obligations. As a network-based wireless telecommunications provider, we have had, and expect to continue to have, significant capital expenditure requirements as we continue to build out, maintain and upgrade our networks. We spent Won 2,162.4 billion for capital expenditures in 2009 and we expect to spend a similar amount for capital expenditures in 2010 for a range of projects, including investments in our backbone networks, investments to improve our WCDMA network-based products and services, investments in our wireless Internet-related and convergence businesses and funding for mid- to long-term research and development projects, as well as other initiatives, primarily related to our ongoing businesses and in the ordinary course. In 2010, we plan to continue HSUPA upgrades to our WCDMA network and expand our WiBro service to more extensive “hot zone” areas in 84 cities, as well as introduce HSPA+ service by the end of this year. For a more detailed discussion of our capital expenditure plans and a discussion of other factors that may affect our future capital expenditures, see “Item 5.B. Liquidity and Capital Resources” As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately Won 1,823.7 billion in contractual payment obligations due in 2010, almost all of which involve repayment of debt obligations. See “Item 5.F. Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations”. We have not arranged firm financing for all of our current or future capital expenditure plans and contractual payment obligations. We have, in the past, obtained funds for our proposed capital expenditure and payment obligations from various sources, including our cash flow from operations as well as from financings, primarily debt and equity financings. Any material adverse change in our operational or financial condition could impact our ability to fund our capital expenditure plans and contractual payment obligations. Still volatile financial market conditions may also curtail our ability to obtain adequate funding. Inability to fund such capital expenditure requirements may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. In addition, although we currently anticipate that the capital expenditure levels estimated by us will be adequate to meet our business needs, such estimates may need to be adjusted based on developments in technology and markets. In the event we are unable to meet any such increased expenditure requirements or to obtain adequate financing for such requirements, on terms acceptable to us, or at all, this may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Termination or impairment of our relationship with a small number of key suppliers for network equipment and for leased lines could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We purchase wireless network equipment from a small number of suppliers. We purchase our principal wireless network equipment from Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and LG Nortel Co., Ltd. To date, we have purchased substantially all of the equipment for our CDMA 1xRTT and CDMA 1xEV-DO networks from Samsung Electronics and substantially all of the equipment for our WCDMA network, including the software and firmware used to implement HSDPA and HSUPA upgrades, from Samsung Electronics and LG Nortel. In addition, to date, 13 Table of Contents we have purchased substantially all of the equipment for our WiBro network from Samsung Electronics. We believe Samsung Electronics currently manufactures approximately half of the wireless handsets sold to our subscribers. Although other manufacturers sell the equipment we require, sourcing such equipment from other manufacturers could result in unanticipated costs in maintenance and upkeep of the CDMA 1xRTT, CDMA 1xEV-DO and WCDMA networks, as well as unanticipated increased costs in the planned expansion of our WiBro network. Inability to obtain the equipment needed for our networks in a timely manner may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to obtain the necessary equipment from one or more of our suppliers. Any discontinuation or interruption in the availability of equipment from our suppliers for any reason could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Inability to lease adequate lines at commercially reasonable rates may impact the quality of the services we offer and may also damage our reputation and our business. Our business relies on technology developed by us as well as technologies provided by third parties, and our business will suffer if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, obtain new licensing agreements or renew existing licensing agreements with third parties. We own numerous patents and trademarks worldwide, and have applications for patents pending in many countries, including Korea, Japan, China, the United States, and Europe. We also license a number of patented processes and trademarks under cross-licensing, technical assistance and other agreements. In addition to active internal and external research and development efforts, our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our services. We may be required to defend against charges of infringement of patent or other proprietary rights of third parties. Although we have not experienced any significant patent or other intellectual property disputes, we cannot be certain that any significant patent or other intellectual property disputes will not occur in the future. Defending our patent and other proprietary rights could require us to incur substantial expense and to divert significant resources of our technical and management personnel, and could result in our loss of rights to employ certain technologies to provide services. If we are unable to renew our technology licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, we may lose the legal protection to use certain of the technologies we employ to provide services and be prohibited from using those technologies which may prevent us from providing our services. In addition, we could be at a disadvantage if our competitors obtain licenses for protected technologies on more favorable terms than we do. We also cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain additional licenses for new or existing technologies on acceptable terms or at all. Labor disputes may disrupt our operations. Although we have not experienced any significant labor disputes, there can be no assurance that we will not experience labor disputes in the future, including protests and strikes, which could disrupt our business operations and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Every two years, the union and management negotiate and enter into a new collective bargaining agreement that has a two-year duration, which is focused on employee benefits and welfare. Employee wages are separately negotiated on an annual basis. Although we consider our relations with our employees to be good, there can be no assurance that we will continue such a working relationship with our employees and will not experience labor disputes resulting from disagreements with the labor union in the future. Our businesses are subject to extensive Government regulation and any change in Government policy relating to the telecommunications industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. All of our businesses are subject to extensive governmental supervision and regulation. The MIC has periodically reviewed the tariffs charged by wireless operators and has, from time to time, suggested tariff reductions. Although these suggestions are not binding, we have in the past implemented some degree of tariff reductions in response to MIC recommendations. After discussions with the KCC, in November 2009, we adopted 14 Table of Contents various tariff reduction measures, including a reduction of the initial subscription fee by 27% and an increase in discounts for long-term subscribers. In March 2010, we also began to charge voice calls on a per-second basis, which has the effect of reducing the usage charges compared with the previous system of charging per ten seconds. The Government also plays an active role in the selection of technology to be used by telecommunications operators in Korea. The MIC adopted the WCDMA and CDMA2000 technologies as the only standards available in Korea for implementing 3G services. The KCC may impose similar restrictions on the choice of technology used in future telecommunications services, and it is possible that technologies promoted by the Government in the future may not provide the best commercial returns for us. Furthermore, the Government sets the policies regarding the use of frequencies and allocates the spectrum of frequencies used for wireless telecommunications. In February 2010, the KCC announced its final plan to reallocate the spectrum of frequencies among us, KT Corporation and LGT. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Law and Regulation — Competition Regulation”. While we do not believe the reallocation of spectrum will materially impact our ability to maintain sufficient bandwidth capacity, the reallocation and new allocation of the spectrum to our existing or new competitors could increase competition among wireless service providers, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Pursuant to recent amendments to the Telecommunications Business Act, which will become effective as of September 23, 2010, certain mobile network operators designated by the KCC, which we expect will include us, are required to lease their networks or allow use of their networks (collectively, “wholesale lease”) to other network service providers, such as an MVNO, that have requested such wholesale lease in order to provide their own services using the leased networks. We expect a few MVNOs will commence providing wireless telecommunications services using the networks leased from us by early 2011. We believe that leasing a portion of our bandwidth capacity to an MVNO would impair our ability to use our bandwidth in ways that would generate maximum revenues and would strengthen our MVNO competitors by granting them access and lowering their costs to enter into our markets. Accordingly, our profitability may be adversely affected. Our wireless telecommunications services depend, in part, on our interconnection arrangements with domestic and international fixed-line and other wireless networks. Our interconnection arrangements, including the interconnection rates we pay and interconnection rates we charge, affect our revenues and operating results. The KCC determines the basic framework for interconnection arrangements, including interconnection policies relating to interconnection rates in Korea, and the MIC has changed this framework several times in the past. We cannot assure you that we will not be adversely affected by future changes in the KCC’s interconnection policies. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Interconnection — Domestic Calls”. In January 2003, the MIC announced its plan to implement number portability with respect to wireless telecommunications service in Korea. The number portability system allows wireless subscribers to switch wireless service operators while retaining the same mobile phone number. In addition, the MIC has also required all new subscribers to be given numbers with the ‘010’ prefix starting January 2004, and it has been gradually retracting the mobile service identification numbers which had been unique to each wireless telecommunications service provider, including ‘011’ for our cellular services. Historically, ‘011’ has had high brand recognition in Korea as the premium wireless telecommunications service. The MIC’s adoption of the number portability system has resulted in and may continue to result in weakened customer loyalty, increased competition among wireless service providers and higher costs of marketing, increased subscriber deactivations and increased churn rate, all of which had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Subscribers — Number Portability”. In addition, the KCC may revoke our licenses or suspend any of our businesses if we fail to comply with its rules, regulations and corrective orders, including the rules restricting beneficial ownership and control or any violation of the conditions of our licenses. Alternatively, in lieu of suspension of our business, the KCC may levy a monetary penalty of up to 3% of the average of our annual revenue for the preceding three fiscal years. The revocation of our cellular licenses, suspension of our business or imposition of monetary penalties by the KCC could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe we are currently in compliance with the material terms of all our cellular licenses, including our IMT-2000 and WiBro licenses. 15 Table of Contents We are subject to additional regulations as a result of our dominant market position in the wireless telecommunications sector, which could harm our ability to compete effectively. The KCC endeavors to promote competition in the Korean telecommunications markets through measures designed to prevent a dominant service provider from exercising its market power and deterring the emergence and development of viable competitors. We are currently designated by the KCC as the “market dominant service provider” in respect of our wireless telecommunications business. As such, we are subject to additional regulations to which certain of our competitors are not subject. For example, under current Government regulations, we must obtain prior approval from the KCC to change our existing rates or introduce new rates. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Law and Regulation — Competition Regulation — Rate Regulation”. We could also be required by the KCC to charge higher usage rates than our competitors for future services. In addition, we were required to introduce number portability earlier than our competitors, KT and LGT. The MIC also awarded the IMT-2000 license to provide 3G services to LGT at a fee lower than our license fee and on terms generally more favorable than the terms of our license. We also qualify as a “market-dominating business entity” under the Fair Trade Act, which subjects us to additional regulations. For instance, during our acquisition of Shinsegi Telecom, Inc. in 2002, the Fair Trade Commission of Korea, or the FTC, approved the acquisition on the condition that, among other things, our and Shinsegi Telecom’s combined market share in the wireless telecommunications market, based on numbers of subscribers, be less than 50% as of June 30, 2001. In order to satisfy this condition, we reduced the level of our subscriber activations and adopted more stringent involuntary subscriber deactivation policies beginning in 2000 and ceased accepting new subscribers from April 1, 2001 through June 30, 2001. While we are no longer subject to any market share limitations, the Government may impose restrictions on our market share in the future. If we become subject to market share limitations, our ability to compete effectively will be impeded. The additional regulation to which we are subject has affected our competitiveness in the past and may materially hurt our profitability and impede our ability to compete effectively against our competitors in the future. Concerns that radio frequency emissions may be linked to various health concerns could adversely affect our business and we could be subject to litigation relating to these health concerns. In the past, allegations that serious health risks may result from the use of wireless telecommunications devices or other transmission equipment have adversely affected share prices of some wireless telecommunications companies in the United States. We cannot assure you that these health concerns will not adversely affect our business. Several class action and personal injury lawsuits have been filed in the United States against several wireless phone manufacturers and carriers, asserting product liability, breach of warranty and other claims relating to radio transmissions to and from wireless phones. Certain of these lawsuits have been dismissed. We could be subject to liability or incur significant costs defending lawsuits brought by our subscribers or other parties who claim to have been harmed by or as a result of our services. In addition, the actual or perceived risk of wireless telecommunications devices could have an adverse effect on our business by reducing our number of subscribers or our usage per subscriber. Risks Relating to Korea Korea is our most important market, and our current business and future growth could be materially and adversely affected if economic conditions in Korea deteriorate. We are incorporated in Korea, and a significant portion of our operations is based in Korea. As a result, we are subject to political, economic, legal and regulatory risks specific to Korea. Recent difficulties affecting the U.S. and global financial sectors, adverse conditions and volatility in the U.S. and worldwide credit and financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the U.S. and global economies have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the Korean economy. Any future deterioration of the Korean and global economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents Developments that could have an adverse impact on Korea’s economy include: • continuing difficulties in the housing and financial sectors in the United States and elsewhere and the resulting adverse effects on the global financial markets; • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including oil prices), exchange rates (including fluctuation of the U.S. dollar or Japanese Yen exchange rates or revaluation of the Chinese renminbi), interest rates and stock markets; • substantial decreases in the market prices of Korean real estate; • increasing delinquencies and credit defaults by consumer and small and medium sized enterprise borrowers; • declines in consumer confidence and a slowdown in consumer spending; • adverse developments in the economies of countries that are important export markets for Korea, such as the United States, Japan and China, or in emerging market economies in Asia or elsewhere; • the continued emergence of the Chinese economy, to the extent its benefits (such as increased exports to China) are outweighed by its costs (such as competition in export markets or for foreign investment and the relocation of the manufacturing base from Korea to China); • social and labor unrest; • a decrease in tax revenues and a substantial increase in the Government’s expenditures for fiscal stimulus measures, unemployment compensation and other economic and social programs that, together, would lead to an increased Government budget deficit; • financial problems or lack of progress in the restructuring of Korean conglomerates, other large troubled companies, their suppliers or the financial sector; • loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues at certain Korean conglomerates; • the economic impact of any pending or future free trade agreements, including the Free Trade Agreement recently negotiated with the United States; • geo-political uncertainty and risk of further attacks by terrorist groups around the world; • deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy; • political uncertainty or increasing strife among or within political parties in Korea; • Government regulations of the Korean financial market and business environment that are not attractive to foreign investors; • hostilities involving oil producing countries in the Middle East and any material disruption in the supply of oil or increase in the price of oil; and • an increase in the level of tension or an outbreak of hostilities between North Korea and Korea or the United States. Increased tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and the market value of the common shares and ADSs. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase abruptly as a result of current and future events. In recent years, there have been heightened security concerns stemming from North Korea’s nuclear weapons and long-range missile programs and increased uncertainty regarding North Korea’s actions and possible responses from the international community. 17 Table of Contents Tension persists around the border between North Korea and Korea and sometimes results in deadly casualties. On March 26, 2010, Korean Navy warship Cheonan suffered an explosion and sank near the Northern Limit Line, a disputed maritime demarcation line in the Yellow Sea between North Korea and Korea. As a result, 46 sailors were killed. The Korean military authority determined a torpedo manufactured by North Korea to be the cause of the explosion of the warship and death of the sailors. On May 16, 2010, two North Korean patrol boats crossed the Northern Limit Line, escalating the tension between the two countries again. In May 2010, the Government formally accused North Korea of causing the sinking and is seeking United Nations Security Council sanctions for the act. North Korea has threatened retaliation for any attempt to punish it for the act. In addition, there recently has been increased uncertainty with respect to the future of North Korea’s political leadership and concern regarding its implications for economic and political stability in the region. In June 2009, U.S. and Korean officials announced that Kim Jong-il, the North Korean ruler who reportedly suffered a stroke in August 2008, designated his third son, who is reportedly in his twenties, to become his successor. The succession plan, however, remains uncertain. In addition, North Korea’s economy faces severe challenges. For example, in November 2009, the North Korean government redenominated its currency at a ratio of 100 to 1 as part of a currency reform undertaken in an attempt to control inflation and reduce income gaps. In tandem with the currency redenomination, the North Korean government banned the use or possession of foreign currency by its residents and closed down privately run markets, which led to severe inflation and food shortages. Such developments may further aggravate social and political tensions within North Korea. There can be no assurance that the level of tension on the Korean peninsula will not escalate in the future. Any further increase in tensions may occur, for example, if North Korea experiences a leadership crisis, high-level contacts break down or military hostilities occur, and could have a material adverse effect on the Korean economy in general, on our operations and the market value of the common shares and ADSs. Korea’s legislation allowing class action suits related to securities transactions may expose us to additional litigation risk. The Securities-related Class Action Act of Korea enacted in January 2004 allows class action suits to be brought by shareholders of companies (including us) listed on the KRX KOSPI Market for losses incurred in connection with purchases and sales of securities and other securities transactions arising from (i) false or inaccurate statements provided in the registration statements, prospectuses, business reports and audit reports and omission of material information in such documents, (ii) insider trading, (iii) market manipulation and (iv) unfair trading. This law permits 50 or more shareholders who collectively hold 0.01% of the shares of a company to bring a class action suit against, among others, the issuer and its directors and officers. Because of the relatively recent enactment of the act, there is not enough judicial precedent to predict how the courts will apply the law. Litigation can be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, and can divert management time and attention from the operation of a business. We are not aware of any basis upon which such suit may be brought against us, nor are any such suits pending or threatened. Any such litigation brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Securities Continued difficulties in global credit and financial markets and the resulting governmental actions around the world could have a material adverse impact on our business and the ability to meet our funding needs, and could cause the market value of the common shares and ADSs to decline. Global credit markets have been experiencing difficulties and volatility since the second half of 2008. While the rate of deterioration of the global economy slowed in the second half of 2009 and into 2010, with some signs of stabilization and possible improvement, the overall prospects for the Korean and global economy in 2010 and beyond remain uncertain. The legislators and financial regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions, including Korea, have implemented a number of policy measures designed to add stability to financial markets. The overall impact of these legislative and regulatory efforts on the global financial markets continues to be uncertain, 18 Table of Contents and they may not have the intended stabilizing effects. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. We are exposed to risks related to changes in the global and Korean economic environments, changes in interest rates and instability in the global financial markets. Furthermore, as a result of adverse global and Korean economic conditions, there has been a significant overall decline and volatility in securities prices of Korean companies, including ours, which may result in trading and valuation losses on our trading and investment securities portfolio. Increases in credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit resulting from heightened concerns about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers, which may negatively impact our liquidity and results of operation. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate may further impair our ability to meet our desired funding needs. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. These recent and developing economic and governmental factors may have a material adverse effect on our business and the ability to meet our funding needs, as well as negatively affect the market prices of the common shares and ADSs. Depreciation of the value of the Won against the Dollar and other major foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the market value of our common shares and ADSs. Substantially all of our revenues are denominated in Won. Depreciation of the Won may materially affect our results of operations because, among other things, it causes: • an increase in the amount of Won required by us to make interest and principal payments on our foreign currency-denominated debt; and • an increase, in Won terms, of the costs of equipment that we purchase from overseas sources which we pay for in Dollars or other foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the Dollar will affect the Dollar equivalent of the Won price of the shares of our common stock on the KRX KOSPI Market of the Korea Exchange, or the KRX KOSPI Market. These fluctuations also will affect: • the amounts a registered holder or beneficial owner of ADSs will receive from the ADR depositary in respect of dividends, which will be paid in Won to the ADR depositary and converted by the ADR depositary into Dollars; • the Dollar value of the proceeds that a holder will receive upon sale in Korea of the common shares; and • the secondary market price of the ADSs. For historical exchange rate information, see “Item 3.A. Selected Financial Data — Exchange Rates”. If SK Holdings causes us to breach the foreign ownership limitations on shares of our common stock, we may experience a change of control. The Telecommunications Business Act currently sets a 49% limit on the aggregate foreign ownership of our issued shares. Under the Telecommunications Business Act, as amended, a Korean entity, such as SK Holdings, is deemed to be a foreign entity if its largest shareholder (determined by aggregating the shareholdings of such shareholder and its related parties) is a foreigner and such shareholder (together with the shareholdings of its related parties) holds 15% or more of the issued voting stock of the Korean entity. As of December 31, 2009, SK Holdings owned 18,748,452 shares of our common stock, or approximately 23.22%, of our issued shares. If SK Holdings were considered to be a foreign shareholder, then its shareholding in us would be included in the calculation of our aggregate foreign shareholding and our aggregate foreign shareholding (based on our foreign ownership level as of December 31, 2009, which we believe was 48.51%) would exceed the 49% ceiling on foreign shareholding. As of December 31, 2009, a foreign investment fund and its related parties collectively held a 2.9% stake in SK Holdings. We could breach the foreign ownership limitations if the number of shares of our common stock or ADSs owned by other foreign persons significantly increases. 19 Table of Contents If our aggregate foreign shareholding limit is exceeded, the KCC may issue a corrective order to us, the breaching shareholder (including SK Holdings if the breach is caused by an increase in foreign ownership of SK Holdings) and the foreign investment fund and its related parties who own in the aggregate 15% or more of SK Holdings. Furthermore, if SK Holdings is considered a foreign shareholder, it may not exercise its voting rights with respect to the shares held in excess of the 49% ceiling, which may result in a change in control of us. In addition, the KCC may refuse to grant us licenses or permits necessary for entering into new telecommunications businesses until our aggregate foreign shareholding is reduced to below 49%. For a description of further actions that the KCC could take, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Law and Regulation — Foreign Ownership and Investment Restrictions and Requirements”. If our convertible notes are converted by foreign holders and such conversion causes a violation of the foreign ownership restrictions of the Telecommunications Business Act, or in certain other circumstances, we may sell common stock in order to settle the converting holders’ conversion rights in cash in lieu of delivering common stock or ADSs to them, and these sales might adversely affect the market price of our common stock or ADSs. In April 2009, we sold US$332.5 million in 1.75% convertible notes due 2014. As of May 18, 2009, these convertible notes became convertible by the holders into shares of our common stock at the rate of Won 230,010 per share and the conversion price was adjusted to Won 221,370 effective as of December 31, 2009 as a result of the annual dividend payment. These notes are held principally by foreign holders. If (1) the exercise by the holder of the conversion right would be prohibited by Korean law or we reasonably conclude that the delivery of common stock or ADSs upon conversion of these notes would result in a violation of applicable Korean law or (2) we do not have a sufficient number of shares of our common stock to satisfy the conversion right, then we will pay a converting holder a cash settlement payment. In such situations, we may sell such number of treasury shares held in trust for us that corresponds to the number of shares of common stock that would have been deliverable in the absence of the 49% foreign shareholding restrictions imposed by the Telecommunications Business Act or other legal restrictions. The number of shares sold in these circumstances might be substantial. We cannot assure you that such sales would not adversely affect the market prices of our common stock or ADSs. Sales of our shares by SK Holdings and/or other large shareholders may adversely affect the market value of the common stock and ADSs. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the shares of our common stock or ADSs or our ability to raise capital through an offering of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, SK Holdings owned 23.22% of our total issued common stock and has not agreed to any restrictions on its ability to dispose of our shares. See “Item 7.A. Major Shareholders”. We can make no prediction as to the timing or amount of any sales of our common stock. We cannot assure you that future sales of shares of our common stock, or the availability of shares of our common stock for future sale, will not adversely affect the market prices of the shares of our common stock or ADSs prevailing from time to time. If an investor surrenders his or her ADSs to withdraw the underlying shares, he or she may not be allowed to deposit the shares again to obtain ADSs. Under the deposit agreement, holders of shares of our common stock may deposit those shares with the American Depositary Receipt (“ADR”) depositary’s custodian in Korea and obtain ADSs, and holders of ADSs may surrender ADSs to the ADR depositary and receive shares of our common stock. However, under the terms of the deposit agreement, as amended, the depositary bank is required to obtain our prior consent to any such deposit if, after giving effect to such deposit, the total number of shares of our common stock represented by ADSs, which was approximately 24,000,810 shares as of June 1, 2010, exceeds a specified maximum, subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. In addition, the depositary bank or the custodian may not accept deposits of our common shares for issuance of ADSs under certain circumstances, including (1) if it has been determined by us that we should block the deposit to prevent a violation of applicable Korean laws and regulations or our articles of incorporation or (2) if a person intending to make a deposit has been identified as a holder of at least 3% of our common stock. See “Item 10.B. Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation — Description of American Depositary Shares”. It is possible that we 20 Table of Contents may not give the consent. Consequently, an investor who has surrendered his or her ADSs and withdrawn the underlying shares may not be allowed to deposit the shares again to obtain ADSs. An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional new shares and may suffer dilution of his or her equity interest in us. The Korean Commercial Code and our articles of incorporation require us, with some exceptions, to offer shareholders the right to subscribe for new shares in proportion to their existing ownership percentage whenever new shares are issued. If we offer a right to subscribe for additional new shares of our common stock or any other rights of similar nature, the ADR depositary, after consultation with us, may make the rights available to an ADS holder or use reasonable efforts to dispose of the rights on behalf of the ADS holder and make the net proceeds available to the ADS holder. The ADR depositary, however, is not required to make available to an ADS holder any rights to purchase any additional shares unless it deems that doing so is lawful and feasible and: • a registration statement filed by us under the Securities Act is in effect with respect to those shares; or • the offering and sale of those shares is exempt from, or is not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file any registration statement with respect to any ADSs. If a registration statement is required for an ADS holder to exercise preemptive rights but is not filed by us, the ADS holder will not be able to exercise his or her preemptive rights for additional shares. As a result, ADS holders may suffer dilution of their equity interest in us. Short selling of our ADSs by purchasers of securities convertible or exchangeable into our ADSs could materially adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. SK Holdings, through one or more special purpose vehicles, has engaged and may in the future engage in monetization transactions relating to its ownership interest in us. These transactions have included and may include offerings of securities that are convertible or exchangeable into our ADSs. Many investors in convertible or exchangeable securities seek to hedge their exposure in the underlying equity securities at the time of acquisition of the convertible or exchangeable securities, often through short selling of the underlying equity securities or similar transactions. Since a monetization transaction could involve debt securities linked to a significant number of our ADSs, we expect that a sufficient quantity of ADSs may not be immediately available for borrowing in the market to facilitate settlement of the likely volume of short selling activity that would accompany the commencement of a monetization transaction. This short selling and similar hedging activity could place significant downward pressure on the market price of our ADSs, thereby having a material adverse effect on the market value of ADSs owned by you. A holder of our ADSs may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against us. We are a corporation with limited liability organized under the laws of Korea. Substantially all of our directors and officers and other persons named in this document reside in Korea, and all or a significant portion of the assets of our directors and officers and other persons named in this document and substantially all of our assets are located in Korea. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of our ADSs to effect service of process within the United States, or to enforce against us any judgments obtained from the United States courts based on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Korea, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the United States federal securities laws. We are generally subject to Korean corporate governance and disclosure standards, which may differ from those in other countries. Companies in Korea, including us, are subject to corporate governance standards applicable to Korean public companies, which may differ in some respects from standards applicable in other countries, including the United States. As a reporting company registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange, we are, and in the future will be, subject to certain corporate governance 21 Table of Contents standards as mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, foreign private issuers, including us, are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. There may also be less publicly available information about Korean companies, such as us, than is regularly made available by public or non-public companies in other countries. Such differences in corporate governance standards and less public information available could result in corporate governance practices or disclosures that are perceived as less than satisfactory by investors in certain countries. 