Risk Factors Our future operating results may be affected by various risk factors, many of which are beyond our control. Certain of the statements included in this Annual Report and the documents incorporated herein by reference may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding potential future net sales, gross profit, net income and liquidity. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “hope,” “plan,” “intend,” “seek,” “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue” or other similar words. Reference is made in particular to the description of our plans and objectives for future operations, assumptions underlying such plans and objectives, and other forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. We caution investors that there can be no assurance that actual results or business conditions will not differ materially from those projected or suggested in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Factors which could cause such results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include those set forth in the risk factors below. As a result, our future development efforts involve a high degree of risk. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind that the risk factors could cause our actual results to differ significantly from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Risks Related to Our Business An inability to manage our growth, manage the expansion of our operations, or successfully integrate acquired businesses could adversely affect our business. Our business has grown rapidly, with total net revenues increasing from $216.8 million in 2000 to $465.8 million in 2006. In 2002, we opened a research and manufacturing facility in Germantown, Maryland and manufacturing and administration facilities in Germany. Additionally, we have made several acquisitions and are likely to make more. The successful integration of acquired businesses requires a significant effort and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance and administration and information technologies. In 2003 and 2004 as part of a restructuring of our U.S operations, we relocated certain administrative, sales and marketing functions to our Maryland facility. Our earlier expansion of facilities in Maryland and Germany added production capacity and increased fixed costs. These higher fixed costs will continue to be a cost of production in the future, and until we more fully utilize the additional capacity of the facilities, our gross profit will be negatively impacted. We have also upgraded our operating and financial systems and expanded the geographic area of our operations, resulting in the hiring of new employees, as well as increased responsibility for both existing and new management personnel. The rapid expansion of our business and addition of new personnel may place a strain on our management and operational systems. 5 Table of Contents Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management to continue to implement and improve our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing and customer support programs, enhance our operational and financial control systems, expand, train and manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of technologies and businesses. During the past several years we have acquired a number of companies, through which we have gained access to technologies and products that complement our internally developed product lines. In the future, we may acquire additional technologies, products or businesses to expand our existing and planned business. Acquisitions would expose us to the addition of new operating and other risks including the risks associated with the: • assimilation of new technologies, operations, sites and personnel; • application for and obtaining of regulatory approvals or other clearances; • diversion of resources from our existing business and technologies; • inability to generate revenues to offset associated acquisition costs; • inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, and procedures; • inability to maintain relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; • issuance of dilutive equity securities; • incurrence or assumption of debt; • additional expenses associated with future amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets or potential businesses; or • assumption of liabilities or exposure to claims against acquired entities. Our failure to address the above risks successfully in the future may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. Our continued growth is dependent on the development and success of new products. The market for certain of our products and services is only about fifteen years old. Rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions are typical in this market. Our future success will depend in part on continuous, timely development and introduction of new products that address evolving market requirements. We believe successful new product introductions provide a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product, and are reluctant to switch thereafter. To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain. An inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new products could reduce our growth rate or otherwise damage our business. In the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of products. We cannot assure you that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in life sciences research, or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products include: • availability, quality and price relative to competitive products; • the timing of introduction of the product relative to competitive products; • scientists’ opinions of the products’ utility; 6 Table of Contents • citation of the product in published research; • regulatory trends; and • general trends in life sciences research, applied markets and molecular diagnostics. The expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year, depending on factors such as the level and timing of our customers’ research and commercialization efforts, timing of our customers’ funding, the timing of our research and development and sales and marketing expenses, the introduction of new products by us or our competitors, competitive conditions, exchange rate fluctuations and general economic conditions. Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenues. Consequently, revenues or profits may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or from year to year, and revenues and profits in any interim period will not necessarily be indicative of results in subsequent periods. We depend on patents and proprietary rights that may fail to protect our business. Our success will depend to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to establish and protect our patent and trademark rights in these products and technologies. As of December 31, 2006, we owned 89 issued patents in the United States, 56 issued patents in Germany and 327 issued patents in other major industrialized countries. In addition, at December 31, 2006, we had 452 pending patent applications and we intend to file applications for additional patents as our products and technologies are developed. However, the patent positions of technology-based companies, including QIAGEN, involve complex legal and factual questions and may be uncertain, and the laws governing the scope of patent coverage and the periods of enforceability of patent protection are subject to change. In addition, patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. Therefore, no assurance can be given that patents will issue from any patent applications that we own or license or, if patents do issue, that the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, no assurance can be given that any issued patents that we own or license will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide us competitive advantages. Certain of our products incorporate patents and technologies that are licensed from third parties. These licenses impose various commercialization, sublicensing and other obligations on us. Our failure to comply with these requirements could result in the conversion of the applicable license from being exclusive to non-exclusive in nature or, in some cases, termination of the license. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect through confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. There can be no assurance that any confidentiality agreements that we have with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. There also can be no assurance that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. We currently engage in, and may continue to engage in, collaborations with academic researchers and institutions. There can be no assurance that under the terms of such collaborations, third parties will not acquire rights in certain inventions developed during the course of the performance of such collaborations. 7 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with patent litigation. The biotechnology industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. We are aware that patents have been applied for and/or issued to third parties claiming technologies for the separation and purification of nucleic acids that are closely related to those we use. From time to time we receive inquiries requesting confirmation that we do not infringe patents of third parties. We endeavor to follow developments in this field, and we do not believe that our technologies or products infringe any proprietary rights of third parties. However, there can be no assurance that third parties will not challenge our activities and, if so challenged, that we will prevail. In addition, the patent and proprietary rights of others could require that we alter our products or processes, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to license any technologies that we may require on acceptable terms. In addition, litigation, including proceedings that may be declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the International Trade Commission, may be necessary to respond to any assertions of infringement, enforce our patent rights and/or determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of third parties. Litigation could involve substantial cost, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any such proceedings. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our business. Since we currently market our products in over 40 countries throughout the world, a significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency. As a result, fluctuations in value relative to the U.S. dollar of the currencies in which we conduct our business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses arising from normal business operations are charged against earnings in the period when incurred. We hedge a portion of the anticipated cash flow that we expect to exchange into other currencies, subject to our short-term financing needs. Due to the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. While we engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions to manage our foreign currency exposure, there can be no assurance that our hedging strategy will adequately protect our operating results from the effects of future exchange rate fluctuations. Our ability to accurately forecast our results during each quarter may be negatively impacted by the fact that a substantial percentage of our sales may be recorded in the final weeks or days of the quarter. The markets we serve are characterized by a high percentage of purchase orders being received in the final few weeks or even days of each quarter. Although this varies from quarter to quarter, many customers make a large portion of their purchase decisions late in each fiscal quarter, as both their budgets and requirements for the coming quarter become clearer. As a result, even late in each fiscal quarter, we cannot predict with certainty whether our revenue forecasts for the quarter will be achieved. Historically, we have been able to rely on the overall pattern of customer purchase orders during prior periods to project with reasonable accuracy our anticipated sales for the current or coming quarters. However, if our customers’ purchases during a quarter vary from historical patterns, our final quarterly results could deviate significantly from our projections. Consequently, our revenue forecasts for any given quarter may prove not to have been accurate. We may not have enough information as a result of such patterns to confirm or revise our sales projections during a quarter. If we fail to achieve our forecasted revenues for a particular quarter, our stock price could be adversely affected. Competition in the Life Sciences market could reduce sales. Our primary competition stems from traditional separation, purification and handling methods (“traditional” or “home-brew” methods) that utilize widely available reagents and other chemicals. The success of our business depends in part on the continued conversion of current users of such traditional methods to our nucleic acid separation and purification technologies and products. There can be no assurance, however, as to how quickly such conversion will occur. 8 Table of Contents We also have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, increasing competition in various segments of our business from companies providing pre-analytical products and other products we offer. The markets for certain of our products are very competitive and price sensitive. Other life science research product suppliers have significant financial, operational, sales and marketing resources, and experience in research and development. These and other companies may have developed or could in the future develop new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products obsolete. If a competitor develops superior technology or cost-effective alternatives to our kits and other products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We believe that customers in the market for preanalytical solutions and assay technologies display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product. Therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to customers who have purchased products from competitors. To the extent we are unable to be the first to develop and supply new products, our competitive position will suffer. Reduction in research and development budgets and government funding may result in reduced sales. Our customers include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and government and private laboratories. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets of these researchers and their organizations for applications in which our products are used could have a significant effect on the demand for our products. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities and institutional budgetary policies. Our business could be seriously damaged by any significant decrease in life sciences research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions or government and private laboratories. In addition, short term changes in administrative, regulatory or purchasing-related procedures can create uncertainties or other impediments which can contribute to lower sales. In recent years, the pharmaceutical biotech industries have undergone substantial restructuring and consolidation. Additional mergers or corporate consolidations in the pharmaceutical industry could cause us to lose existing customers and potential future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our sales have been to researchers, universities, government laboratories and private foundations whose funding is dependent upon grants from government agencies such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies. Although the level of research funding has increased during the past several years, we cannot assure you that this trend will continue. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. The predictability of our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial budget proposals. Also, government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and other government agencies that fund research and development activities. A reduction in government funding for the NIH or other government research agencies could seriously and negatively impact our business. We heavily rely on air cargo carriers and other overnight logistics services. Our customers within the scientific research markets typically do not keep a significant inventory of QIAGEN products and consequently require overnight delivery of purchases. As such, we heavily rely on air cargo carriers such as DHL, FedEx and Panalpina. If overnight services are suspended or delayed and other delivery carriers cannot provide satisfactory services, customers may suspend a significant amount of work requiring nucleic acid purification. If there are no adequate delivery alternatives available, sales levels could be negatively affected. 9 Table of Contents We depend on suppliers and if shipments from these suppliers are delayed or interrupted, we will be unable to manufacture our products. We buy materials for our products from many suppliers, and are not dependent on any one supplier or group of suppliers for our business as a whole. However, key components of certain products, including certain instrumentation components and chemicals, are available only from a single source. If supplies from these vendors were delayed or interrupted for any reason, we may not be able to obtain these materials timely or in sufficient quantities or qualities in order to produce certain products and our sales levels could be negatively affected. We rely on collaborative commercial relationships to develop some of our products. Our long-term business strategy has included entering into strategic alliances and marketing and distribution arrangements with academic, corporate and other partners relating to the development, commercialization, marketing and distribution of certain of our existing and potential products. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to negotiate such collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms, or that any such relationships will be scientifically or commercially successful. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such relationships or that our collaborative partners will not pursue or develop competing products or technologies, either on their own or in collaboration with others. Doing business internationally creates certain risks for our business. Our business involves operations in several countries outside of the United States. Our consumable manufacturing facilities are located in Germany, China, Canada and the United States, and our instrumentation facility is located in Switzerland. We also have established sales subsidiaries in the United States, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, France, Switzerland, Australia, Canada, Austria, The Netherlands, Sweden, and Italy. In addition, our products are sold through independent distributors serving more than 40 other countries. We operate U.S. facilities in West Chester, Pennsylvania (sales and research and development), Valencia, California (customer service and technical service), Germantown, Maryland and San Francisco, California (manufacturing and research and development). Conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. We have invested heavily in computerized information systems in order to manage more efficiently the widely dispersed components of our operations. We use SAP as our business information system to integrate most of our North American, European, and Japanese subsidiaries. Our operations are also subject to other risks inherent in international business activities, such as general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, overlap of different tax structures, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, and longer accounts receivable payment cycles in certain countries. Other risks associated with international operations include import and export licensing requirements, trade restrictions, exchange controls and changes in tariff and freight rates. As a result of these conditions, an inability to successfully manage our international operations could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We have made investments in and are expanding our business into emerging markets and regions, which exposes us to new risks. During 2006 and 2005 we began expanding our business in emerging markets in Asia and we expect to continue to focus on growing our business in these regions. In addition to the currency and international operation risks described above, our international operations are subject to a variety of risks including risks arising out of the economy, the political outlook and the language and cultural barriers in countries where we have operations or do business. In many of these emerging markets, we may be faced with several risks that are more significant than in the other countries in which we have a history of doing business. These risks include economies that may be dependent on only a few products and are therefore subject to significant fluctuations, 10 Table of Contents weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights, possible exchange controls, unstable governments, privatization actions or other government actions affecting the flow of goods and currency. In conducting our business we move products from one country to another and may provide services in one country from a subsidiary located in another country. Accordingly, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in customs and tax regimes that may have significant negative impacts on our financial condition and operating results. Our business in countries with a history of corruption and transactions with foreign governments increases the risks associated with our international activities. As we operate and sell internationally, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in countries known to experience corruption. Further international expansion may involve more exposure to such practices. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends on the continued employment of our key personnel, any of whom we may lose at any time. Our senior management consists of an Executive Committee comprised of our most senior executives responsible for core functions, the Chairman of which is Mr. Peer Schatz, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Schatz or any of our Managing Directors could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, although we have not experienced any difficulties attracting or retaining key management and scientific staff, our ability to recruit and retain qualified skilled personnel will also be critical to our success. Due to the intense competition for experienced scientists from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic and other research institutions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel on acceptable terms. Our planned activities will also require additional personnel, including management, with expertise in areas such as manufacturing and marketing, and the development of such expertise by existing management personnel. The inability to recruit such personnel or develop such expertise could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our business may require substantial additional capital, which we may not be able to obtain on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our future capital requirements and level of expenses will depend upon numerous factors, including the costs associated with: • our marketing, sales and customer support efforts; • our research and development activities; • the expansion of our facilities; • the consummation of possible future acquisitions of technologies, products or businesses; • the demand for our products and services; and • the refinancing of debt. 11 Table of Contents We currently anticipate that our short-term capital requirements will be satisfied by the results of operations. However, we have outstanding loan facilities at December 31, 2006 of approximately $496 million, of which $6.6 million is due in June 2008, $39.6 million is due in annual installments from June 2006 through June 2011, $150.0 million which will become due in August 2011, and $300.0 million which will become due in May 2013. To the extent that our existing resources are insufficient to fund our activities, we may need to raise funds through public or private debt or equity financings. No assurance can be given that such additional funds will be available or, if available, can be obtained on terms acceptable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to reduce expenditures for research and development, production or marketing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. Our strategic equity investments may result in losses. We have made and may continue to make strategic investments in complementary businesses as the opportunities arise. We periodically review the carrying value of these investments for impairment, considering factors such as the most recent stock transactions, book values from the most recent financial statements, and forecasts and expectations of the investee. The results of these valuations may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. Estimating the fair value of non-marketable equity investments in life science companies is inherently subjective. If actual events differ from our assumptions and other than temporary unfavorable fluctuations in the valuations of the investments are indicated, it could require a write-down of the investment. This could result in future charges on our earnings that could materially impact our results of operations. It is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long term benefits from these strategic investments. We have a significant amount of long-term debt which may adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt which carries with it significant debt service obligations. A high level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt or that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to repay or refinance such debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, we may have to delay or curtail our research and development programs. The level of our indebtedness among other things could: • make it difficult for us to make required payments on our debt; • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. Changing government regulations may adversely impact our business. We and our customers operate in a highly regulated environment characterized by continuous changes in the governing regulatory framework. Genetic research activities as well as products commonly referred to as “genetically engineered,” such as certain food and therapeutic products, are subject to governmental regulation in most developed countries, especially in the major markets for pharmaceutical and diagnostic products (i.e., the European Union, the United States, and Japan). In the recent past, several highly publicized scientific successes (most notably in the areas of genomic research and “cloning”) have stirred a public debate in which ethical, philosophical and religious arguments have been raised against an unlimited expansion of genetic research and the use of products developed thereby. As a result of this debate, some key countries might increase the existing regulatory barriers; this, in turn, could adversely affect the demand for our products and prevent us from 12 Table of Contents fulfilling our growth expectations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any future changes of applicable regulations will not require further expenditures or an alteration, suspension or liquidation of our operations in certain areas, or even in their entirety. Changes in the existing regulations or adoption of new requirements or policies could adversely affect our ability to sell our approved products or to seek to introduce new products in other countries in the world. Sales volumes of certain of our products in development may be dependent on commercial sales by us or by our customers of diagnostic and pharmaceutical products, which will require pre-clinical studies and clinical trials and other regulatory clearance. Such trials will be subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, including the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), international agencies and agencies in other countries with comparable responsibilities. These trials involve substantial uncertainties and could impact customer demand for our products. In addition, certain of our products, especially products intended for use in in-vitro diagnostics applications, are dependent on regulatory or other clearance. For example, since the European Union Directive 98/79/EC on in vitro diagnostic medical devices, or EU-IvD-D, went into effect on December 7, 2003, all products and kits which are used for in vitro diagnostic applications and which are sold after this date have to be compliant with this European directive. In addition to high risk products such as HIV testing systems (list A of Annex II of the directive) or blood glucose testing systems (list B of Annex II of the directive), nucleic acid purification products which are used in diagnostic workflows are affected by this new regulatory framework. The major goals of this directive are to standardize the diagnostic procedures within the European Union, to increase reliability of diagnostic analysis and to enhance patients’ safety through the highest level of product safety. These goals are expected to be achieved by the enactment of a large number of mandatory regulations for product development, production, quality control and life cycle surveillance. Our failing to obtain any required clearance or approvals may significantly damage our business in such segments. Additionally, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with laws and regulations in the future, and changes or additions to existing laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various laws and regulations generally applicable to businesses in the different jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws and regulations applicable to the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. We do not expect compliance with such laws to have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Although we believe that our procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could have a material adverse effect on us. Risk of price controls is a threat to our profitability. The ability of many of our customers to successfully market their products depends in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of these products is available from governmental health administrations, private health insurers and other organizations. Governmental and other third party payers are increasingly seeking to contain health care costs and to reduce the price of medical products and services. Therefore, the biotechnology, diagnostics and pharmaceutical industries are exposed to the potential risk of price controls by these entities. If there are not adequate reimbursement levels, the commercial success of our customers and, hence, of QIAGEN itself, could be adversely affected. Our business exposes us to potential liability. The marketing and sale of our products and services for certain applications entail a potential risk of product liability, and, although we are not currently subject to any material product liability claims, there can be no assurance that product liability claims will not be brought against us. Further, there can be no assurance that our products will not be included in unethical, illegal or inappropriate research or applications, which may in turn put 13 Table of Contents us at risk of litigation. We currently carry product liability insurance coverage, which is limited in scope and amount, but which we believe is currently appropriate for our purposes. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain such insurance at reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, or that such insurance will be adequate to protect us against any or all potential claims or losses. Our holding company structure makes us dependent on the operations of our subsidiaries. We were incorporated under Dutch law as a public limited liability company (naamloze venootschap) and we are organized as a holding company. Currently, our material assets are the outstanding shares of our subsidiaries. We, therefore, are dependent upon payments, dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries for funds to pay our operating and other expenses and to pay future cash dividends or distributions, if any, to holders of our common shares. The lending arrangements entered into by QIAGEN GmbH limits the amount of distributions that can be made by QIAGEN GmbH to QIAGEN N.V. during the period the borrowings are outstanding. This facility will expire in June 2011. Dividends or distributions by subsidiaries to us in a currency other than the U.S. dollar may result in a loss upon a subsequent conversion or disposition of such foreign currency, including a subsequent conversion into U.S. dollars. Risks Related to Our Common Shares Our common shares may have a volatile public trading price. The market price of the common shares since our initial public offering in September 1996 has increased significantly and been highly volatile. In the past two fiscal years, the closing price of our common shares has ranged from a high of $16.15 to a low of $10.56 on the NASDAQ National Market System, and a high of EUR 13.09 to a low of EUR 8.20 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. In addition to overall stock market fluctuations, factors which may have a significant impact on the market price of the common shares include: • announcements of technological innovations or the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • developments in our relationships with collaborative partners; • quarterly variations in our operating results or those of companies related to us; • changes in government regulations or patent laws; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • developments in government spending for life sciences related research; and • general market conditions relating to the diagnostics, applied testing, pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market for technology-based companies and that have not necessarily been related to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Holders of our common shares will not receive dividend income. We have not paid cash dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common shares for the foreseeable future. Although we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends, any cash dividends paid in a currency other than the U.S. dollar will be subject to the risk of foreign currency transaction losses. Investors should not invest in our common shares if they are seeking dividend income; the only return that may be realized through investing in our common shares is through the appreciation in value of such shares. 14 Table of Contents Shareholders who are United States residents could be subject to unfavorable tax treatment. We may be classified as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if certain tests are met. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the holders of common shares and would likely cause a reduction in the value of such shares. If we were determined to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to our U.S. shareholders. We would be considered a PFIC with respect to a U.S. shareholder if for any taxable year in which the U.S. shareholder held the common shares, either (i) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income; or (ii) the average value of our assets (during the taxable year) which produce or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the average value of all assets for such year. Based on our current income, assets and activities, we do not believe that we are currently a PFIC. No assurances can be made, however, that the IRS will not challenge this position or that we will not subsequently become a PFIC. Future sales of our common shares could adversely affect our stock price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of the common shares. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding 150,167,540 common shares plus 11.7 million additional shares subject to outstanding stock options, of which 11.5 million were then exercisable. A total of approximately 17.7 million common shares are reserved and available for issuances under our stock plan, including those shares subject to outstanding stock options. The resale of common shares issued in connection with the exercise of certain stock options are subject to some restrictions. All of our outstanding common shares are freely saleable except shares held by our affiliates, which are subject to certain limitations on resale. Additionally, holders of notes issued by QIAGEN Finance (Luxembourg) S.A. and QIAGEN Euro Finance (Luxembourg) S.A. are entitled to convert their notes into approximately 26.9 million common shares, subject to adjustments in certain cases. Provisions of our Articles of Association and Dutch law and an option we have granted may make it difficult to replace or remove management and may inhibit or delay a takeover. Our Articles of Association, or Articles, provide that our shareholders may only suspend or dismiss our managing and supervisory directors against their wishes with a vote of two-thirds of the votes cast representing more than 50% of the outstanding shares unless the proposal was made by the joint meeting of the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board in which case a simple majority is sufficient. They also provide that if the members of our Supervisory Board and our Managing Board have been nominated by the joint meeting of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board, shareholders may only overrule this nomination with a vote of two-thirds of the votes cast representing more than 50% of the outstanding shares. Certain other provisions of our Articles allow us, under certain circumstances, to prevent a third party from obtaining a majority of the voting control of our shares by issuing preference shares. Pursuant to these provisions and pursuant to the resolution adopted by our general meeting on June 16, 2004, our Supervisory Board is authorized to issue preference shares or grant rights to subscribe for preference shares if (i) a person has (directly or indirectly) acquired or has expressed a desire to acquire, more than 20% of our issued share capital, or (ii) a person holding at least a 10% interest in our share capital has been designated as a hostile person by our Supervisory Board. If the Supervisory Board opposes an intended take-over and authorizes the issuance of preference shares, the bidder may withdraw its bid or enter into negotiations with the Managing Board and /or Supervisory Board and agree on a higher bid price for our shares. In 2004 we also granted an option to a Foundation (Stichting), subject to the conditions described in the paragraph above, which allows the Foundation to acquire preference shares from us. The option enables the Foundation to acquire such number of preference shares as equals the number of our outstanding common shares at the time of the relevant exercise of the right less one share. When exercising the option and exercising its voting rights on such shares, the Foundation must act in our interest and the interests of our stakeholders. The purpose of the Foundation option is to prevent or delay a change of control that would not be in the best interests of us and our stakeholders. See “Description of Share Capital—Preference Shares.” 15 Table of Contents United States civil liabilities may not be enforceable against us. We are incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands and substantial portions of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, certain members of our Managing and Supervisory Boards, our officers and certain experts named herein reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such other persons, or to enforce outside the U.S. judgments obtained against such persons in U.S. courts, in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, rights predicated upon the U.S. securities laws. There is no treaty between the United States and The Netherlands for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws, would not be directly enforceable in The Netherlands. However, if the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered brings a new suit in a competent court in The Netherlands, such party may submit to the Dutch court the final judgment which has been rendered in the United States. If the Dutch court finds that the jurisdiction of the federal or state court in the United States has been based on grounds which are internationally acceptable and that proper legal procedures have been observed, the Dutch court will, in principle, give binding effect to the final judgment which has been rendered in the United States unless such judgment contravenes Dutch principles of public policy. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance that U.S. investors will be able to enforce against us, members of our Managing or Supervisory Boards, officers or certain experts named herein who are residents of The Netherlands or countries other than the United States any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the federal securities laws. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us, the members of our Managing or Supervisory Boards, our officers or certain experts named herein in an original action predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in The Netherlands against us or such members, officers or experts, respectively. 