ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common shares could decline due to any of these risks or other factors, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Our business depends upon the services of key personnel. Our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and to grow our business depends upon the services of a few key personnel, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business and overall results of operations. The loss of key personnel or damage to their reputations could adversely affect our relationships with our strategic service providers, which would adversely affect our business. We may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to successfully integrate businesses we acquire into our operations. Our growth strategy might include acquiring other businesses. However, we may not be able to identify and acquire targeted businesses or, to the extent required, obtain financing for such acquisitions on satisfactory terms. Integrating acquired businesses into our operations may also involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: • the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating an acquisition, • the diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations, • the difficulty in integrating widely dispersed operations with distinct corporate cultures, • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business, • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technologies successfully, • the potential impairment of relationships with employees, clients and strategic partners, and • the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. Customer satisfaction or performance problems at a single acquired business could adversely affect the reputation of our entire business. Future acquisitions may be financed through the issuance of common shares, which may dilute the ownership of our shareholders, or through the incurrence of indebtedness. Acquisitions may also result in significant charges to earnings. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that competition for acquisition candidates will not escalate, thereby increasing the costs of making acquisitions or making suitable acquisitions more difficult to find. 10 We are subject to the risk that a taxation authority could challenge certain filing positions we have taken, and that a successful challenge could require us to pay significant additional taxes. Although we believe that all filing positions we take in our tax returns are reasonable and appropriate, there is no assurance that a taxation authority will not challenge those positions. Such challenges could include disputing positions taken in connection with the transfer of our online gaming processing business to FireOne Group in 2005, and the subsequent public offering of a portion of the FireOne Group plc ordinary shares. A challenge to certain filing positions we have taken, if successful despite our best efforts to defend our original position, could result in us being required to pay additional taxes (including penalties and interest) and the amount of such additional taxes could be material to us. Our payments businesses are at risk of loss due to fraud, disputes and merchant insolvency. We face risks of loss due to fraud and disputes between consumers and merchants, including the unauthorized use of credit card and bank account information and identity theft, merchant fraud, disputes over the quality of goods and services, breaches of system security, employee fraud and use of our system for illegal or improper purposes. When a consumer pays a merchant for goods or services using a credit card and the cardholder disputes the charge, the amount of the disputed item gets charged back to us and the credit card association may levy fees against us. Chargebacks may arise from the unauthorized use of a cardholder's card number or from a cardholder's claim that a merchant failed to perform. Disputes may also arise when a consumer pays a merchant for goods or services using a check and the financial institution returns the check. In addition, if our chargeback or dispute rate becomes excessive, credit card and check clearing associations may require us to pay fines and have done so in the past. There is a risk that we may be required to pay fines in the future and the amount of such fines may be material. While we attempt to recover from the merchant the amount charged back and the amount of fines imposed upon us by credit card and check clearing associations, we may not always be successful in doing so for various reasons, such as merchant insolvency. We may not be able to safeguard against security and privacy breaches in our electronic transactions. A security or privacy breach could: • expose us to additional liability and to potentially costly litigation; • increase expenses relating to the resolution of these breaches; • deter customers from using our services; and • decrease market acceptance of electronic commerce transactions generally. We cannot assure that the use of applications designed for data security and integrity will address changing technologies or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers. Although we require that our agreements with service providers who have access to merchant and consumer data include confidentiality obligations that restrict these parties from using or disclosing any consumer or merchant data except as necessary to perform their services under the applicable agreements, there can be no assurance that these contractual measures will prevent the unauthorized disclosure of merchant or consumer data. If we are unable to protect the security and privacy of our electronic transactions and data, our business volume and profitability will be materially adversely affected. Our payments systems might be used for illegal or improper purposes. Despite our measures to detect and prevent identity theft, unauthorized used of credit cards, and similar misconduct, and to monitor and comply with laws and regulations restricting or prohibiting the business lines of our merchant customers, our payments systems remain susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. These uses may include illegal online gaming, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, software and other intellectual property piracy, money laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products and online securities fraud. Illegal or improper use of our payments systems may lead to increased government regulation of us or other legal consequences which may have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. Laws or regulations that restrict or prohibit the business activities of our merchant customers may prevent us from providing, or may make it impracticable for us to continue to provide, our payments systems to such merchants and their customers, which would adversely affect our revenues from our payments processing segment. In particular, the legal and regulatory environment surrounding the online sale and distribution of prescription medications into and within the United States is complex and evolving, and we continue to closely monitor the impact that developments in this area may have on our ability to continue to provide payment processing services for this sector. Legal and regulatory developments that have an adverse impact on these transactions may significantly reduce or eliminate the payment processing revenues that we generate from pharmacies offering sale of prescription medications online and their customers. 11 We must comply with credit card and check clearing association rules and practices, which could impose additional costs and burdens on our payments businesses. As a registered party, we must comply with the operating rules of various credit card associations and check clearing associations, such as the National Automated Clearing House Association for checks. The associations' members set these rules. The associations could adopt operating rules with which it may be difficult or impossible for us to comply. In addition, cases of fraud or disputes between consumers and merchants can result in chargebacks. If our chargebacks or disputes become excessive, our processing suppliers could fine us or terminate our ability to accept credit cards or checks for payments. The termination of our relationship with credit card or check clearing associations, or acquiring banks, would limit our ability to provide transaction processing services. We may not be able to develop new services that are accepted by our customers. The success of our electronic payments operations depends upon acceptance of our technology. It is possible that we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new services and enhancements, or that our new services and enhancements will not be introduced in a timely fashion or will not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. The failure of our systems, the systems of third parties or the Internet could negatively impact our business systems and harm our reputation for reliability. Computer viruses, disgruntled or rogue employees, electronic break-ins, power losses, telecommunications failures, security breaches, natural disasters and similar events could damage or disrupt the function of our systems and those of third parties upon whom we rely, such as bank processing and credit card systems. Our businesses and reputation could be adversely affected if these systems were disabled by any of these occurrences. Our existing or future insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in these systems. Higher transaction volumes may require us to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. We could experience periodic, temporary capacity constraints, which may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times and lower levels of customer service. We may be unable to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our services or to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases in a timely manner. Users of electronic payment services are particularly concerned about the security of transmissions over public networks. Individuals may attempt to circumvent the measures that we take to protect customer transaction data. Security breaches that result in the disclosure of proprietary information, such as bank account or credit card information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss, litigation and possible liability. In order to prepare for certain types of system problems, our payments business has developed a formal disaster recovery plan, however, there is no assurance that any disaster recovery plan that we might implement will protect us from all possible system failures. 12 Increasing government regulation of Internet commerce could make it more costly or difficult to conduct our businesses. As Internet commerce continues to develop, it may become the subject of increasing government regulation. Much of the current legislation relating to commercial transactions pre-dates and may be incompatible with Internet electronic commerce. Well-established financial institutions and credit card companies may be able to influence the development of regulations that prioritize their interests to our detriment. Regulators may choose to enact or enforce legislation that restricts our operations and other aspects of the electronic commerce market. Moreover, it may take years to determine the extent to which existing laws relating to issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet. Existing legislation in Canada, the United States and abroad regulates communications or commerce specifically. However, the application of such laws in the context of the Internet and electronic commerce is uncertain. Laws and regulations that address issues such as user privacy, pricing, online content regulation, taxation and the characteristics and quality of online services are under consideration by federal, provincial, state, local and foreign governments and agencies. New laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or applications or interpretations of existing laws, that decrease the growth in the use of the Internet or demand for our electronic commerce services, or that increase the costs associated with providing such services or transmitting data over the Internet could adversely affect our results of operations. If our relationships with our banking partners deteriorated, our ability to process transactions could be impaired or halted. We rely on strategic partnerships and suppliers to help supply, promote and distribute our services. We particularly depend upon our strategic banking relationships. The credit card association members and financial institutions that process our electronic transactions have adopted guidelines that apply to these and online gaming transactions. While we believe that our operations comply with these guidelines, credit card association members and financial institutions could nonetheless decide in the future to refuse to process transactions for us, or with respect to FireOne Group, to process online gaming transactions generally. Such a decision could be implemented with little or no advance notice to us. If such a situation occurred and we were not able to conclude alternative arrangements with other credit card association members or financial institutions, our ability to carry out payment transactions could be impaired or even halted. It may be difficult or costly to enforce our rights with respect to assets held in foreign jurisdictions. Certain of our suppliers’ processing agreements require us to maintain cash reserves with such suppliers. In some instances, these suppliers are located in overseas jurisdictions, including the Caribbean and Europe. If a processing supplier does not release our reserves in accordance with its contractual obligations, we will be required to take legal action within that foreign jurisdiction. Recovering funds held as reserves through legal action in foreign jurisdictions could be costly and difficult and the diversion of resources required to pursue the funds could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our intellectual property rights may be infringed by unauthorized third parties. We rely upon a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure and release of interest in intellectual property agreements and license agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our service offerings and technology. The source codes for our service offerings and technology are protected both as trade secrets and as unpublished, unregistered copyrighted works. However, we currently have no patents for our service offerings and technology. 13 Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our services or technology without authorization or to develop similar technology independently. Policing unauthorized use of our services is and will continue to be difficult, particularly in light of the global nature of our operations, and the laws of other jurisdictions may offer us little or no effective protection of our intellectual property rights. We rely in part on "on-screen" licenses, which are not manually signed by end-users and, therefore, may be unenforceable under some laws. We may bring litigation proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights; however, such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources. In addition, there is no assurance that our services are not within the scope of intellectual property rights held by others, either now or in the future. If a claim is asserted against us by a third party, we may be forced to seek a license from that third party for the use of the applicable intellectual property. Such a license, if required, may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We operate in a competitive market for our services. Our potential competitors in our payments business include credit card association members, financial institutions, payment processors and other entities, some of which may have greater financial resources than we do, more firmly entrenched market positions or greater brand recognition. These potential competitors may require that their own technology, rather than the technology of third parties such as us, be used in connection with their payment mechanisms. Competition is likely to intensify as our market develops and matures, which could result in downward pressure on our prices, reduce our margins and erode our market share. We may not be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new services or offer new services that appeal to our customers as fast as our competitors will or that will respond effectively to technological changes or product innovations by our competitors. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements or experience significant delays in product developments or roll-outs, we may lose our market share and our revenues could be adversely affected. We rely upon non-exclusive arrangements with independent sales agents to acquire and retain our customers. In addition to our internal sales and marketing efforts, we rely upon independent sales agents to acquire and retain our customers. Our arrangements with these independent sales agents are non-exclusive. Our sales agents may enter into arrangements with our competitors that provide preferential treatment to our competitors or they may terminate their arrangements with us. If we fail to maintain strong relationships with our independent sales agents or fail to provide our independent sales agents with sufficient incentives to motivate their sales efforts, our customer base may not expand. Our services are based on sophisticated technology, which may be negatively affected by technological defects and product development delays. Services based on sophisticated technology and computing systems often encounter development delays, and the underlying technology may contain undetected errors or failures when introduced or when the volume of services provided increases. We may experience delays in the development of our services or the technology and computing systems underlying our services, such as our transaction processing services. In addition, despite testing, it is possible that our technology may nevertheless contain errors, and this could delay product launches and innovations and damage our customer relations. 14 If our encryption technology fails to ensure secure electronic commerce transactions, we may become subject to liabilities and our customers may stop using our services. A significant element of electronic commerce and communication is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our electronic commerce software uses encryption and authentication technology to effect the secure transmission of confidential information. Although we strive to use only proven applications for premium data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that use of these applications will be sufficient to address changing market conditions or developments in technology or the security and privacy concerns of our existing and potential clients. A security or privacy breach may cause our clients to lose confidence in our services, deter clients from using our services, harm our reputation, expose us to liability, increase our expenses from potential remediation costs and decrease market acceptance and growth of our product offerings. We are subject to exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar. The majority of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars and a significant portion of our expenses is incurred in Canadian dollars. A fluctuation in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar may result in variations in our revenues and earnings. We have not implemented a currency hedging program. Our businesses are subject to fluctuations in general business conditions. General economic conditions have caused some of the merchants we serve to experience difficulty in supporting their current operations and implementing their business plans. If these merchants make fewer sales of their products and services, we will have fewer transactions to process, resulting in lower revenues. In addition, in a recessionary environment, the merchants we serve could be subject to a higher rate of insolvency, which could adversely affect us financially. We bear credit risk for chargebacks related to billing disputes between credit card holders and merchants. If a merchant seeks relief under bankruptcy laws or is otherwise unable or unwilling to pay, we may be liable for the full transaction amount of a chargeback. Due to recently enacted legislation in the United States, FireOne Group has ceased processing settlements for online gaming transactions originating from United States customers and, as a result, our revenues will decrease significantly and our business and results of operations will be materially adversely affected during at least the short-term. We may not be able to replace the revenues lost from the cessation of this business. On October 13, 2006, the United States Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 was enacted. The Act prohibits any person engaged in the business of betting or wagering from knowingly accepting payments related to unlawful bets or wagers transmitted over the Internet. The Act also instructs the U.S. Treasury Department and Federal Reserve to impose new obligations upon financial institutions and other payment processors to establish procedures designed to block online gaming-related financial transactions. It also expressly requires Internet bets and wagers to comply with the law of the jurisdiction where the wagers are initiated and received. Upon passage of the Act, FireOne Group ceased processing settlement transactions originating from United States customers that may be viewed as related to online gaming. The cessation of this portion of FireOne Group’s business has had, for the third and fourth quarters 2006, and will continue to have for at least the short-term, a material adverse effect on our revenues and our results of operations. We intend to actively pursue opportunities to replace the revenues that were lost due to FireOne Group’s cessation of processing transactions originating from U.S. consumers. However, we may not be able to identify and engage in other opportunities that will offset the loss of these revenues. 15 The legal status of online gaming is uncertain in some of the jurisdictions in which we continue to provide settlement processing services for online gaming activities. Future regulation or enforcement proceedings may make it costly or impossible for us to continue processing transactions for gaming merchants in those jurisdictions and may subject us to substantial penalties. Reports of regulatory initiatives or enforcement proceedings that are unfavorable to us or to our customers or suppliers may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. In many jurisdictions there are few, if any, laws or regulations that deal directly with payment processing for online gaming transactions. The legal status of online gaming itself is uncertain in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate. While some jurisdictions have taken the position that online gaming is legal and have adopted or are in the process of reviewing legislation to regulate online gaming, other jurisdictions have taken the opposite view and enacted legislation to attempt to restrict or prohibit online gaming. For example, the recently enacted United States Unlawful Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 prohibits any person engaged in the business of betting or wagering from knowingly accepting payments related to unlawful bets or wagers transmitted over the Internet, which resulted in FireOne Group ceasing to process settlement transactions originating from United States customers that may be viewed as related to online gaming. FireOne Group's exit from this business in the United States has had a substantial negative effect on our consolidated revenues and results of operations in the third and fourth quarters of 2006 and will have a significant impact on our results for at least the short term. If other governments also decide to enact legislation restricting or prohibiting online gaming activities in their jurisdictions, we may also have to cease processing settlement transactions in those jurisdictions. In addition, we may be exposed to adverse consequences as a result of future enforcement proceedings, governmental investigations or lawsuits initiated against us in jurisdictions where online gaming is or becomes restricted or prohibited, including the United States in the aftermath of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006. Any adverse findings, rulings or judgments rendered against us could involve substantial penalties, fines, injunctions or other sanctions being invoked against us and have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Any future enforcement or legal proceedings threatened or commenced against us relating to online gaming, whether or not ultimately successful, could involve substantial litigation expense and the diversion of the attention of key executives. The outcome of any litigation cannot be predicted. Future regulation, lawsuits, investigations, enforcement actions or other actions by law enforcement or regulatory authorities, whether directed against us, our competitors, customers or suppliers, may also make it costly or unfeasible for us to continue processing transactions for gaming merchants in the jurisdictions in which we continue such processing activities. Further, any actual or threatened legislative development or regulatory proceedings in those jurisdictions that negatively affects a participant in the online gaming industry could further adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. From time to time, reports about regulatory initiatives, or enforcement proceedings that are or would be unfavorable to us, or to our customers or suppliers, have had a swift and negative impact on the trading price of our common shares, and our common shares may again experience trading price volatility in the future due to such reports. Our status under certain financial services regulations is unclear. We operate in an industry subject to government regulation. We currently are subject to money laundering regulations and might now or in the future be subject to money transmitter or electronic money regulations, in various jurisdictions. If we are found to be in violation of any current or future regulations, we could be exposed to financial liability, including substantial fines which could be imposed on a per transaction basis and disgorgement of our profits; forced to change our business practices; or forced to cease doing business altogether or with the residents of one or more jurisdictions. We bear consumer risk in relation to our guaranteed electronic wallet and direct debit offerings. We offer our electronic wallet and direct debit services to our merchant customers on a guaranteed and a non-guaranteed basis. Merchants have the option of electing to receive funds from consumers which are free of any risk of consumer default. There can be no assurance that our risk management process will enable us to price our guaranteed service on terms that are favorable to us. Our failure to price the guaranteed service accurately could have a material adverse effect on our financial results because we guarantee the consumer’s payment. 16 We may be subject to additional litigation stemming from our operation of the U-scan self-checkout business. In 2004, we settled an action alleging that the U-Scan self-checkout systems that we marketed infringed upon the claimant’s patent. A second party has sent demand letters to us alleging a different patent infringement. We may in the future be subject to other litigation relating to our prior involvement in the self-checkout business. Defending against such litigation may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our current businesses, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have nothing to report under this item. 