Risk Factors Attendant to Resource Exploration and Development Resource exploration and development is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by the Company may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond the control of the Company and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environment protection, the combination of which factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on investmen t capital. Presently, the Company is in the exploration stage and there is no assurance that a commercially viable ore deposit (a reserve) exists in any of its properties or prospects until further exploration work is done and a comprehensive economic evaluation based upon that work is concluded. The Company retains an inventory of 1,597 ounces of gold from previous production by its predecessor (“Fairfield”) from the Siwash mine on the Elk property. The gold was mined in 1994 and shipped to the smelter in 1996. The gold produced was retained as inventory by Fairfield. Both the Company and its predecessor have financed their operations principally through the sale of equity securities and entering into joint venture arrangements, and in Fairfield’s case, the sale of its inventory of gold. The Company’s ability to continue operations is dependent on the ability of the Company to obtain additional financing. Uncertainty in Discovering Commercially Mineable Ore Deposits There is no certainty that the expenditures to be made by the Company in the exploration of its properties and prospects as described herein will result in discoveries of mineralized material in commercial quantities. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable ore deposits and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of ore reserves will in fact be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Estimates of reserves, mineral deposits and production costs can also be affected by such factors as environmental permitting regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. In addition, the grade of ore ultimately mined may differ from that indicated by drill ing results. Short term factors relating to ore reserves, such as the need for orderly development of ore bodies or the processing of new or different grades, may also have an adverse effect on mining operations and on the results of operations. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small-scale tests will be duplicated in large-scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale. Material changes in ore reserves, grades, stripping ratios or recovery rates may affect the economic viability of any project. History of Net Losses, Lack of Cash Flow and Assurance of Profitability` The Company had net losses in a number of years since its date of incorporation – 9/25/1980. Due to the nature of the Company’s business, there can be no assurance that the Company will be profitable under Canadian GAAP. The Company had net losses of $4,268,775 in Fiscal 2006, $1,095,215 in Fiscal 2005 and $3,065,803 in Fiscal 2004. The cumulative net loss of the Company as at December 31, 2006 was $22,766,634. The Company currently has no revenues from operations as all of its properties and prospects are in the exploration stage. There is no assurance that the Company will receive revenues from operations at any time in 16 the near future. The Company has had no prior year’s history of earnings or cash flow other than the NSR royalty from the La Trinidad Mine and the bulk sampling on the Elk gold property. Neither the Company nor its predecessor has paid dividends on their shares since incorporation and the Company does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. Historically, the only source of funds available to the Company was through the sale of its equity shares and entering into joint venture agreements. The only source of funds available to the Company’s predecessor was through the sale of its inventory of gold, the sale of its equity shares and entering into joint venture agreements. Any future additional equity financing would cause dilution to current stockholders. Uncertainty of Obtaining Additional Funding Requirements If the Company’s exploration programs are successful, additional capital will be required for the development of an economic ore body and to place it in commercial production. The only sources of future funds presently available to the Company are the sale of its inventory or gold, sale of equity capital or the offering by the Company of an interest in its properties and prospects to be earned by another party or parties carrying out further development thereof. Failure to obtain additional financing on a timely basis could cause the Company to forfeit its interest in such properties, dilute its interests in the properties and/or reduce or terminate its operations. Possible Dilution to Present and Prospective Shareholders The Company’s plan of operation, in part, contemplates the financing of the conduct of its business by the issuance of cash, securities of the Company, or a combination of the two, and possibly, incurring debt. Any transaction involving the issuance of previously authorized but unissued shares of common stock, or securities convertible into common stock, would result in dilution, possibly substantial, to present and prospective holders of common stock. The Company usually seeks joint venture partners to fund in whole or in part exploration projects. This dilutes the Company’s interest in properties it has acquired. Mineral Prices May Not Support Corporate Profit The mining industry in general is intensely competitive and there is no assurance that, even if commercial quantities of mineral resources are developed, a profitable market will exist for the sale of same. Factors beyond the control of the Company may affect the marketability of any substances discovered. The price of minerals is volatile over short periods of time, and is affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Company, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates and global or regional consumption patterns, speculative activities and increased production due to improved mining techniques. Material changes in mineral prices may affect the economic viability of any project. Environmental Regulations The current and anticipated future operations of the Company, including development activities and commencement of production on its properties, require permits from various federal, territorial and local governmental authorities and such operations are and will be governed by laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. Companies engaged in the development and operation of mines and related facilities generally experience increased costs, and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. The Company’s exploration activities and its potential mining and processing operations are subject to various laws governing land use, the protection of the environment, prospecting, development, production, expo rts, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine safety and other matters. Such operations and exploration activities are also subject to substantial regulation under these laws by governmental agencies and may require that the Company obtain permits from various governmental agencies. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all material laws and regulations which currently apply to its activities. There can be no assurance, however, that all permits which the Company may require for construction of mining facilities and conduct of mining operations will be obtainable on reasonable terms or that such laws and regulations, or that new legislation or modifications to existing legislation, would not have an adverse effect on any exploration or mining project which the Company might undertake. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be 17 curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions. Parties engaged in exploration and mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violation of applicable laws or regulations. The enactment of new laws or amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on the Company and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. As a requirement for performing certain exploration activities, the Company has $76,500 on deposit as reclamation bonds for exploration work and site disturbance on the Elk and prospects in Canada. These allocated funds have been deposited for the benefit of the Province of British Columbia until released upon approval from the Province after all necessary reclamation work on the properties has been performed. If the reclamation is more prolonged and requires funds in addition to those already allocated, the Company could be forced to pay for the extra work and it could have a significant negative impact upon the Company’s financial position and operations. No Guarantee of Title to Mineral Properties While the Company and it’s predecessor have investigated title to all of its mineral properties and prospects, and, to the best of its knowledge, title to all of its properties and prospects in which it has the right to acquire or earn an interest are in good standing as of the date of this Annual Report, this should not be construed as a guarantee of title. The properties and prospects may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers unknown to the Company and title may be affected by undetected defects, e.g. defects in staking or acquisition process. As there are unresolved native land claim issues in British Columbia and the Yukon Territory, the Company’s properties and prospects in these jurisdictions may be affected in the future. The MOR prospect is on category B lands which means the local native group has surface rights to the area of the claims and their permission is required to perform work on the claims. If title is disputed, the Company will have to defend its ownership through the courts, which would likely be an expensive and protracted process and have a negative effect on the Company’s operations and financial condition. In the event of an adverse judgment, the Company could lose its property rights. Trading Volume The relatively low trading volume of the Company’s shares reduces the liquidity of an investment in the Company’s shares. Due to the reduced liquidity in the secondary markets, shareholders may find it more difficult to sell their shares. Volatility of Share Price Market prices for shares of early stage companies are often volatile. Factors such as announcements of mineral discoveries, exploration and financial results, and other factors could have a significant effect on the price of the Company’s shares. Material Risk of Dilution Presented by Large Number of Outstanding Share Purchase Options and Warrants As of March 8, 2007 there were share purchase options outstanding allowing the holders of these options to purchase 4,356,691 shares of common stock and share purchase warrants outstanding allowing the holders to purchase 370,541 shares of common stock. Directors and officers of the Company hold 3,781,691 of these share purchase options. An additional 575,000 share purchase options are held by employees and consultants of the Company. Directors and officers hold 29,500 of the share purchase warrants. An additional 10,000 share purchase warrants are held by employees of the Company. Given the fact that as of March 8, 2007 there were 44,066,047 shares of common stock outstanding, the exercise of all of the existing share purchase options and warrants would result in further dilution to the existing shareholders and could depress the price of the Company’s shares. 18 No Proven Reserves The properties and prospects in which the Company has an interest or the properties in which the Company has the right to earn an interest are in the exploratory stage only, are without a known body of ore and are not in commercial production. If the Company does not ultimately find a body of economically recoverable ore, it would either have to acquire additional exploration projects, or terminate is operations. Uncertainty of Reserves and Mineralization Estimates There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating proven and probable reserves and mineralization, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. The estimation of reserves and mineralization is a subjective process and the accuracy of any such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgement. Results of drilling, metallurgical testing and production and the evaluation of mine plans subsequent to the date of any estimate may justify revision of such estimates. No assurances can be given that the volume and grade of reserves recovered and rates of production will not be less than anticipated. Assumptions about prices are subject to greater uncertainty and metals prices have fluctuated widely in the past. Declines in the market price of base or precious metals also may render reserves or mineralization containing relatively lower grades of ore uneconomic to e xploit. Changes in operating and capital costs and other factors including, but not limiting to, short-term operating factors such as the need for sequential development of ore bodies and the processing of new or different ore grades, may materially and adversely affect reserves. Foreign Incorporation and Civil Liabilities The Company amalgamated under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada. All of the Company’s directors and officers are residents of Canada and substantially all of the Company’s assets and its subsidiary are located outside the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult for United States investors to effect service of process in the United States upon those directors and officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States upon judgements of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities whether under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise. Conflict of Interest Some of the Company’s directors and officers are directors and officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies. Duane Poliquin also serves as a director of Motapa Diamonds Inc. James E. McInnes also serves as a director and President of Williams Creek Explorations Limited and Horseshoe Gold Mining Inc. John D. (Jack) McCleary also serves as a director of Santoy Resources Ltd. Joseph Montgomery also serves as a director of Abitibi Mining Corp., Sedex Mining Corp., Anglo Minerals Ltd., Comcorp Ventures Inc., Klondike Gold Corp., Amador Gold Corp. and Golden Chalice Resources Inc. Gerald G. Carlson also serves as a director, President and CEO of Copper Ridge Explorations Inc., director of Nevada Star Resource Corp., Chairman of IMA Exploration Inc., director of Dentonia Resources Ltd., and director of Janina Resoures Limited. Barry W. Smee also serves as a director of Platinum Group Metals Ltd. These associations may give rise from time to time to conflicts of interest. As a result of which, the Company may miss the opportunity to participate in certain transactions. Foreign Operations The Company currently has exploration projects located in Mexico. The Company’s foreign activities are subject to the risk normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including exchange controls and currency fluctuations, limitations on repatriation of earnings, foreign taxation, laws or policies of particular countries, labor practices and disputes, and uncertain political and economic environments, as well as risks of war and civil disturbances, or other risk that could cause exploration or development difficulties or stoppages, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation or loss of contract rights or the taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation. Foreign operations could also be adversely impacted by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, investment and taxation. Foreign Currency Fluctuations At the present time, some of the Company’s activities are carried on outside of Canada. Accordingly, it is subject to risks associated with fluctuations of the rate of exchange between the Canadian dollar and foreign currencies. The Company is currently not engaged in currency hedging to offset any risk of exchange rate fluctuation and 19 currently has no plans to engage in currency hedging. Operating Hazards and Risks Associated with the Mining Industry Mining operations generally involve a high degree of risk, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations and other conditions are involved. Operations in which the Company has a direct or indirect interest will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of minerals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to or destruction of mines and other producing facilities, damage to or loss of life and property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for any or all damage or loss. The Company may become subject to liability for cave-ins and other hazards for which it cannot insure or against which it may elect not to insure where premium costs are disproportionate to the Company’s perception of the relevant risks. The payment of such insurance premiums and the incu rring of such liabilities would reduce the funds available for exploration activities. The Ability to Manage Growth Should the Company be successful in its efforts to develop its mineral properties or to raise capital for such development or for the development of other mining ventures it will experience significant growth in operations. If this occurs management anticipates that additional expansion will be required in order to continue development. Any expansion of the Company’s business would place further demands on its management, operational capacity and financial resources. The Company anticipates that it will need to recruit qualified personnel in all areas of its operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be effective in retaining its current personnel or attracting and retaining additional qualified personnel, expanding its operational capacity or otherwise managing growth. The failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Lack of a Dividend Policy The Company does not presently intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, as any earnings are expected to be retained for use in developing and expanding its business. However, the actual amount of dividends which the Company may pay will remain subject to the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and will depend on results of operations, cash requirements and future prospects of the Company and other factors. Competition There is competition from other mining exploration companies with operations similar to those of the Company's. Many of the mining companies with which the Company competes have operations and financial strength many times greater than that of the Company. Dependence on Key Personnel The Company depends highly on the business and technical expertise of its management and key personnel, in particular, Duane Poliquin and Morgan Poliquin. There is little possibility that this dependence will decrease in the near term. As the Company’s operations expand, additional general management resources will be required, especially since the Company encounters risks that are inherent in doing business in several countries. In Fiscal 2007, the Company has taken out an accidental death insurance policy on Duane Poliquin and is applying for the same for Morgan Poliquin. However, the loss or unavailability of any of its key personnel could have a negative effect on the Company’s ability to operate effectively. 