ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Some of the information in this Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “continue” and similar words. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they: (1) discuss our future expectations; (2) contain projections of our future operating results or financial condition; or (3) state other “forward-looking” information. However, we may not be able to predict future events accurately. The risk factors listed in this section, as well as any cautionary language in this Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K could materially and adversely affect our business. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Further, there can be no assurance that Aware will engage in any strategic transaction concerning its patent licensing operations, the form that any such transaction might take, or the timing of any such transaction. GENERAL BUSINESS RISKS Our Quarterly Results are Unpredictable and May Fluctuate Significantly Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to the unpredictably of our revenue components. It is difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of product revenue. Product revenue consists of sales of test and diagnostics hardware and software as well as biometrics and imaging software. Sales of hardware and software products fluctuate based upon demand by our customers and is difficult to predict. We generally ship customer orders as we receive them, and, therefore, we have no meaningful backlog of product orders. Since our product revenue includes sales of hardware products which typically have lower gross margins than our other sources of revenue, product gross margins and overall profitability are also difficult to predict. Contract revenue is also unpredictable. Making accurate predictions regarding the timing of contract revenue from new and existing customers is difficult. It is also difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of royalty revenues. Royalties are typically recognized in the quarter when we receive a report from a customer detailing sales and royalties due from the prior quarter, such as from the shipment of licensed integrated circuits. Royalties depend upon customer revenues which can be affected by factors beyond our ability to control or assess in advance. These factors include our customers’ ability to generate sales and fluctuating sales volumes and prices of products containing our technology. Our business is subject to a variety of risks, which could materially adversely affect quarterly and annual operating results, including: ● market acceptance of our hardware and software products; ● fluctuations in the demand for our hardware and software products; ● competitive pressures resulting in lower software or hardware product revenues; ● the loss of a significant OEM customer relationship; ● the loss by one of our OEM customers of one of its significant customers; ● the termination of a significant professional services project by a customer; ● announcements or introductions of new technologies or products by us or our competitors; ● delays or problems in the introduction or performance of enhancements or of future generations of our technology; ● failures or problems in our hardware or software products; ● pricing pressure from our competitors in the markets in which we compete; ● delays in the adoption of new industry standards or changes in market perception of the value of new or existing standards; ● personnel changes, particularly those involving engineering, technical, sales and marketing personnel; ● costs associated with protecting our intellectual property; ● the potential that customers could fail to make payments under their agreements with us; 11 ● hardware manufacturing issues, including yield problems in our hardware platforms, and inventory buildup and obsolescence; ● product gross margins may be affected by various factors including, but not limited to, product mix, product life cycle, and provisions for excess and obsolete inventory; ● new laws, changes to existing laws, or regulatory developments; and ● general economic trends and other factors. As a result of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our revenue levels and operating results are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on our quarterly revenue and operating results to predict our future performance. We Have Experienced Net Losses We had operating and net losses in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, and 2005, and operating losses in 2006, 2007, 2009, and 2010. We may experience losses in the future if: ● the test and diagnostics or biometrics markets decline; ● new and/or existing customers do not choose to use our software or hardware products; or ● customers do not choose to license and/or buy our patents. Our Business is Subject to Rapid Technological Change The telecommunications and biometrics industries are characterized by rapid technological change and uncertainty. In these industries, new generations of products are introduced regularly and evolutionary improvements to existing products are required. Therefore, we face risks that others could introduce competing technologies that render our technologies and products less desirable or obsolete. Also, the announcement of new technologies could cause: i) our customers to delay purchasing our products; or ii) our customers’ customers to delay purchasing OEM products that incorporate our products. Either of these events could seriously harm our business. We expect that our business will depend to a significant extent on our ability to introduce new generations of products as well as new technologies and products that keep pace with changes in these industries. We must continually devote significant engineering resources to achieving technical innovations and product developments. These developments are complex and require long development cycles. Moreover, we may have to make substantial investments in technological innovations and product developments before we can determine their commercial viability. We may lack sufficient financial resources to fund future development. Revenue from technological innovations, even if successfully developed, may not be sufficient to recoup the costs of development. Our Intellectual Property is Subject to Limited Protection Because we are a technology provider, our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others is critical to our success. We regard our technology as proprietary. Our patent portfolio includes approximately 185 U.S. and foreign patents as well as approximately 271 pending patent applications. We also rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark law and non-disclosure agreements to protect our unpatented intellectual property. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization. We typically work closely with our customers, who may also be potential competitors, and provide them with proprietary know-how. Although our agreements contain non-disclosure provisions and other terms protecting our proprietary know-how and technology rights, it is possible that, despite these precautions, some of our customers might obtain from us proprietary information that they could use to compete with us in the marketplace. Although we intend to defend our intellectual property as necessary, the steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation. In the future, we may be involved in legal action to enforce our intellectual property rights relating to our patents, copyrights or trade secrets. Any such litigation could be costly and time-consuming for us, even if we were to prevail. Moreover, even if we are successful in protecting our proprietary information, our competitors may independently develop technologies substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. The misappropriation of our technology or the development of competitive technology could seriously harm our business. 12 Our technology, software or hardware may infringe the intellectual property rights of others. A large and increasing number of participants in the telecommunications and compression industries have applied for or obtained patents. Some of these patent holders have demonstrated a readiness to commence litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. Third parties may assert patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. In the past, we have received claims from other companies that our technology infringes their patent rights. Intellectual property rights can be uncertain and can involve complex legal and factual questions. We may infringe the proprietary rights of others, which could result in significant liability for us. If we were found to have infringed any third party’s patents, we could be subject to substantial damages or an injunction preventing us from conducting our business. Our Business May Be Adversely Affected By Our Use of Open Source Software The software industry is making increasing use of open source software in the development of products. We also integrate certain open source software components from third parties into our software. Open source licenses may require that the software code in those components or the software into which they are integrated be freely accessible under open source terms. While we take precautions to protect open source software, we cannot exclude the possibility that third-party claims may require us to make freely accessible under open source terms a product of ours or non-Aware software upon which we depend. If we were required to make our software freely available, our business could be seriously harmed. Our Business May Be Affected by Government Regulations Extensive regulation by federal, state, and foreign regulatory agencies could adversely affect us in ways that are difficult for us to predict. In addition, our business may also be adversely affected by: i) the imposition of tariffs, duties and other import restrictions on components we purchase from non-domestic suppliers; or ii) by the imposition of export restrictions on products we sell internationally. Changes in current or future laws or regulations, in the United States or elsewhere, could seriously harm our business. Adverse Economic Conditions Could Harm Our Business Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including recessions, inflation, turmoil in financial markets, or other changes in economic conditions, could harm our business, results of operations, and financial conditions as a result of: ● reduced demand for our products or our customers’ products that incorporate our technology; ● increased risk of order cancellations or delays; ● increased pressure on the prices for our products or our customers’ products that incorporate our technology; ● greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; and ● risks to our liquidity, including the possibility that we might not have access to our cash when needed. We are unable to predict the timing, duration, and severity of any such adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, but the longer the duration, the greater the risks we face in operating our business. We Must Make Judgments in the Process of Preparing Our Financial Statements We prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and certain critical accounting policies that are relevant to our business. The application of these principles and policies requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. In the event that judgments and estimates we make are incorrect, we may have to change them, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. 13 Moreover, accounting standards have been subject to rapid change and evolving interpretations by accounting standards setting organizations over the past few years. The implementation of new standards requires us to interpret and apply them appropriately. If our current interpretations or applications are later found to be incorrect, our financial position and results of operations could be materially affected. If We are Unable to Maintain Effective Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting, Investors Could Lose Confidence In The Reliability of Our Financial Statements, Which Could Result In a Decline in the Price of Our Common Stock As a public company, we are required to enhance and test our financial, internal and management control systems to meet obligations imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and the audit opinion of our independent registered accounting firm as to the effectiveness of our controls is required in connection with our filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are unable to identify, implement and conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or if our independent auditors are unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may also uncover weaknesses or other issues with these controls that could also result in adverse investor reaction. Our Stock Price May Be Extremely Volatile Volatility in our stock price may negatively affect the price you may receive for your shares of common stock and increases the risk that we could be the subject of costly securities litigation. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially and could continue to fluctuate based on a variety of factors, including: ● quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; ● changes in future financial guidance that we may provide to investors and public market analysts; ● changes in our relationships with our customers; ● announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our customers or our competitors; ● changes in DSL or biometrics market growth rates as well as investor perceptions regarding the investment opportunity that companies participating in the DSL or biometrics industry afford them; ● changes in earnings estimates by public market analysts; ● key personnel losses; ● sales of our common stock; ● our stock repurchase activities; ● corporate actions we may initiate, such as spin-offs or other corporate reorganizations; and ● developments or announcements with respect to industry standards, patents or proprietary rights. In addition, the equity markets have experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many high technology companies and that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 14 BIOMETRICS & IMAGING PRODUCT LINE RISKS Our Biometrics & Imaging Product Line Faces Intense Competition The markets for our biometrics and imaging products and services are competitive and uncertain. Many of our biometric software competitors have significantly greater financial, technological, marketing and personnel resources than we do. We also face intense competition from internal development teams within potential customers. We must convince potential customers to purchase products and services from us rather than develop software or perform services internally. Furthermore, customers, who have already purchased from us, may choose to stop purchasing our software and develop their own software. In addition, announcements or introductions of new technologies or products by our competitors may adversely affect our business. Biometrics & Imaging Software Business Risks Our biometrics and imaging software business is subject to a variety of additional risks, which could materially adversely affect our revenue and operating results, including: ● market acceptance of our biometric and imaging technologies and products; ● changes in contracting practices of government or law enforcement agencies; ● the failure of the biometrics market to experience continued growth; ● delays or problems in the introduction or performance of enhancements or of future generations of our technology; ● failures or problems in our biometrics and imaging software products; ● delays in the adoption of new industry biometric standards or changes in market perception of the value of new or existing standards; ● growth of proprietary biometric systems which do not conform to industry standards; ● competitive pressures resulting in lower software product revenues; ● the availability of free open source software that competes with our software products; ● personnel changes, particularly those involving engineering, technical and sales and marketing personnel; ● costs associated with protecting our intellectual property; ● litigation by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights; ● the potential that customers could fail to make payments under their current contracts; ● new laws, changes to existing laws, or regulatory developments; and ● general economic trends and other factors. Biometrics Professional Services Business Risks Our biometrics professional services business is subject to additional risks, which could materially adversely affect our revenue and operating results, including: ● our ability to structure and price technology contracts in a manner that is consistent with our business model; ● our ability to structure ourselves to successfully bid on U.S. government contracts and meet the requirements of U.S. contracting rules and regulations; ● our ability to deliver contract milestones: i) in a timely and cost efficient manner, and ii) in a form and condition acceptable to customers; ● the risk that customers could terminate projects; ● the risk that we rely substantially on third party contractors and consultants to deliver certain contract milestones; and ● the potential that customers could fail to make payments under their contracts. 15 DSL TEST & DIAGNOSTICS PRODUCT LINE RISKS Our DSL Test and Diagnostics Business Depends Upon a Limited Number of Customers, Therefore We Derive Revenue from a Small Number of Customers There are a relatively limited number of OEM suppliers and service providers to which we can sell our DSL test and diagnostics products in a manner consistent with our business model. In 2010, we derived approximately 11% of our total revenue from JDSU, a test and diagnostics customer. No single test and diagnostics customer represented more than 10% of our total revenue in 2008 and 2009, although several customers contributed more than 5%, but less than 10% of our total revenue in those years. If we fail to maintain relationships with our current customers or fail to establish a sufficient number of new customer relationships, our business could be seriously harmed. In addition, our current and prospective customers may use their superior size and bargaining power to demand terms that are unfavorable to us. Our DSL Test and Diagnostics Business Faces Intense Competition The markets for our DSL test and diagnostics hardware and software products are competitive and uncertain. Our success as a supplier of hardware and software products for DSL test and diagnostics depends in large part on: ● the willingness and ability of OEM customers to design, build and sell automated test heads, hand-held testers, and DSLAMs that incorporate or work with our products; ● our ability to market and sell to service providers; and ● our ability to provide effective sales, marketing, and customer service to our customers. Our OEM customers, their competitors and service providers have significantly greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing and personnel resources than we do. We can give no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase products from us or that we will be able to compete effectively or that competitive pressures will not seriously harm our business. The Success of Our DSL Test and Diagnostics Business Requires Telephone Companies to Install DSL Services in Volume The success of our DSL test and diagnostics business depends upon telephone companies installing DSL services in significant volumes. Moreover, our business depends on capital equipment spending by telephone companies. If telephone companies reduce their budgets for or decide not to install or utilize equipment dedicated to DSL service or test infrastructure, our test and diagnostics business could be harmed. DSL services offered over telephone networks also compete with alternative broadband services that use other broadband network architectures, such as cable networks, fiber-to-the-home networks, and wireless networks. These alternative broadband networks may be more successful than DSL. If telephone companies cannot compete effectively with alternative broadband services our test and diagnostics business could be harmed. The Success of Our DSL Test and Diagnostics Products Depends On Our Ability to Develop Commercially Viable Products in a Timely Fashion Our success in developing and introducing, new and enhanced test and diagnostics products depends on the ability of our engineering organization to design and develop such products. Because of the complexity of our hardware and software products, it may take us a significant amount of time to develop new products. Moreover, such products must be commercially viable in terms of their features and pricing. If we cannot successfully introduce new commercially viable products on a timely basis, our DSL test and diagnostics business could be seriously harmed. 16 If Our Test and Diagnostics Hardware Products Have Quality Problems, Our Business Could Be Harmed If our test and diagnostics hardware products have actual or perceived reliability, quality, functionality or other problems, we may suffer reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, inability to recognize revenue, delays in collecting accounts receivable and higher service, support and warranty expenses or inventory write-offs, among other effects. We believe that the acceptance, volume production, timely delivery and customer satisfaction of our test and diagnostics hardware products is important to our future financial results. As a result, any inability to correct any technical, reliability, parts shortages or other difficulties or to manufacture and ship our test and diagnostics products on a timely basis meeting customer requirements could damage our relationships and reputation with current and prospective customers, which woul d harm our revenues and operating results. Any product problems that may require repair or replacement may adversely affect our customer and/or vendor relationships and have an impact on support costs, warranty reserves, or inventory reserves, among other effects. If Our Test and Diagnostics Software Products Have Other Quality Problems, Our Business Could Be Harmed If our test and diagnostics software products have actual or perceived reliability, quality, functionality or other problems, we may suffer reduced orders, inability to recognize revenue, delays in collecting accounts receivable, higher service costs, and higher support and related costs among other effects. We believe that the acceptance, timely delivery and customer satisfaction of our test and diagnostics software products is important to our future financial results. As a result, any inability to correct any technical, reliability, or other difficulties or to deliver our test and diagnostics software products on a timely basis meeting customer requirements could damage our relationships and reputation with current and prospective customers, which would harm our revenues and operating results. We are Dependent On a Single Source Contract Manufacturer for the Manufacture of Our DSL Hardware Products, the Loss of Which Would Harm Our Business We currently depend primarily on one contract manufacturer to manufacture our DSL hardware products. If this company were to terminate its arrangement with us or fail to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we would be unable to manufacture our products until replacement contract manufacturing services could be obtained. To qualify a new contract manufacturer, familiarize it with our products, quality standards and other requirements, and commence production is a costly and time-consuming process. We cannot assure you that we would be able to establish alternative manufacturing relationships on acceptable terms. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our contract manufacturer performs to our standards, our reliance on a single source limits our control over quality assurance and delivery s chedules. Defects in workmanship, inadequate yields, and manufacturing disruptions and difficulties may impair our ability to manage inventory and cause delays in shipments and cancellation of orders that may adversely affect our relationships with current and prospective customers. As a result, our test and diagnostics business could be harmed. Our Manufacturing Systems May Not Be Adequate For Our DSL Test and Diagnostics Hardware Product Offerings Our manufacturing systems have been adequate to manage current product configurations and production volumes. However, our manufacturing systems have not been tested by more complex hardware products or by production volumes higher than current levels. If our manufacturing systems are inadequate or have other problems, our test and diagnostics business could be harmed. We are Dependent on Single Source Suppliers for Components in Our DSL Hardware Products We rely on single source suppliers for components and materials used in our DSL hardware products. Our dependence on single source suppliers involves several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality, and delivery schedules. Any delays in delivery of such components or shortages of such components could cause delays in the shipment of our products, which could significantly harm our business. Because of our reliance on these vendors, we may also be subject to increases in component costs. These increases could significantly harm our business. If any one or more of our single source suppliers cease to provide us with sufficient quantities of our components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, we would have to seek alternative sources of supply. We could incur delays while we locate and engage alternative qualified suppliers and we might be unable to engage alternative suppliers on favorable terms. We could incur substantial hardware and software redesign costs if we are required to replace the components. Any such disruption or increased expenses could harm our business. 17 PATENT LICENSING PRODUCT LINE RISKS Our Ability to Obtain, Sell, License, or Enforce Patents Could be Affected by New Laws, Regulations or Rules We intend to continue to pursue the license, sale or enforcement of patents in our patent portfolio. Our patent portfolio includes approximately 185 U.S. and foreign patents as well as approximately 271 pending patent applications. We also have an active program to protect our proprietary technology through the filing of additional patents. New laws, regulations or rules implemented either by Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, foreign patent offices, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders could significantly increase our expenses related to patent prosecution or decrease revenues associated with our patents. While we are not aware that any such changes are likely to occur in the foreseeable future, we cannot assure y ou that such changes will not occur. DSL SILICON IP LICENSING PRODUCT LINE RISKS We Sold Substantially All of the Assets of Our DSL Silicon IP Licensing Product Line, And This Product Line Will No Longer Contribute Meaningful Contract Revenue In November 2009, we sold substantially all of the assets associated with our DSL and home networking licensing product line to Lantiq for $6.75 million. Lantiq is a fabless semiconductor company that was spun out of Infineon. Prior to the spinout, Infineon was our largest DSL licensing customer. The sale included: i) our DSL and home networking technology products; ii) certain patents and patent applications related to these technologies; and iii) a group of 41 engineers and the equipment used by those engineers. As a result of the sale, we will not be licensing DSL silicon IP to semiconductor customers for the foreseeable future, nor will we be deriving DSL contract revenue from either Infineon or Lantiq. In 2009 and 2008, we derived approximately 19% and 12% of our total revenue from Infineon, including contract revenue and royalties. In 2010, we derived approximately 7% of our total revenue from Lantiq for royalties only. We Continue to Receive Royalty Revenues After the Sale to Lantiq; However Future Royalty Revenue May Decline Because of Factors That Are Beyond Our Control Under the terms of our agreements with Lantiq, we continue to receive royalties for DSL chipsets Lantiq sells. We also expect to continue to derive royalties and a minimal amount of contract revenue from Ikanos as our agreement with Ikanos remains in effect after the sale to Lantiq. Future royalties we may receive from Lantiq and Ikanos are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including: ● The competitiveness of DSL chipsets offered by Lantiq and Ikanos and the willingness of their customers to purchase DSL chipsets from them; ● The promotional and marketing efforts of Lantiq and Ikanos; and ● DSL market risks in general, including: i) industry wide chipset demand; and ii) competitive pressures and cyclical demand for DSL chipsets, which may result in reduced average selling prices and channel inventory build-up. Any or all of these factors may cause our royalty revenue to decline in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 18 