Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Competition may reduce our market share and harm our results of operations and financial condition. We face substantial competition across all our businesses, including our wireless telecommunications business. We expect competition to intensify as a result of continuing consolidation of market leaders and the development of new technologies, products and services. We expect that such trends will continue to put downward pressure on the prevailing tariffs we can charge our subscribers. Prior to April 1996, we were the only wireless telecommunications service provider in Korea. Since then, several new providers have entered the market, offering wireless voice and data services that compete directly with our business. The collective market share of these other providers amounts to approximately 49.7%, in terms of numbers of wireless service subscribers, as of December 31, 2012. Since 2000, there has also been considerable consolidation in the wireless telecommunications industry, resulting in the emergence of stronger competitors, including the merger of KT Freetel Co., Ltd. (“KTF”), one of our principal wireless competitors before the merger, into KT Corporation (“KT”), Korea’s principal fixed-line operator, in June 2009 and the merger in January 2010 of LG DACOM Corporation and LG Powercomm Co., Ltd. into LG Telecom Co., Ltd. (“LG Telecom”), which subsequently changed its name to LG Uplus Corp. (“LG U+”). Such consolidation has created large, well-capitalized competitors with substantial financial, technical, marketing and other resources to respond to our business offerings. In addition, our broadband Internet access service provided through SK Broadband competes with other providers of Internet access services, including KT, LG U+ and cable companies, and our fixed-line telephone service provided through SK Broadband competes with KT, as well as providers of voice over Internet protocol (“VoIP”) services. Future business combinations and alliances in the telecommunications industry may also create significant new competitors or enhance the abilities of our current competitors to offer more competitive services and could harm our business and results of operations. Continued competition from the other wireless and fixed-line service providers has also resulted in, and may continue to result in, a substantial level of deactivations among our subscribers. Subscriber deactivations, or churn, may significantly harm our business and results of operations. In 2012, the churn rate in our wireless business ranged from 2.2% to 3.1%, with an average churn rate of 2.6%, which decreased by 0.1%p from 2011. Intensification of competition in the future may cause our churn rates to increase. The increased competition may cause us to increase our marketing expenses as a percentage of sales to attract and retain subscribers. However, on May 13, 2010, the KCC announced a guideline recommending that telecommunication service providers limit their marketing expenses to 22.0% of their annual sales, which was lowered to 20.0% of annual sales with respect to fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011. This guideline remains effective. Such marketing expenses include initial commissions, monthly commissions and retention commissions paid to our authorized dealers and subscribers, including handset subsidies, but do not include advertising expenses. While the guideline is not binding, we, as well as our competitors, nonetheless try to adhere to this guideline when feasible, which may have a material adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations. In addition, in March 2008, the KCC fully lifted its prohibition on the practice of telecommunications services providers to offer handsets at below retail prices to attract new subscribers. As a result of the Government’s decision to allow handset subsidies, we have faced increased competition from other mobile service providers and increased our marketing expenses. However, in order to comply with the KCC’s guideline on marketing expenses, we may not be able to spend sufficient funds on marketing to effectively compete with our competitors, and any material decrease in our marketing expenses may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents In 2007, the KCC introduced certain regulations to allow telecommunication service providers to bundle their services as well as allow our competitors to employ services provided by us so that they can offer similar discounted package services. Competition intensified as licensed transmission service providers were permitted to offer local, domestic long-distance and international telephone services, as well as broadband Internet access and Internet phone services, without additional business licenses. Moreover, beginning in September 2010, we are required to lease our networks to a mobile virtual network operator (“MVNO”), at such MVNO’s request, at a rate mutually agreed upon that complies with the standards set by the KCC, which remain effective. To date, ten MVNOs have commenced providing wireless telecommunications services using the networks leased from us. Furthermore, CJ HelloVision Co., Ltd. commenced providing wireless voice and data services as an MVNO using the networks leased from KT in January 2012. In addition, Korea Mobile Internet (“KMI”) and Internet Space Time Co., Ltd. (“IST”) applied in 2011 for a license to provide wireless Internet and mobile VoIP services based on WiBro technologies. While the KCC rejected KMI’s and IST’s applications in December 2011 and again in February 2013 based on their insufficient technological and financial capabilities, among other factors, they may reapply in the future. We believe the introduction of bundled services and the entrance of MVNOs or another wireless service provider into the wireless telecommunications market may further increase competition in the telecommunications sector, as well as cause downward price pressure on the fees we charge for our services, which, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Increasingly, our wireless and fixed-line voice and text message services also face competition from companies that provide voice and text message services over the fixed-line or mobile Internet, such as Skype and Kakao Talk, some without charging a fee for such services. This trend could negatively impact customer demand for our voice and text message services and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We expect competition to intensify as a result of continued consolidation of our competitors, regulatory changes and the rapid development of new technologies, products and services. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors. Inability to successfully implement or adapt our network and technology to meet the continuing technological advancements affecting the wireless industry will likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation, cash flows and business. The telecommunications industry has been characterized by continual improvement and advances in technology, and this trend is expected to continue. We and our competitors have continually implemented technology upgrades from our basic code division multiple access (“CDMA”) network to WCDMA, which is the 3G technology implemented by us, and to LTE technology, which is generally referred to as a 4G technology. Our WCDMA network currently supports more advanced HSUPA technology, as well as HSPA+ technology. We commenced commercial LTE services in July 2011 at the same time with LG U+, while KT commenced its commercial LTE services in January 2012. The more successful operation of an LTE network by a competitor, including better market acceptance of a competitor’s LTE services, could materially and adversely affect our existing wireless businesses as well as the returns on future investments we may make in our LTE network or our other businesses. In March 2005, we obtained a license from the MIC to provide WiBro services. WiBro enables us to offer high-speed and large-packet data services, including wireless broadband Internet access to portable computers and other portable devices. We commercially launched WiBro service in June 2006, initially to 24 “hot zone” areas, which are neighborhoods and districts that we have determined to be high-data traffic areas, in seven cities in Korea. By the end of 2011, we had extended WiBro service to hot zone areas in 84 cities throughout Korea. We currently use our WiBro network as a backhaul for our mobile Wi-Fi network. We cannot assure you that there will continue to be sufficient demand for our WiBro services. Our WiBro services may not be commercially successful if market conditions are unfavorable or service demand is weak. 9 Table of Contents For a more detailed description of our backbone networks, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Digital Wireless Network.” Our business could also be harmed if we fail to implement, or adapt to, future technological advancements in the telecommunications sector in a timely manner. In addition to introducing new technologies and offerings, we must phase out outdated and unprofitable technologies and services. If we are unable to do so on a cost-effective basis, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Implementation of LTE technology has required, and may continue to require, significant capital and other expenditures, which we may not recoup. We have made, and intend to continue to make, capital investments to develop and launch our LTE service. In 2012 and 2011, we spent Won 1,767.1 billion and Won 233.7 billion, respectively, in capital expenditures to build and enhance our LTE network. We plan to make further capital investments related to our LTE service in the future. Our LTE-related investment plans are subject to change, and will depend, in part, on market demand for LTE service, the competitive landscape for provision of such service and the development of competing technologies. There may not be sufficient demand for our LTE service, as a result of competition or otherwise, to permit us to recoup or profit from our LTE-related capital investments. Our growth strategy calls for significant investments in new businesses and regions, including businesses and regions in which we have limited experience. We seek growth through investments in new businesses. For example, in February 2012, we acquired a 21.05% equity stake in SK Hynix, one of the world’s largest memory-chip makers by revenue, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately Won 3.4 trillion, and became its largest shareholder. We also continue to seek other opportunities to expand our business abroad, as such opportunities present themselves. These global businesses may require further investment from us. For a more detailed description of our investments in our global business, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Global Business.” We believe that we must continue to make significant investments to build, develop and broaden our existing businesses. Entering into new businesses and regions in which we have limited experience may require us to make substantial investments, and despite such investments, we may still be unsuccessful in these efforts to expand and diversify. We might not be able to recoup or profit from our investments in new businesses and regions. For example, in November 2010, we invested approximately $60 million in LightSquared Inc. (“LightSquared”), which planned to build a wholesale wireless broadband network in the United States. However, LightSquared is currently in bankruptcy proceedings in the United States pursuant to Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In addition, when we enter into these businesses and regions with partners through joint ventures or other strategic alliances, we and those partners may have disagreements with respect to strategic directions or other aspects of business, or may otherwise be unable to coordinate or cooperate with each other, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operations in such businesses and regions. We may fail to successfully integrate our new acquisitions and joint ventures and may fail to realize the anticipated benefits. We have pursued convergence growth opportunities. For example, in 2008 and 2009, we acquired an additional equity stake in SK Broadband, Korea’s second-largest fixed-line operator, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately Won 1.45 trillion and currently hold a 50.6% equity stake in the company. In February 2010, we acquired a 49.0% equity stake in Hana SK Card Co., Ltd. (“Hana SK Card”) for the purchase price of Won 400.0 billion in order to provide cross-over services between telecommunication and finance. In September 2009, we also acquired the leased-line business and related ancillary businesses of SK Networks for Won 892.8 billion and assumed Won 611.4 billion of debt as part of the transaction. While we are hoping to benefit from a range of synergies from the acquisitions, including by offering our customers bundled fixed-line and mobile telecommunications services, we may not be able to integrate our new businesses and may fail to realize the expected benefits in the near term, or at all. 10 Table of Contents In particular, we may experience difficulties in operating SK Broadband’s fixed-line telecommunications and broadband Internet services with our existing products and services, and we may be unsuccessful in retaining SK Broadband’s existing customers. Since April 2008, customers of SK Broadband have filed lawsuits against SK Broadband in the Seoul Central District Court, alleging that SK Broadband had violated customers’ privacy, and an investigation against SK Broadband was initiated by the Seoul Central Prosecutor’s Office, the KCC and the Korea Trade Commission. In connection with its investigation, the KCC suspended SK Broadband from soliciting new subscribers for its broadband Internet services for a period of 40 days from July 1, 2008 and, in addition, imposed an administrative fine of Won 178 million. In the second half of 2011, the Seoul Central District Court rendered judgments that accepted the plaintiffs’ claims in part, ordering a payment which amounted to an aggregate of approximately Won 5.5 billion. Both SK Broadband and the plaintiffs filed appeals at the Seoul High Court, which affirmed the judgments of the Seoul District Court with respect to a few of these lawsuits. SK Broadband has filed appeals at the Supreme Court of Korea with respect to such lawsuits, while other cases remain pending at the Seoul High Court. For more information regarding these lawsuits, see “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings — SK Broadband Litigation.” In February 2012, we acquired a 21.05% equity stake in SK Hynix and became its largest shareholder. Our business and financial condition may be adversely affected if we fail to manage our investment in SK Hynix successfully. Since the memory semiconductor industry in which SK Hynix operates is subject to cyclical fluctuations, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by a downturn in the memory semiconductor industry. From time to time, the memory semiconductor industry has experienced significant and sometimes prolonged downturns, which often occur in connection with a deterioration of global economic conditions. For example, SK Hynix and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, recorded net losses of Won 332.6 billion and Won 4,744.7 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively, due to a severe downturn in the memory semiconductor industry. In addition, the memory semiconductor industry is experiencing intense competition and the average selling prices of semiconductor products have generally declined in recent years and are expected to continue to decline with time irrespective of industry-wide cyclicality and fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, technological advancements and cost reductions. For example, SK Hynix and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, recorded net losses of Won 158.8 billion and Won 56.0 billion in 2012 and 2011, respectively, primarily due to increased supply and weak demand for semiconductor products. Accordingly, SK Hynix’s operating results would be adversely affected if it fails to compete successfully or decrease manufacturing costs at an adequate level. Since our share of SK Hynix’s net losses will be reflected in our income statement as share of losses related to investments in associates, any significant loss of SK Hynix could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Due to the existing high penetration rate of wireless services in Korea, we are unlikely to maintain our subscriber growth rate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. According to data published by the KCC and the historical population data published by the Ministry of Security and Public Administration, the penetration rate for the Korean wireless telecommunications service industry as of December 31, 2012 was approximately 105.3%, which is relatively high compared to many industrialized countries. Therefore, the penetration rate for wireless telecommunications service in Korea will not grow significantly. As a result of the already high penetration rate in Korea for wireless services coupled with our leading market share, we expect our subscriber growth rate to decrease. Slowed growth in the penetration rate without a commensurate increase in revenues through the introduction of new services and increased use of our services by existing subscribers would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to acquire adequate additional spectrum or use our bandwidth efficiently to accommodate subscriber growth and subscriber usage. One of the principal limitations on a wireless network’s subscriber capacity is the amount of spectrum available for use by the system. According to the KCC’s final plan announced in February 2010, the amount of spectrum in the 800 MHz band allocated to us was reduced to 2 x 15 MHz of spectrum beginning in July 2011 from the previous 2 x 22.5 MHz. Instead, we have been allocated an additional 2 x 10 MHz of spectrum in the 2.1 GHz 11 Table of Contents band for our use until December 2016, which we have been using for our 3G services since October 2010. In August 2011, the KCC auctioned the right to use 20 MHz of bandwidth in the 1.8 GHz spectrum, 20 MHz of bandwidth in the 2.1 GHz spectrum and 10 MHz of bandwidth in the 800 MHz spectrum. We acquired the right to use the 20 MHz of bandwidth in the 1.8 GHz spectrum at a price of Won 995.0 billion. We are obligated to pay the license fee in installments during the license period of 10 years. KT acquired the right to use the 10 MHz of bandwidth in the 800 MHz spectrum for Won 261.0 billion and LG U+ acquired the right to use the 20 MHz of bandwidth in the 2.1 GHz spectrum for Won 445.5 billion. We currently use 10 MHz of bandwidth in the 800 MHz spectrum for our 2G services, 60 MHz of bandwidth in the 2.1 GHz spectrum for our 3G services and 20 MHz of bandwidth in the 800 MHz spectrum and 20 MHz of bandwidth in the 1.8 GHz spectrum for our LTE services, as well as 27 MHz of spectrum in the 2.3 GHz band for our WiBro services. The KCC announced in December 2012 that it will further auction 60 MHz of bandwidth in the 1.8 GHz spectrum, which had been used by governmental entities such as the military, and 80 MHz of bandwidth in the 2.6 GHz spectrum, which had been used for digital multimedia broadcasting services. The KCC held an informative public hearing on this proposed auction in February 2013 but has yet to announce the details of the auction. We expect the auction to take place during 2013. The growth of our wireless data businesses has been a significant factor in the increased utilization of our bandwidth, since wireless data applications are generally more bandwidth-intensive than voice services. In particular, the increasing popularity of smartphones and data intensive applications among smartphone users has recently been a major factor for the high utilization of our bandwidth. This trend has been offset in part by the implementation of new technologies, such as the CDMA 1xEV-DO upgrades to our CDMA network and the completion of our HSDPA-capable WCDMA network and LTE network, which enables more efficient usage of our bandwidth than was possible on our basic CDMA network. However, if the current trend of increased data transmission use by our subscribers continues, or the volume of the multimedia content we offer through our wireless data services substantially grows, our bandwidth capacity requirements are likely to increase. While we believe that we can address the capacity constraint issue through system upgrades and efficient allocation of bandwidth, inability to address such capacity constraints in a timely manner may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In the event we are unable to maintain sufficient bandwidth capacity, our subscribers may perceive a general slowdown of wireless services. Growth of our wireless business will depend in part upon our ability to effectively manage our bandwidth capacity and to implement efficiently and in a timely manner new bandwidth-efficient technologies if they become available. We cannot assure you that bandwidth constraints will not adversely affect the growth of our wireless business. Furthermore, we may be required to pay a substantial amount to acquire bandwidth capacity in order to meet increasing bandwidth demand, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on key researchers and engineers and senior management, and the loss of the services of any such personnel or the inability to attract and retain them may negatively affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our research and development and engineering personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified researchers and engineers. In particular, our focus on leading the market in introducing new services has meant that we must aggressively recruit engineers with expertise in cutting-edge technologies. We also depend on the services of experienced key senior management, and if we lose their services, it would be difficult to find and integrate replacement personnel in a timely manner, or at all. The loss of the services of any of our key research and development and engineering personnel or senior management without adequate replacement, or the inability to attract new qualified personnel, would have a material adverse effect on our operations. We need to observe certain financial and other covenants under the terms of our debt instruments, the failure to comply with which would put us in default under those instruments. Certain of our debt instruments contain financial and other covenants with which we are required to comply on an annual and semi-annual basis. The financial covenants with respect to SK Telecom’s debt instruments include, but are not limited to, a maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 1.20, a minimum tangible net worth of Won 1.0 trillion 12 Table of Contents and a minimum interest coverage ratio of 4.00, each as determined on a separate basis. The debt arrangements also contain negative pledge provisions limiting our ability to provide liens on our assets as well as cross-default and cross-acceleration clauses, which give related creditors the right to accelerate the amounts due under such debt if an event of default or acceleration has occurred with respect to our existing or future indebtedness, or if any material part of our indebtedness or indebtedness of our subsidiaries is capable of being declared payable before the stated maturity date. In addition, such covenants restrict our ability to raise future debt financing. If we breach our financial or other covenants, our financial condition will be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to cure such breaches or repay the relevant debt. We may have to make further financing arrangements to meet our capital expenditure requirements and debt payment obligations. As a network-based wireless telecommunications provider, we have had, and expect to continue to have, significant capital expenditure requirements as we continue to build out, maintain and upgrade our networks. We spent Won 3,394.3 billion for capital expenditures in 2012. We expect to spend less for capital expenditures in 2013 compared to 2012 for a range of projects, including investments to improve our LTE network, investments to maintain our WCDMA network-based products and services, investments in our wireless Internet-related and convergence businesses and funding for mid- to long-term research and development projects, as well as other initiatives, primarily related to the development of our new businesses such as our B2B solutions and healthcare businesses, as well as initiatives related to our ongoing businesses in the ordinary course. In particular, we continue to make significant capital investments to expand and upgrade our wireless networks in response to growing bandwidth demand by our subscribers. Bandwidth usage by our subscribers has rapidly increased in recent years primarily due to the increasing popularity of smartphones and data intensive applications among smartphone users. If heavy usage of bandwidth-intensive services grows beyond our current expectations, we may need to invest more capital than currently anticipated to expand the bandwidth capacity of our networks or our customers may have a suboptimal experience when using our services. Any of these events could adversely affect our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flow. For a more detailed discussion of our capital expenditure plans and a discussion of other factors that may affect our future capital expenditures, see “Item 5.B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately Won 1,779.6 billion in contractual payment obligations due in 2013, almost all of which involve repayment of debt obligations. See “Item 5.B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Contractual Obligations and Commitments.” We have not arranged firm financing for all of our current or future capital expenditure plans and contractual payment obligations. We have, in the past, obtained funds for our proposed capital expenditure and payment obligations from various sources, including our cash flow from operations as well as from financings, primarily debt and equity financings. Any material adverse change in our operational or financial condition could impact our ability to fund our capital expenditure plans and contractual payment obligations. Still volatile financial market conditions may also curtail our ability to obtain adequate funding. Inability to fund such capital expenditure requirements may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. In addition, although we currently anticipate that the capital expenditure levels estimated by us will be adequate to meet our business needs, such estimates may need to be adjusted based on developments in technology and markets. In the event we are unable to meet any such increased expenditure requirements or to obtain adequate financing for such requirements, on terms acceptable to us, or at all, this may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Termination or impairment of our relationship with a small number of key suppliers for network equipment and for leased lines could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We purchase wireless network equipment from a small number of suppliers. To date, we have purchased substantially all of the equipment for our CDMA network from Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (“Samsung Electronics”) and substantially all of the equipment for our WCDMA network, including the software and firmware used to upgrade our WCDMA network, from Samsung Electronics and Ericsson-LG Co., Ltd. (formerly known as 13 Table of Contents LG-Ericsson Co., Ltd.) (“Ericsson-LG”). In addition, to date, we have purchased substantially all of the equipment for our WiBro network from Samsung Electronics. To date, we have purchased substantially all of the equipment for our LTE network from Samsung Electronics, Ericsson-LG and Nokia Siemens Networks B.V. We believe Samsung Electronics currently manufactures approximately half of the wireless handsets sold to our subscribers. Although other manufacturers sell the equipment we require, sourcing such equipment from other manufacturers could result in unanticipated costs in the maintenance and enhancement of our wireless networks. Inability to obtain the equipment needed for our networks in a timely manner may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to obtain the necessary equipment from one or more of our suppliers. Any discontinuation or interruption in the availability of equipment from our suppliers for any reason could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Inability to lease adequate lines at commercially reasonable rates may impact the quality of the services we offer and may also damage our reputation and our business. Our business relies on technology developed by us as well as technologies provided by third parties, and our business will suffer if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, obtain new licensing agreements or renew existing licensing agreements with third parties. We own numerous patents and trademarks worldwide, and have applications for patents pending in many countries, including Korea, Japan, China and the United States, and in Europe. We also license a number of patented processes and trademarks under cross-licensing, technical assistance and other agreements. In addition to active internal and external research and development efforts, our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our services. We may be required to defend against charges of infringement of patent or other proprietary rights of third parties. Although we have not experienced any significant patent or other intellectual property disputes, we cannot be certain that any significant patent or other intellectual property disputes will not occur in the future. Defending our patent and other proprietary rights could require us to incur substantial expense and to divert significant resources of our technical and management personnel, and could result in our loss of rights to employ certain technologies to provide services. If we are unable to renew our technology licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, we may lose the legal protection to use certain of the technologies we employ to provide services and be prohibited from using those technologies which may prevent us from providing our services. In addition, we could be at a disadvantage if our competitors obtain licenses for protected technologies on more favorable terms than we do. We also cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain additional licenses for new or existing technologies on acceptable terms or at all. Malicious and abusive Internet practices could impair our services. Our wireless and fixed-line subscribers increasingly utilize our network to access the Internet and, as a consequence, we or they may become victim to common malicious and abusive Internet activities, such as unsolicited mass advertising (i.e., “spam”), hacking of personal information and dissemination of viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software. These activities could have adverse consequences on our network and our customers, including degradation of service, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to our or our customers’ equipment and data. Significant incidents could lead to customer dissatisfaction and, ultimately, loss of customers or revenue, in addition to increased costs to us to service our customers and protect our network. For example, in July 2011, there was a leak of personal information of subscribers of the NATE and Cyworld websites operated by SK Communications Co., Ltd. (“SK Communications”), our consolidated subsidiary. As of December 31, 2012, twenty lawsuits were filed against SK Communications, alleging that the leak was caused by its poor management of subscribers’ personal information and seeking damages of approximately Won 5.5 billion in aggregate. With respect to a few of the lawsuits, the relevant district courts have rendered judgments for the relevant plaintiffs’ claims in part and SK Communications has appealed such judgments to the applicable high courts, where the cases are currently pending. Other cases remain pending at various district courts in Korea. Any significant loss of our subscribers or revenue due to incidents of malicious and abusive Internet practices or significant increase in costs of serving those subscribers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Labor disputes may disrupt our operations. Although we have not experienced any significant labor disputes, there can be no assurance that we will not experience labor disputes in the future, including protests and strikes, which could disrupt our business operations and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Every two years, the union and management negotiate and enter into a new collective bargaining agreement that has a two-year duration, which is focused on employee benefits and welfare. Employee wages are separately negotiated on an annual basis. Although we consider our relations with our employees to be good, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such a working relationship with our employees and will not experience labor disputes resulting from disagreements with the labor union in the future. Our businesses are subject to extensive Government regulation and any change in Government policy relating to the telecommunications industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Most of our businesses are subject to extensive governmental supervision and regulation. Under the previous Government, the KCC periodically reviewed the tariffs charged by wireless operators and, from time to time, suggested tariff reductions. Although these suggestions were not binding, we implemented some tariff reductions in response to the KCC’s recommendations. After discussions with the KCC, in November 2009, we adopted various tariff reduction measures, including a reduction of the initial subscription fee by 27.0% and an increase in discounts for long-term subscribers. In March 2010, we also began to charge voice calls on a per-second basis, which has the effect of reducing the usage charges compared with the previous system of charging per ten seconds. After discussions with the KCC, in June 2011, we announced further tariff reduction measures, including a reduction of the monthly fee by Won 1,000 for every subscriber, an exemption of usage charges for short text message service (“SMS”) up to 50 messages per month and the introduction of customized fixed-rate plans for smartphone users, which were implemented in the second half of 2011. The MSIP, which has taken over the KCC’s tariff regulation function as of March 23, 2013, may also suggest tariff reductions and any further tariff reductions we make in response to such suggestion may adversely affect our results of operations. The Government also plays an active role in the selection of technology to be used by telecommunications operators in Korea. For example, the MIC adopted the WCDMA and CDMA2000 technologies as the only standards available in Korea for implementing 3G services. The MSIP may impose similar restrictions on the choice of technology used in future telecommunications services, and it is possible that technologies promoted by the Government in the future may not provide the best commercial returns for us. Furthermore, the Government sets the policies regarding the use of frequencies and allocates the spectrum of frequencies used for wireless telecommunications. In February 2010, the KCC announced its final plan to reallocate the spectrum of frequencies among us, KT and LG U+. In addition, in August 2011 the KCC auctioned the right to use 20 MHz of bandwidth in the 1.8 GHz spectrum, 20 MHz of bandwidth in the 2.1 GHz spectrum and 10 MHz of bandwidth in the 800 MHz spectrum. In the auction, we acquired the right to use the 20 MHz of bandwidth in the 1.8 GHz spectrum at a price of Won 995.0 billion, KT acquired the right to use the 10 MHz of bandwidth in the 800 MHz spectrum for Won 261.0 billion and LG U+ acquired the right to use the 20 MHz of bandwidth in the 2.1 GHz spectrum for Won 445.5 billion. The KCC announced in December 2012 that it will further auction 60 MHz of bandwidth in the 1.8 GHz spectrum, which had been used by governmental entities such as the military, and 80 MHz of bandwidth in the 2.6 GHz spectrum, which had been used for digital multimedia broadcasting services. The KCC held an informative public hearing on this proposed auction in February 2013 but has yet to announce the details of the auction. We expect the auction to take place during 2013. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Law and Regulation — Competition Regulation.” While we do not believe the reallocation of spectrum will materially impact our ability to maintain sufficient bandwidth capacity, the reallocation and new allocation of the spectrum to our existing or new competitors could increase competition among wireless service providers, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Pursuant to recent amendments to the Telecommunications Business Act, which became effective as of September 23, 2010, certain mobile network operators designated by the KCC, which currently include only us, are required to lease their networks or allow use of their networks (collectively, “wholesale lease”) to other network 15 Table of Contents service providers, such as an MVNO, that have requested such wholesale lease in order to provide their own services using the leased networks. To date, ten MVNOs have commenced providing wireless telecommunications services using the networks leased from us. We believe that leasing a portion of our bandwidth capacity to an MVNO would impair our ability to use our bandwidth in ways that would generate maximum revenues and would strengthen our MVNO competitors by granting them access and lowering their costs to enter into our markets. Accordingly, our profitability may be adversely affected. Our wireless telecommunications services depend, in part, on our interconnection arrangements with domestic and international fixed-line and other wireless networks. Our interconnection arrangements, including the interconnection rates we pay and interconnection rates we charge, affect our revenues and operating results. The MSIP determines the basic framework for interconnection arrangements, including policies relating to interconnection rates in Korea. The KCC, which determined such basic framework under the previous Government, changed the basic framework for interconnection arrangements several times. We cannot assure you that we will not be adversely affected by the MSIP’s interconnection policies and future changes to such policies. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Interconnection — Domestic Calls.” In January 2003, the MIC announced its plan to implement number portability with respect to wireless telecommunications service in Korea. The number portability system allows wireless subscribers to switch wireless service operators while retaining the same mobile phone number. In addition, the MIC has also required all new subscribers to be given numbers with the “010” prefix starting January 2004, and it has been gradually retracting the mobile service identification numbers which had been unique to each wireless telecommunications service provider, including “011” for our cellular services. The KCC pursued the integration process and planned to complete the process by around 2018, when all mobile telephone numbers would have the prefix identification number “010.” We expect the MSIP to continue to pursue the integration process on a similar timetable. Historically, “011” has had high brand recognition in Korea as the prefix for premium wireless telecommunications service. The Government’s adoption of the number portability system and the consolidation of the prefix numbers have resulted in and may continue to result in weakened customer loyalty, increased competition among wireless service providers and higher costs of marketing, increased subscriber deactivations and increased churn rate, all of which had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Subscribers — Number Portability.” In addition, the MSIP may revoke our licenses or suspend any of our businesses if we fail to comply with its rules, regulations and corrective orders, including the rules restricting beneficial ownership and control or any violation of the conditions of our licenses. Alternatively, in lieu of suspension of our business, the MSIP may levy a monetary penalty of up to 3.0% of the average of our annual revenue for the preceding three fiscal years. The KCC had the same authority in the previous Government and exercised such authority to suspend our business and impose fines on us. For example, in December 2012, the KCC imposed a suspension on each of us, KT and LG U+ from acquiring new subscribers during the first quarter of 2013, each for a period of more than 20 days, and imposed fines pursuant to its determination that we, KT and LG U+ discriminatorily provided handset subsidies to new subscribers. In March 2013, the KCC imposed additional fines on each of us, KT and LG U+ for the same reason after further investigations. The revocation of our cellular licenses, suspension of our business or imposition of monetary penalties by the MSIP could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe we are currently in compliance with the material terms of all our cellular licenses, including our WCDMA, LTE and WiBro licenses. President Park Geun-hye, who took office on February 25, 2013 as the 18th President of Korea, announced that the new Government will work toward reducing telecommunications service charges and promoting transparency in the decision making of telecommunications service providers. Accordingly, the new Government has set detailed policy objectives to (1) gradually reduce and abolish initial subscription fees by 2015, (2) expand MVNO and mobile VoIP (“m-VoIP”) service, (3) intensify regulations on handset subsidies and (4) construct a data-based tariff system. If the new Government goes forward with its new telecommunications policy, it will increase competition among wireless service providers and our business and our profitability may be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to additional regulations as a result of our dominant market position in the wireless telecommunications sector, which could harm our ability to compete effectively. The Government endeavors to promote competition in the Korean telecommunications markets through measures designed to prevent a dominant service provider from exercising its market power and deterring the emergence and development of viable competitors. We were designated by the KCC as the “market dominant service provider” in respect of our wireless telecommunications business. We do not expect the MSIP to lift such designation for the time being. As such, we are subject to additional regulations to which certain of our competitors are not subject. For example, under current Government regulations, we must obtain prior approval from the MSIP to raise our existing rates or introduce new rates. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Law and Regulation — Competition Regulation — Rate Regulation.” The MSIP could also require us to charge higher usage rates than our competitors for future services or to take certain actions earlier than our competitors, as when the KCC required us to introduce number portability earlier than our competitors, KT and LG U+. We also qualify as a “market-dominating business entity” under the Fair Trade Act, which subjects us to additional regulations. For instance, during our acquisition of Shinsegi Telecom, Inc. (“Shinsegi”), which closed in 2002, the Fair Trade Commission of Korea (the “FTC”) approved the acquisition on the condition that, among other things, our and Shinsegi’s combined market share in the wireless telecommunications market, based on numbers of subscribers, be less than 50.0% as of June 30, 2001. In order to satisfy this condition, we reduced the level of our subscriber activations and adopted more stringent involuntary subscriber deactivation policies beginning in 2000 and ceased accepting new subscribers from April 1, 2001 through June 30, 2001. While we are no longer subject to any market share limitations, the Government may impose restrictions on our market share in the future. If we become subject to market share limitations, our ability to compete effectively will be impeded. The additional regulation to which we are subject has affected our competitiveness in the past and may materially hurt our profitability and impede our ability to compete effectively against our competitors in the future. Concerns that radio frequency emissions may be linked to various health concerns could adversely affect our business and we could be subject to litigation relating to these health concerns. In the past, allegations that serious health risks may result from the use of wireless telecommunications devices or other transmission equipment have adversely affected share prices of some wireless telecommunications companies in the United States. In May 2011, the International Agency for Research on Cancer (the “IARC”), a part of the World Health Organization, announced that it has classified radiofrequency electromagnetic fields associated with wireless phone use as possibly carcinogenic to humans, based on an increased risk for glioma, a malignant type of brain cancer. The IARC conducts research on the causes of human cancer and the mechanisms of carcinogenesis and aims to develop scientific strategies for cancer control. We cannot assure you that these health concerns will not adversely affect our business. Several class action and personal injury lawsuits have been filed in the United States against several wireless phone manufacturers and carriers, asserting product liability, breach of warranty and other claims relating to radio transmissions to and from wireless phones. Certain of these lawsuits have been dismissed. We could be subject to liability or incur significant costs defending lawsuits brought by our subscribers or other parties who claim to have been harmed by or as a result of our services. In addition, the actual or perceived risk of wireless telecommunications devices could have an adverse effect on our business by reducing the number of our subscribers or the usage per subscriber. Our ability to deliver services may be disrupted due to a systems failure, shutdown in our networks or natural disasters. Our services are currently carried through our wireless and fixed-line networks, which could be vulnerable to damage or interruptions in operations due to fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunication failures, network software flaws, unauthorized access, computer viruses and similar events. The occurrence of any of these events could impact our ability to deliver services and have a negative effect on our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents A global or Korean economic downturn may have a material adverse impact on our business and the ability to meet our funding needs, and could cause the market value of our common shares and American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) to decline. In recent years, difficulties affecting the global financial sectors, adverse conditions and volatility in the worldwide credit and financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the global economy have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected the global and Korean economies. The legislators and financial regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions, including Korea, have implemented a number of policy measures designed to add stability to financial markets. The overall impact of these legislative and regulatory efforts on the global financial markets continues to be uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilizing effects. While the rate of deterioration of the global economy has slowed since the second half of 2009, with some signs of stabilization and improvement, the overall prospects for the Korean and global economy in 2013 and beyond remain uncertain. For example, commencing in the second half of 2011, the global financial markets have experienced significant volatility as a result of, among other things, the downgrading by Standard & Poor’s Rating Services of the long-term sovereign credit rating of the United States to “AA+” from “AAA” in August 2011 and the financial difficulties affecting many other governments worldwide, in particular in Greece, Cyprus, Spain, Italy and other countries in Europe. In addition, measures adopted by the international community to sanction Iran for its nuclear weapons program, as well as political instability in various countries in the Middle East and Northern Africa, including in Egypt, Tunisia, Libya, Syria and Yemen, have resulted in volatility and uncertainty in the global energy markets. These or other developments could potentially trigger another financial and economic crisis. We are exposed to risks related to changes in the global and Korean economic environments, changes in interest rates and instability in the global financial markets. Adverse global and Korean economic conditions may lead to overall decline and volatility in securities prices of Korean companies, including ours, which may result in trading and valuation losses on our trading and investment securities portfolio. Increases in credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit resulting from heightened concerns about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers, which may negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations. Major market disruptions and adverse changes in economic conditions and regulatory climate may further impair our ability to meet our desired funding needs. We cannot predict future changes in economic conditions. Adverse developments in the global or Korean economies or financial markets may have a material adverse effect on our business and the ability to meet our funding needs, as well as negatively affect the market value of our common shares and ADSs. Depreciation of the value of the Won against the Dollar and other major foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the market value of our common shares and ADSs. Substantially all of our revenues are denominated in Won. Depreciation of the Won may materially affect our results of operations because, among other things, it causes: • an increase in the amount of Won required by us to make interest and principal payments on our foreign currency-denominated debt; and • an increase, in Won terms, of the costs of equipment that we purchase from overseas sources which we pay for in Dollars or other foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the Dollar will affect the Dollar equivalent of the Won price of the our common shares on the KRX KOSPI Market of the Korea Exchange (the “KRX KOSPI Market”). These fluctuations also will affect: • the amounts a registered holder or beneficial owner of ADSs will receive from the American Depositary Receipt (“ADR”) depositary in respect of dividends, which will be paid in Won to the ADR depositary and converted by the ADR depositary into Dollars; • the Dollar value of the proceeds that a holder will receive upon sale in Korea of our common shares; and • the secondary market price of our ADSs. For historical exchange rate information, see “Item 3.A. Selected Financial Data — Exchange Rates.” 18 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Korea Unfavorable financial and economic developments in Korea may have an adverse effect on us. We are incorporated in Korea, and a significant portion of our operations is based in Korea. As a result, we are subject to political, economic, legal and regulatory risks specific to Korea. The economic indicators in Korea in recent years have shown mixed signs of growth and uncertainty, and future growth of the economy is subject to many factors beyond our control. In recent years, adverse conditions and volatility in the worldwide financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the U.S. and global economy have contributed to the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the Korean economy. From the second half of 2008 to the first half of 2010, the value of the Won relative to major foreign currencies in general and the U.S. dollar in particular fluctuated widely. While the value of the Won generally stabilized starting in the second half of 2010, there have been signs of relative increase in the volatility of exchange rates starting in the fourth quarter of 2012. Given the lingering uncertainty in the global economic environment, there is no guarantee that exchange rates will not once again fluctuate in the future at such levels as we experienced in the second half of 2008 through the first half of 2010. See “Item 3.A. Selected Financial Data — Exchange Rates.” A depreciation of the Won increases the cost of imported goods and services and the Won revenue needed by Korean companies to service foreign currency denominated debt. An appreciation of the Won, on the other hand, causes export products of Korean companies to be less competitive by raising their prices in terms of the relevant foreign currency and reduces the Won value of such export sales. Furthermore, as a result of adverse global and Korean economic conditions, there has been an overall decline and continuing volatility in the stock prices of Korean companies. The Korea Composite Stock Price Index (“KOSPI”) declined from 1,897.1 on December 31, 2007 to 938.8 on October 24, 2008. While the KOSPI has recovered since 2008, closing at 1,944.56 on April 26, 2013, there is no guarantee that the stock prices of Korean companies will not decline again in the future. Future declines in the KOSPI and large amounts of sales of Korean securities by foreign investors and subsequent repatriation of the proceeds of such sales may continue to adversely affect the value of the Won, the foreign currency reserves held by financial institutions in Korea and the ability of Korean companies to raise capital. Any future deterioration of the Korean or global economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Developments that could have an adverse impact on Korea’s economy in the future include: • difficulties in the financial sectors in Europe and elsewhere and increased sovereign default risks in selected countries and the resulting adverse effects on the global financial markets; • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including oil prices), exchange rates (including fluctuation of the U.S. dollar, the euro or the Japanese yen exchange rates or revaluation of the Chinese renminbi), interest rates, inflation rates or stock markets; • continuing adverse conditions in the economies of countries and regions that are important export markets for Korea, such as the United States, Europe, Japan and China, or in emerging market economies in Asia or elsewhere; • further decreases in the market prices of Korean real estate; • increasing delinquencies and credit defaults by retail and small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers; • declines in consumer confidence and a slowdown in consumer spending; • difficulties in the financial sector in Korea, including the savings bank sector; • the continued emergence of the Chinese economy, to the extent its benefits (such as increased exports to China) are outweighed by its costs (such as competition in export markets or for foreign investment and the relocation of the manufacturing base from Korea to China); • social and labor unrest; 19 Table of Contents • a decrease in tax revenues and a substantial increase in the Government’s expenditures for fiscal stimulus measures, unemployment compensation and other economic and social programs that, together, would lead to an increased Government budget deficit; • financial problems or lack of progress in the restructuring of Korean conglomerates, other large troubled companies, their suppliers or the financial sector; • loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues concerning certain Korean conglomerates; • increases in social expenditures to support an aging population in Korea or decreases in economic productivity due to the declining population size in Korea; • the economic impact of any pending or future free trade agreements; • geo-political uncertainty and risk of further attacks by terrorist groups around the world; • natural disasters that have a significant adverse economic or other impact on Korea or its major trading partners; • the occurrence of severe health epidemics in Korea and other parts of the world; • deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including deterioration resulting from territorial or trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy; • political uncertainty or increasing strife among or within political parties in Korea; • hostilities or political or social tensions involving oil producing countries in the Middle East and North Africa and any material disruption in the global supply of oil or increase in the price of oil; • an increase in the level of tensions or an outbreak of hostilities between North Korea and Korea or the United States; and • changes in financial regulations in Korea. Escalations in tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and the market value of our common shares and ADSs. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase abruptly as a result of future events. In particular, since the death of Kim Jong-il in December 2011, there has been increased uncertainty with respect to the future of North Korea’s political leadership and concern regarding its implications for political and economic stability in the region. Although Kim Jong-il’s third son, Kim Jong-eun, has assumed power as his father’s designated successor, the long-term outcome of such leadership transition remains uncertain. In addition, there have been heightened security concerns in recent years stemming from North Korea’s nuclear weapon and long-range missile programs as well as its hostile military and other actions against Korea. Some of the significant incidents in recent years include the following: • In early April 2013, North Korea blocked access to the inter-Korean industrial complex in its border city of Gaeseong to South Koreans, while the U.S. deployed nuclear-capable stealth bombers and destroyers to Korean air and sea space. • In late March 2013, North Korea stated that it had entered “a state of war” with Korea, declaring the 1953 armistice invalid, and put its artillery at the highest level of combat readiness to protest the Korea-United States allies’ military drills and additional sanctions imposed on North Korea for its missile and nuclear tests. • North Korea renounced its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in January 2003 and conducted three rounds of nuclear tests between October 2006 to February 2013, which increased tensions in the region and elicited strong objections worldwide. In response, the United Nations Security Council unanimously passed resolutions that condemned North Korea for the nuclear tests and expanded sanctions against North Korea, most recently in March 2013. 20 Table of Contents • In December 2012, North Korea launched a satellite into orbit using a long-range rocket, despite concerns in the international community that such a launch would be in violation of the agreement with the United States as well as United Nations Security Council resolutions that prohibit North Korea from conducting launches that use ballistic missile technology. • In March 2010, a Korean naval vessel was destroyed by an underwater explosion, killing many of the crewmen on board. The Government formally accused North Korea of causing the sinking, while North Korea denied responsibility. Moreover, in November 2010, North Korea fired more than one hundred artillery shells that hit Korea’s Yeonpyeong Island near the Northern Limit Line, which acts as the de facto maritime boundary between Korea and North Korea on the west coast of the Korean peninsula, causing casualties and significant property damage. The Government condemned North Korea for the attack and vowed stern retaliation should there be further provocation. North Korea’s economy also faces severe challenges. For example, in November 2009, the North Korean government redenominated its currency at a ratio of 100 to 1 as part of a currency reform undertaken in an attempt to control inflation and reduce income gaps. In tandem with the currency redenomination, the North Korean government banned the use or possession of foreign currency by its residents and closed down privately run markets, which led to severe inflation and food shortages. Such developments may further aggravate social and political tensions within North Korea. There can be no assurance that the level of tension on the Korean peninsula will not escalate in the future. Any further increase in tensions, which may occur, for example, if North Korea experiences a leadership crisis, high-level contacts between Korea and North Korea break down or military hostilities occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and the market value of our common shares and ADSs. Korea’s legislation allowing class action suits related to securities transactions may expose us to additional litigation risk. The Securities-related Class Action Act of Korea enacted in January 2004 allows class action suits to be brought by shareholders of companies (including us) listed on the KRX KOSPI Market for losses incurred in connection with purchases and sales of securities and other securities transactions arising from (1) false or inaccurate statements provided in the registration statements, prospectuses, business reports, audit reports, semi-annual or quarterly reports and material fact reports and omission of material information in such documents, (2) insider trading, (3) market manipulation and (4) unfair trading. This law permits 50 or more shareholders who collectively hold 0.01% of the shares of a company to bring a class action suit against, among others, the issuer and its directors and officers. Because of the relatively recent enactment of the act, there is not enough judicial precedent to predict how the courts will apply the law. Litigation can be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, and can divert management time and attention from the operation of a business. We are not aware of any basis upon which such suit may be brought against us, nor are any such suits pending or threatened. Any such litigation brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Securities If SK Holdings causes us to breach the foreign ownership limitations on our common shares, we may experience a change of control. The Telecommunications Business Act currently sets a 49.0% limit on the aggregate foreign ownership of our issued shares. Under the Telecommunications Business Act, as amended, a Korean entity, such as SK Holdings Co., Ltd. (“SK Holdings”), is deemed to be a foreign entity if its largest shareholder (determined by aggregating the shareholdings of such shareholder and its related parties) is a foreigner and such shareholder (together with the shareholdings of its related parties) holds 15.0% or more of the issued voting stock of the Korean entity. As of December 31, 2012, SK Holdings owned 20,363,452 shares of our common stock, or approximately 25.22%, of our issued shares. If SK Holdings were considered to be a foreign shareholder, then its shareholding in us would be included in the calculation of our aggregate foreign shareholding and our aggregate foreign shareholding (based on our foreign ownership level as of December 31, 2012, which we believe was 44.14%) would exceed the 49.0% 21 Table of Contents ceiling on foreign shareholding. As of December 31, 2012, a foreign investment fund and its related parties collectively held a 3.1% stake in SK Holdings. We could breach the foreign ownership limitations if the number of common shares or ADSs owned by other foreign persons significantly increases. If our aggregate foreign shareholding limit is exceeded, the MSIP may issue a corrective order to us, the breaching shareholder (including SK Holdings if the breach is caused by an increase in foreign ownership of SK Holdings) and the foreign investment fund and its related parties who own in the aggregate 15.0% or more of SK Holdings. Furthermore, if SK Holdings is considered a foreign shareholder, it may not exercise its voting rights with respect to the shares held in excess of the 49.0% ceiling, which may result in a change in control of us. In addition, the MSIP may refuse to grant us licenses or permits necessary for entering into new telecommunications businesses until our aggregate foreign shareholding is reduced to below 49.0%. For a description of further actions that the MSIP could take, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Law and Regulation — Foreign Ownership and Investment Restrictions and Requirements.” If our convertible notes are converted by foreign holders and such conversion causes a violation of the foreign ownership restrictions of the Telecommunications Business Act, or in certain other circumstances, we may sell our common shares in order to settle the converting holders’ conversion rights in cash in lieu of delivering common shares or ADSs to them, and these sales might adversely affect the market value of our common shares or ADSs. In April 2009, we sold US$332.5 million in 1.75% convertible notes due 2014, all of which currently remain outstanding. As of March 31, 2013, these convertible notes were convertible by the holders into our common shares at the rate of Won 190,006 per share. These notes are held principally by foreign holders. If (1) the exercise by the holder of the conversion right would be prohibited by Korean law or we reasonably conclude that the delivery of common shares or ADSs upon conversion of these notes would result in a violation of applicable Korean law or (2) we do not have a sufficient number of our common shares to satisfy the conversion right, then we will pay a converting holder a cash settlement payment. In such situations, we may sell such number of treasury shares held in trust for us that corresponds to the number of our common shares that would have been deliverable in the absence of the 49.0% foreign shareholding restrictions imposed by the Telecommunications Business Act or other legal restrictions. The number of shares sold in these circumstances might be substantial. We cannot assure you that such sales would not adversely affect the market value of our common shares or ADSs. Sales of our shares by SK Holdings and/or other large shareholders may adversely affect the market value of our common shares and ADSs. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market value of our common shares or ADSs or our ability to raise capital through an offering of our common shares. As of December 31, 2012, SK Holdings owned 25.22% of our total issued common shares and has not agreed to any restrictions on its ability to dispose of our shares. See “Item 7.A. Major Shareholders.” We can make no prediction as to the timing or amount of any sales of our common shares. We cannot assure you that future sales of our common shares, or the availability of our common shares for future sale, will not adversely affect the prevailing market value of our common shares or ADSs from time to time. If an investor surrenders his or her ADSs to withdraw the underlying shares, he or she may not be allowed to deposit the shares again to obtain ADSs. Under the deposit agreement, holders of our common shares may deposit those shares with the ADR depositary’s custodian in Korea and obtain ADSs, and holders of ADSs may surrender ADSs to the ADR depositary and receive our common shares. However, under the terms of the deposit agreement, as amended, the depositary bank is required to obtain our prior consent to any such deposit if, after giving effect to such deposit, the total number of our common shares represented by ADSs, which was 15,990,995 shares as of March 31, 2013, exceeds a specified maximum, subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. In addition, the depositary bank or the custodian may not accept deposits of our common shares for issuance of ADSs under certain circumstances, including (1) if it has been determined by us that we should block the deposit to prevent a violation of applicable Korean laws and regulations or our articles of incorporation or (2) if a person intending to make a deposit has been 22 Table of Contents identified as a holder of at least 3.0% of our common shares. See “Item 10.B. Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation — Description of American Depositary Shares.” It is possible that we may not give the consent. Consequently, an investor who has surrendered his or her ADSs and withdrawn the underlying shares may not be allowed to deposit the shares again to obtain ADSs. An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional new shares and may suffer dilution of his or her equity interest in us. The Korean Commercial Code and our articles of incorporation require us, with some exceptions, to offer shareholders the right to subscribe for new shares in proportion to their existing ownership percentage whenever new shares are issued. If we offer a right to subscribe for additional new common shares or any other rights of similar nature, the ADR depositary, after consultation with us, may make the rights available to an ADS holder or use reasonable efforts to dispose of the rights on behalf of the ADS holder and make the net proceeds available to the ADS holder. The ADR depositary, however, is not required to make available to an ADS holder any rights to purchase any additional shares unless it deems that doing so is lawful and feasible and: • a registration statement filed by us under the Securities Act is in effect with respect to those shares; or • the offering and sale of those shares is exempt from, or is not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file any registration statement with respect to any ADSs. If a registration statement is required for an ADS holder to exercise preemptive rights but is not filed by us, the ADS holder will not be able to exercise his or her preemptive rights for additional shares. As a result, ADS holders may suffer dilution of their equity interest in us. Short selling of our ADSs by purchasers of securities convertible or exchangeable into our ADSs could materially adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. SK Holdings, through one or more special purpose vehicles, has engaged and may in the future engage in monetization transactions relating to its ownership interest in us. These transactions have included and may include offerings of securities that are convertible or exchangeable into our ADSs. Many investors in convertible or exchangeable securities seek to hedge their exposure in the underlying equity securities at the time of acquisition of the convertible or exchangeable securities, often through short selling of the underlying equity securities or similar transactions. Since a monetization transaction could involve debt securities linked to a significant number of our ADSs, we expect that a sufficient quantity of ADSs may not be immediately available for borrowing in the market to facilitate settlement of the likely volume of short selling activity that would accompany the commencement of a monetization transaction. This short selling and similar hedging activity could place significant downward pressure on the market price of our ADSs, thereby having a material adverse effect on the market value of ADSs owned by you. A holder of our ADSs may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against us. We are a corporation with limited liability organized under the laws of Korea. Substantially all of our directors and officers and other persons named in this document reside in Korea, and all or a significant portion of the assets of our directors and officers and other persons named in this document and substantially all of our assets are located in Korea. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of our ADSs to effect service of process within the United States, or to enforce against us any judgments obtained from the United States courts based on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Korea, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the United States federal securities laws. We are generally subject to Korean corporate governance and disclosure standards, which may differ from those in other countries. Companies in Korea, including us, are subject to corporate governance standards applicable to Korean public companies, which may differ in some respects from standards applicable in other countries, including the United 23 Table of Contents States. As a reporting company registered with the SEC and listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”), we are, and in the future will be, subject to certain corporate governance standards as mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). However, foreign private issuers, including us, are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or under the rules of the NYSE. There may also be less publicly available information about Korean companies, such as us, than is regularly made available by public or non-public companies in other countries. Such differences in corporate governance standards and less public information available could result in corporate governance practices or disclosures that are perceived as less than satisfactory by investors in certain countries. There are special risks involved with investing in securities of Korean companies, including the possibility of restrictions being imposed by the Government in emergency circumstances. As we are a Korean company and operate in a business and cultural environment that is different from that of other countries, there are risks associated with investing in our securities that are not typical for investments in securities of companies in other jurisdictions. Under the Korean Foreign Exchange Transactions Law, if the Government deems that certain emergency circumstances, including sudden fluctuations in interest rates or exchange rates, extreme difficulty in stabilizing the balance of payments or substantial disturbance in the Korean financial and capital markets, are likely to occur, it may impose any necessary restriction such as requiring Korean or foreign investors to obtain prior approval from the Minister of Strategy and Finance for the acquisition of Korean securities or for the repatriation of interest, dividends or sales proceeds arising from Korean securities or from disposition of such securities or other transactions involving foreign exchange. 