Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely suffer. Our growth is dependent on strengthening our existing stores and brand strategy development. Our ability to grow our existing business depends in part on our ability to appropriately identify, develop and effectively execute strategies and initiatives related to strengthening our stores’ operations and increasing brand acceptance. Our growth over the next several years depends on our ability to successfully and effectively manage our existing business by continuing to revitalize our mall and outlet stores, increase acceptance of our brand and open new stores on a limited basis as opportunities arise. Our ability to grow our business will be limited, however, if we are unable to improve the sales performance and productivity of our existing stores. Failure to effectively identify, develop and execute strategies and initiatives may lead to increased operating costs without offsetting benefits and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During 2006, we reengineered our mall stores with a goal of transitioning our customer base toward a more fashion-focused and less price-sensitive customer. In addition, we introduced the new Wilsons Leather logo and brand mission to better promote the uniqueness of our merchandise. Based on our experience over the 2006 holiday selling season, we believe that it will take longer for our new product mix and merchandise strategy to reach our new target customer than we expected and it is possible that the new strategy may not be successful at all. If we are not able to attract customers through our new strategy and increase acceptance of the Wilsons Leather brand, our comparable store sales, operating margins and cash flow will be adversely affected, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our comparable store sales declined during four of the past five years. Our comparable store sales decreased by 17.2% in 2006, including a 21.6% decrease in the fourth quarter. In 2005, our comparable store sales decreased by 2.9%, with a 10.0% decrease in the fourth quarter. Comparable store sales declined 6.8% and 7.0% in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Comparable store sales for 2004 increased nominally by 0.6%. Our comparable store sales are affected by a variety of factors, including: • general economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; • consumer shopping preferences; • transition of our target customer base; • acceptance of the Wilsons Leather brand; • actions by competitors or mall anchor tenants; • weather conditions; • fashion trends; • changes in our merchandise mix; • the timing of new store openings and the relative proportion of new stores to mature stores; • maintaining appropriate inventory levels; • calendar shifts of seasonal periods; and • timing of promotional events. A continued inability to generate comparable store sales increases in the future would erode operating margins if we were unable to implement additional cost reductions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We may need funding in addition to our cash flow from operations and existing credit facilities. Based on our current 2007 plan, we believe that the borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility, together with cash on hand, current and anticipated cash flow from operations, and cost reductions associated with our lower store count will be adequate to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements through the first half of 2008. However, if our comparable store sales do not increase as planned in the second half of 2007, we expect that we may need additional financing in 2008 in order to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. Even if our performance during 2007 is on track with plan, we may also seek to obtain additional financing during 2007 for 2008 working capital needs as well as the ability to accelerate implementation of our merchandise and brand acceptance strategies. We are currently exploring various financing strategies. There can be no assurance that additional financing would be possible or could be obtained on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If we are not able to obtain such access to capital, we may not be able to implement our key initiatives to grow our business. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional equity securities, the holdings of existing shareholders may be diluted. We are dependent upon our key supplier to implement our merchandising strategy to offer designer labels in our stores’ outerwear product mix. We plan to introduce additional nationally recognized designer labels into our outerwear offerings beginning in the second quarter of 2007. We believe that in offering these designer labels, we will generate additional traffic and allow more customers the opportunity to favorably compare the high quality of the Wilsons Leather brand to these well-known labels. The successful implementation of this merchandising strategy will depend on our relationship with our key supplier. Our inability to successfully source and integrate additional designer labels into our outerwear merchandise mix may limit acceptance of the Wilsons Leather brand, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in customer shopping patterns could harm our sales. Most of our stores are located in enclosed shopping malls and regional outlet centers. Our ability to sustain or increase the level of sales depends in part on the continued popularity of malls and outlet centers as shopping destinations and the ability of malls and outlet centers, tenants and other attractions to generate a high volume of customer traffic. Many factors beyond our control may decrease mall traffic, including, among other things, economic downturns, rising energy prices, the closing of anchor department stores, weather, concerns of terrorist attacks, construction and accessibility to strip malls, or alternative shopping formats (such as catalogs, e-commerce or discount stores). Any changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to build and grow our wholesale business effectively and timely and we cannot assure that our wholesale business will warrant additional growth or gain market acceptance. In 2006, we laid the foundation for a wholesale business to sell proprietary licensed and branded leather products in geographies and product categories outside our current markets and product mix. During the year, we established relations with certain major retailers and other wholesale customers and expanded our NASCAR licensing rights to our wholesale channel. However, our wholesale business is unproven and still in the early stages of development. Competitive circumstances and consumer characteristics in new markets served by our wholesale business may differ substantially from those in the markets in which we have substantial experience. While we believe that our wholesale business may have the potential for expansion, there can be no assurance that we will expand our wholesale business to a meaningful contributor of sales and profit in the future. We may need to record additional impairment losses in the future if our stores’ operating performance does not improve. We continually review our stores’ operating performance and evaluate the carrying value of their assets in relation to their expected future cash flows. In those cases where circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the applicable assets may not be recoverable, we record an impairment loss related to the long-lived assets. In the 12 Table of Contents fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded an impairment loss of $0.7 million related to certain mall stores’ assets. If our stores’ operating performance does not improve in the future, the carrying value of our stores’ assets may not be recoverable in light of future expected cash flows. This may result in our need to record additional impairment losses in certain markets where our stores operate that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. The high level of competition in our markets may lead to reduced sales and profits. The retail leather outerwear, accessories and apparel markets are highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with a broad range of other retailers, including other specialty retailers, department stores, mass merchandisers and discounters, many of which have greater financial and other resources. Increased competition may reduce sales, increase operating expenses, decrease profit margins, and negatively affect our ability to obtain site locations, sales associates and other employees. During 2003 through 2006, we faced increased competition from department stores, mass merchandisers and discounters as they have significantly expanded into the leather outerwear category at promotional price points. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future and, if we are unable to do so, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Uncertainty in general economic conditions may lead to reduced consumer demand for our leather outerwear, accessories and apparel and could adversely affect our business and liquidity. Meeting our future capital requirements depends on the sustained demand for our leather products. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending on our products, including, among others: • general economic conditions; • rising energy prices; • interest rates; • the availability of consumer credit; • continued hostilities in the Middle East and other significant national and international events; and • taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, such as our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is lower. Any uncertainties in the United States’ economic outlook can adversely affect consumer spending habits and mall traffic and result in lower than expected net sales on a quarterly and annual basis. Increased energy prices put additional pressure on consumer purchases of discretionary items, which could adversely affect our net sales. In addition, these higher energy costs may have the potential to increase our shipping and delivery costs and could adversely affect our merchandise margins if we are unable to pass these costs on to our customers. Unseasonably warm weather, particularly during the fall and winter, has in the past and may in the future negatively effect our sales performance. Unseasonably warm weather during the fall and winter season has negatively impacted our comparable store sales and total net sales performance over the past two years. Continued warm weather trends in the future may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to effectively respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer demands could adversely affect our sales. Our success depends on our ability to identify fashion and product trends as well as our ability to anticipate, gauge and react swiftly to changes in consumer demand. Our products must remain appealing for a broad range of consumers with diverse and changing preferences; however, our orders for products must be placed in advance of 13 Table of Contents customer purchases. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify new fashion trends and adjust our product mix in a timely manner. If we misjudge market preferences, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for other products. In response, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventories. In addition, consumer sentiment toward and demand for leather may change and we may not be able to react to any such changes effectively, or at all. There can be no assurance that demand for our leather products will not decline as a result of negative publicity regarding certain diseases that may affect the supply of hides used to make leather products such as mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease. If we are unable to anticipate, gauge and respond to changes in demand or if we misjudge fashion trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A decrease in the availability of leather or an increase in its price could harm our business. The purchase of leather comprised approximately 51.3%, 55.2% and 56.1% of our costs of goods sold for leather apparel and 52.5%, 47.8% and 47.6% of the costs of goods sold for accessories in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. A number of factors affect the price of leather, including the demand for leather in the shoe, furniture and automobile upholstery industries. In addition, leather supply is influenced by worldwide meat consumption and the availability of hides. Fluctuations in leather supply and pricing, which can be significant, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could have difficulty obtaining merchandise from our foreign suppliers. We import our leather garments and accessories from independent foreign contract manufacturers located primarily in China and India. We do not have long-term contracts or formal supply arrangements with our contract manufacturers. In 2006, approximately 82.0% of our leather garments and accessories contracted for manufacture were purchased from foreign suppliers, with approximately 64.0% purchased from China and 12.0% purchased from India. Trade relations with China and India have, in the past, been contentious. If trade relations with these countries or any other country from which we source goods deteriorate, or if any new or additional duties, quotas or taxes are imposed on imports from these countries, leather purchase and production costs could increase significantly, negatively impacting our sales prices, profitability or the demand for leather merchandise. Further, we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to trade restrictions imposed by the United States government, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions, or whether any other conditions having an adverse effect on our ability to source products will occur. In addition, it will take time for us to transition our sourcing to other countries. Certain other risks related to foreign sourcing include: • transportation delays and interruptions, including delays relating to labor disputes; • economic and political instability; • restrictive actions by foreign governments; • trade and foreign tax laws; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and restrictions on the transfer of funds; and • the possibility of boycotts or other actions prompted by domestic concerns regarding foreign labor practices or other conditions beyond our control. Any event causing a sudden disruption of imports from China, India or other foreign countries, including a disruption due to financial difficulties of a supplier or a catastrophic event (such as, but not limited to, a fire, tornado, flood, or act of terrorism) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed due to a dockworkers’ strike or other similar work action, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers and stores. 14 Table of Contents The seasonality of our business could affect our profitability. Since our leather outerwear and apparel products are most often purchased during the holiday season, we experience substantial fluctuations in our sales and profitability. We generate a significant portion of our net sales from October through January, which includes the holiday selling season. We generated 49.2% of our annual net sales during that time period in 2006, and 23.6% in December alone. Because our profitability, if any, is historically derived in the fourth quarter, our annual results of operations have been, and will continue to be, heavily dependent on the results of operations from October through January. Given the seasonality of our business, misjudgments in fashion trends, the effects of war and other significant national and international events or unseasonably warm or severe weather during our peak selling season could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including: • merchandise mix offered during the peak selling season; • the timing and level of markdowns and promotions by us during the peak selling season; • the timing and level of markdowns and promotions by our competitors during the peak selling season; • consumer shopping patterns and preferences; • the timing of certain holidays; and • the number of shopping days and weekends between Thanksgiving and Christmas. Our inability to renew existing licensing agreements and/or to enter into new relationships could negatively impact our sales. Our sales from licensing agreements are an important component of our business. Net sales of licensed products were $10.9 million, $13.3 million and $9.4 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Under these licensing agreements we are generally required to achieve a minimum level of net sales, pay specified royalties and receive prior approval from the licensor as to all elements of the licensed merchandise we are to offer. We are also limited as to the selling channels we may use and are precluded from competing with certain licensor channels. The licensor generally maintains the right to terminate our license agreement if we fail to satisfy the specified requirements. Certain of our license agreements have provisions requiring us to meet minimum sales and related royalty commitments. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish the following, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • achieve net sales sufficient to cover specified minimum royalty payments that may be required under existing agreements; • successfully negotiate renewal of agreements when they expire; • obtain the ability to sell through additional selling channels, including wholesale; and • enter into new licensing agreements with other parties. The public sale of our common stock issued pursuant to our employee benefit plans or the sale into the market of the shares issued in our equity financing in April 2004 or issuable upon exercise of the warrants delivered in connection with our April 2004 equity financing could decrease the price of our common stock or make it more difficult to obtain additional financing in the future. As of February 3, 2007, 1,122,283 shares were subject to issuance upon the exercise of vested stock options previously granted by us, all of which would be freely tradable if issued, subject to compliance with Rule 144 in the case of our affiliates. In addition, 1,636,921 shares of our common stock have been reserved for issuance pursuant to our employee benefit plans. In connection with the April 25, 2004 equity financing which was completed on July 2, 2004, we issued 17,948,718 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase four million shares of our common stock, subject to certain adjustments, to three institutional investors. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of market sales of such shares of common stock or the perception that such sales will 15 Table of Contents occur. Such sales or the perception that such sales might occur also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Our management must select and apply many of these accounting policies and methods so that they not only comply with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, but they also reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances, yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. Note 1, “Summary of significant accounting policies,” to our consolidated financial statements describes our significant accounting policies. We have identified two accounting policies as being “critical” to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective and/or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to the valuation of inventory and the valuation of property and equipment for impairment. Because of the uncertainty of estimates about these matters, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not: • significantly increase our lower of cost or market allowance for obsolete inventory; or • recognize a significant provision for impairment of our fixed assets at our stores. For more information, refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.” Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in those principles could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our current senior management team. The loss of service of any of these persons could adversely affect our business. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any members of our senior management team. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated. R. Ted Weschler, one of our directors, is the sole managing member of the investment manager of Peninsula Investment Partners, L.P. (“Peninsula”). Peninsula beneficially owned, in the aggregate, 43.6% of our common stock as of March 23, 2007. Peninsula voting alone would be able to exert significant influence over our business and affairs, including: • the election of individuals to our board of directors; • the adoption of amendments to our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation; and • the approval of certain mergers, additional financing, sales of assets, and other business acquisitions or dispositions. 16 Table of Contents In addition, the ownership concentration of our stock may limit liquidity and cause shareholders to experience fluctuations when selling large blocks of our stock. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. Our stock price has been, and is expected to continue to be, highly volatile. There could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price as a result of: • any future sales of our common stock or other securities; • a decline in any month or quarter of our net sales or earnings; • a decline in any month or quarter of comparable store sales; • a deviation in our net sales, earnings or comparable store sales from levels expected by securities analysts; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; or • changes in market valuations of other companies in the same or similar markets. In addition, the Nasdaq Global Marketsm has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. Future market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. Such volatility may limit our future ability to raise additional capital. We rely on third parties for upgrading and maintaining our information systems. The efficient operation of our business is heavily dependent on our information systems. In particular, we rely heavily on the automated sortation system used in our Brooklyn Park, Minnesota distribution center and the merchandise management system used to track sales and inventory. We also rely on a third-party package for our accounting, financial reporting and human resource functions. We depend on our vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade these systems so that these systems continue to support our business. The software programs supporting our automated sorting equipment and processing our inventory management information are licensed to us by independent software developers. The inability of these developers to continue to maintain and upgrade these software programs would disrupt our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. War, acts of terrorism or the threat of either may negatively impact the availability of merchandise and otherwise adversely impact our business. In the event of war or acts of terrorism, or if either is threatened, our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores may be negatively affected. We import a substantial portion of our merchandise from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be adversely affected. The majority of our stores are located in enclosed shopping malls and regional outlet centers. In response to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, security has been heightened in public areas. Any further threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events, particularly in public areas, could lead to lower customer traffic in shopping malls and outlet centers. In addition, local authorities or mall management could close shopping malls and outlet centers in response to any immediate security concern. Mall closures, as well as lower customer traffic due to security concerns, could result in decreased sales that would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant interruption in the operation of our corporate offices and distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our corporate offices and our Brooklyn Park, Minnesota distribution center are in one location. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected if a catastrophic event (such as, but not limited to a, fire, tornado, flood, or act of terrorism) impacts the use of these facilities. Similarly, any such catastrophic event impacting our third-party distribution center in Kent, Washington could also have a material adverse affect on our operations. There can 17 Table of Contents be no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining alternative facilities in a timely manner if such a catastrophic event were to occur. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 