D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this report. Depending on the extent to which any of the following risks materializes, our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations could suffer and you could lose all or part of your investment in our shares. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Our revenue and earnings depend on corporate spending on information technology infrastructure, which may decrease during periods of weak general economic and business conditions or due to significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The deployment of a Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) solution may represent a large portion of a customer's investments in software technology. Decisions to make such an investment are impacted by the economic environments in which our customers operate. Any important business slowdown or recession, or a significant fluctuation in currency exchange rates, particularly as between the U.S. dollar and the euro, could lead our customers to reduce, defer or cancel their investments in information technology. A decline in such investments could cause our revenue, net earnings and cash flows to decrease, or to grow more slowly, whether on an annual or quarterly basis. Due to their specific investment cycles and sensitivities to short-term economic conditions, the various industrial sectors we serve have different degrees of exposure to declines in corporate investment, both in terms of intensity and timing. Although these differences have in recent years generally assisted us in mitigating the potential negative impact of downturns in any particular industry, significant downcycles in several key industrial sectors might in the future occur over the same period, which could cause our revenues, net income and cash flow for such period to decline. 10 DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Form 20-F 2006 Back to Contents As a result of our historical approach to commercializing our PLM products, a substantial portion of our total revenue results from a long-standing marketing and distribution agreement with IBM. Recently, we have begun to assume much greater responsibility for both indirect and direct sales channels for our PLM products. If we do not effectively address the resulting management and commercial challenges, our revenue and ability to grow could be negatively impacted. Pursuant to our long-standing, mutually non-exclusive agreement with IBM, IBM markets and distributes a substantial portion of our PLM products worldwide. According to the terms of the agreement, we license these products to IBM, who then sub-licenses them to end-users. Revenue generated through our agreement with IBM represented 45%, 52% and 56% of our total revenue in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. IBM has substantial discretion and control over such marketing and distribution, including the financial resources devoted to marketing and sales and the compensation of its sales personnel. A decision by IBM to cease, freeze or reduce substantially its marketing and distribution efforts for our PLM products would have an immediate and material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Starting in 2005, we began to significantly expand our role in marketing and distributing our PLM products through the progressive transitioning from IBM to us of full responsibility for the indirect PLM sales channels: •in 2005 we started managing the PLM channel for IBM in a number of European countries and in the United States. In parallel, we began to sell to a network of resellers in China, Australia and New Zealand; •in 2006, we expanded our sales to resellers in France, Belgium, Taiwan and Latin America; •in 2005 and 2006, principally as a result of our two recent major acquisitions, we substantially expanded our PLM direct sales channels; and •in 2007, under a new agreement with IBM, we have continued this transition and begun to sell to a network of resellers in the United States, Canada, the UK and South Korea, among other countries. By 2008, we expect to have responsibility for PLM indirect sales channels on a global basis, while IBM will continue to market our PLM products, including DELMIA and ENOVIA MatrixOne, to large enterprises. See "Item 4B: Business Overview – Sales and Marketing". We must ensure market understanding and acceptance of our evolving role to avoid sales channel conflict, as well as to maintain an effective relationship with IBM. If IBM and we do not properly manage the transition as planned by the new agreement, our revenue and ability to grow may be negatively affected. In order to support our expanding marketing and sales initiatives, we are taking steps to substantially strengthen our global PLM marketing and sales forces and develop the needed tools and processes. If we do not effectively meet these management and commercial challenges, future growth in revenues may be adversely affected, we may lose clients and market opportunities and we may incur substantial costs and inefficiencies. IBM also is not prohibited from competing with us, marketing and distributing competing PLM software applications, providing services around competing PLM software applications, or acquiring or forming a strategic alliance with one or more of our competitors. If we do not maintain and improve the technological strength of our products, demand for them may be reduced. PLM solutions are characterized by the use of rapidly changing technologies and frequent new product introductions or enhancements. These solutions must address complex engineering needs in various areas of product design and manufacturing, and must also meet sophisticated process requirements in the areas of change management, industry collaboration and cross enterprise work. As a result, our success is highly dependent upon our ability: •to understand our customers' needs, and support them in reengineering key product lifecycle processes and managing the migration of substantial amounts of data; •to enhance our existing solutions by developing more advanced technologies; •to anticipate and take timely advantage of quickly evolving technologies; and •to introduce new solutions in a cost-effective and timely manner. We commit substantial resources to the development of new offerings, but we continue to face the challenge of increasingly complex integration of our products' different functionalities to address our customers' PLM requirements. As a result, longer and more difficult industrialization work is required for new releases and offerings. In addition, if we are not successful in anticipating technological leaps and developing new solutions and services that address our customers' increasingly sophisticated expectations, demand for our products could decline, and our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively affected. DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Form 20-F 2006 11 Back to Contents Errors or defects in our products could cause us to incur additional costs, lose revenue and business opportunities and expose us to potential liability. Sophisticated software often contains errors, defects or other performance problems when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. If errors or defects are discovered in our current or future products, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner, or provide an adequate response to our customers. We may therefore need to expend significant financial, technical and management resources, or divert some of our development resources, in order to resolve or work around those defects. We may also experience an increase in our service and warranty costs. Errors, defects or other performance problems in our products may also result in the loss of, or delay in, the market acceptance of our products or postponement of customer deployment. Such difficulties could also cause us to lose customers and, particularly in the case of our largest customers, the potentially substantial associated revenues which would have been generated by our sales to companies participating in the customer's supply chain. Technical problems, or the loss of a customer with a particularly important global reputation, could also damage our own business reputation and cause us to lose new business opportunities. Because errors, defects or other performance problems in our software could result in significant financial or other damage to our customers, our customers could pursue claims against us. A product liability claim brought against us, even if not successful, would likely be time consuming for our management and costly to defend and could adversely affect our marketing efforts. Any insurance we carry may only partially offset the cost of correcting significant errors. Currency fluctuations may significantly affect our results of operations. Our results of operations have been, and may in the future be, significantly affected by changes in exchange rates. Exchange rate fluctuations can impact the revenues and expenses recorded in our statement of income upon translation of other currencies into euro. Although we currently benefit from a natural coverage of most of our exposure to U.S. dollars, our revenues denominated in Japanese Yen, Korean Won and British Pound substantially outweigh our expenditures in these currencies, which exposes our financial results to a potential depreciation in their value relative to the euro. Our net financial revenue can also be significantly affected by changes in exchange rates between the time we recognize revenue and receive cash payments or record and pay an expense. Any such differences are accounted for in the "Exchange gain/loss" portion of our financial revenue. See "Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Foreign currency exchange risk." Since market growth rates for our software applications and the revenue growth rates of our significant competitors are computed in U.S. dollars, such growth rates from period to period may not be comparable to our euro-computed revenue growth rates for the same periods. Claims that our products, or any third-party components embedded in our products, infringe the proprietary rights of others could harm our sales and increase our costs. Third parties, including our competitors, may own or obtain copyrights, patents or other proprietary rights that could restrict our ability to further develop, use, or sell our own product portfolio. We have received in the past, and may in the future receive, communications alleging that our products infringe the patents and other intellectual property rights of others. Such a claim could cause us to incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in any litigation which may be brought, regardless of its merits. If we fail to prevail in intellectual property litigation, we may be required to: •cease making, licensing or using the products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; •obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which licenses might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all; or •redesign our products, which could involve substantial costs and require us to interrupt product licensing and product releases, or which might not be feasible at all. In addition, we embed in our products an increasing number of third party components selected either by us or by companies which we have acquired. Although we have implemented strict approval processes to certify the originality of third party components and verify any corresponding licensing terms, the same approval processes may not have been adopted by companies which we acquire. As a result, the use of third party embedded components in our products exposes us to the risk that a third party will claim that the embedded components infringe their intellectual property rights. If any of the above situations were to occur for a significant product, it could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Form 20-F 2006 Back to Contents The regulatory environments in which we operate have become increasingly complex, including with respect to accounting standards and internal controls. Due to the global reach of our operations and our listings on French and U.S. stock exchanges, we are subject to complex, overlapping and rapidly evolving laws, regulations and requirements, including with respect to our financial statements, which are prepared according to both International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and U.S. GAAP. The laws and regulations to which we are subject have become increasingly complex and apply to a wide variety of areas, including corporate governance and internal controls. The cost of compliance and the failure or suspected failure to comply with any of these regulations may result in increased regulatory scrutiny through inquiries or investigations, adverse media attention and the possible distraction of management time as well as in penalties, fines, disciplinary actions, an increase to our litigation risk or limits on our business operations. A number of these adverse consequences could occur even if it is ultimately determined that there has been no failure to comply. There can be no assurance that additional regulation in any of the jurisdictions in which we now, or in the future may, operate would not significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitive market position could be harmed. Our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary software technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret law and contractual restrictions to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These legal protections afford only limited protection. In addition, effective copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries where intellectual property rights are less protected than in the United States or Western Europe, or as a result of the prior rights of third parties. If our strategies for protecting our intellectual property fail to achieve adequate protection, third parties may develop similar technology and cause a reduction in our software revenues. Furthermore, although we enter into confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, distributors, customers and potential customers, and limit access to and carefully control the distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information, the measures we take may not be adequate to deter misappropriation or independent third party development of our technology. In addition, like most of our competitors, we face an increasing level of piracy of our successful products, both by individuals and by groups acting worldwide, which could potentially affect our growth in specific markets. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could seriously harm our operating results. We may not prevail in any such litigation and our intellectual property rights may be found invalid or unenforceable. We expect our quarterly operating results to continue to fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly and are likely to vary significantly in the future, depending on factors such as: •the timing and cyclical nature of revenues received due to the signing of important new customer orders, the completion of major service contracts or the completion of customer deployments; •the timing of announcements regarding any significant acquisitions or divestitures; •fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; •our ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products and customer order deferrals in anticipation of these new or enhanced products; •the number, timing and significance of product enhancements or new products that we develop or that are released by our competitors; and •general conditions in our software markets, the software industry generally and computer industries and regional economies. A substantial portion of our orders and shipments typically occur in the last month of each quarter and therefore, if any delay occurs in the timing of the order, we may experience significant quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. Additionally, as is typical in the software applications industry, we have historically experienced our highest licensing activity for the year during the month of December. Delays in orders and shipments can affect our revenue and income. The trading price of our shares and ADSs may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating results of other software applications developers in our markets. In addition, capital markets around the world experience from time to time extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may particularly affect the market prices for many high-technology companies which have become highly volatile. DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Form 20-F 2006 13 Back to Contents Because we rely on IBM to provide us information as to the level of a significant portion of our revenue, we generally are not in a position to know our revenue for any particular period within the same timeframe as would otherwise be possible. As a result, we may not be able to confirm or adjust expectations as to sales achieved for a particular period as quickly as we otherwise could, or within the same timeframe as some other companies in our industry. If we are unable to hire or retain our key personnel and executives, our business activities and operating results may be negatively affected. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key managers and highly qualified research and development, technical, support, sales management and other personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. In particular, if we fail to hire on a timely basis, and retain, highly skilled sales forces, we may hinder the expansion of the sales organization and slow growth in revenues. The competition for such employees is intense, and if we lose the ability to hire and retain key employees and executives with a diversity and high level of skills in appropriate domains (such as research and development and sales), it could have a material adverse impact on our business activities and operating results. We generally do not maintain insurance with respect to the loss of our key personnel. The growth of Dassault Systèmes creates organizational stresses which can adversely affect our business or financial performance. Dassault Systèmes has continued to expand through acquisitions and internal development. Our significant growth in revenues, employees, operations and customer contacts creates organizational stresses as management policies and internal systems must be adapted and integrated to meet the needs of a larger, more complex structure. We must also continue to re-organize ourselves to maintain efficiency, and remain focused on our strategy while ensuring customer retention. If we do not address these issues effectively and in a timely manner, our product development, internal processes and commercial operations may experience inefficiencies or fail to satisfy adequately market or customer demands, which could adversely affect our business performance. In addition, in order to realize future acquisitions or investments, we may use significant financial resources, make potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or incur debt. These transactions may also cause us to incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets other than goodwill, or generate goodwill subject to annual (or more frequent) impairment tests. Minority interests or other investments in unaffiliated partners may also have to be written down in our accounts as a result of impairment. Acquired companies may also carry the risk of unanticipated or contingent liabilities, including litigation risk related to prior events (see above the risk of claims that embedded components violate third-pary intellectual property rights). Each of these potential consequences of an investment or acquisition could reduce our operating margin or net income. Also, due to local regulatory constraints, a planned acquisition might not be realized as anticipated or at all. Our products, business development and sales could be adversely affected if we experience difficulties with our partners. Our PLM strategy requires fully integrated solutions of computer-aided-design, simulation and manufacturing and data management products, which are themselves increasingly complex. To implement our PLM strategy, we have chosen to partner with other companies in such areas as: •hardware and technology, to maximize our benefits from available technology; •product development, to enable software developers to create and market their own software applications using our key product architecture; and •consulting and services, to support customers adapting and deploying PLM solutions. We believe that our partnering strategy allows us to reduce costs while achieving broader market coverage. Our broad partnering strategy creates a degree of dependency on such partners. Serious difficulties in our relationships with our partners, or an unfavorable change of control of our partners, may adversely affect our products, business development and sales. In addition, any failure by our partners to deliver products of the quality or according to the timing expected may cause delays in the delivery of, or deficiencies in, our own products. Competitive price pressure and a longer sales cycle could negatively impact our revenue, financial performance and market position. Over the last several years prices have declined in the technological market, and this trend could continue or accelerate. This price decline may result from competition, low marginal production costs and/or rapid technological change. In addition, in the past few years, we have seen a move towards consolidation in our industry, which may lead to increased competitive pressure. Industry consolidation may also lead to the adoption by competitors of business models fundamentally different than ours, causing a substantial decline in prices and requiring us to adapt to a substantially different market environment. These competitive price pressures could negatively impact our revenue, financial performance and market position. 14 DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Form 20-F 2006 Back to Contents In parallel, due to the complexity of our PLM products, the sales cycle for PLM products is relatively long. If the sales cycle lengthens further, we could face a slowdown in our revenue growth. Our research and development facilities are subject to risks of damage or temporary unavailability. Our research and development facilities are computer-based and rely on the proper functioning of complex software and integrated hardware systems. However, it is not possible to guarantee the uninterrupted operation and security of these systems. For example, the invasion of our computer-based systems by either computer hackers or industrial pirates could interfere with their proper functioning and cause substantial damage, loss of data or delays in on-going research and production activities. Computer viruses, whether deliberately or unintentionally introduced, could also cause similar damage, loss or delays. As many of our systems include advanced or state-of-the-art functionalities, computer "bugs" or design errors could cause malfunctions. In addition, because our research and production facilities are located in a limited number of principal sites, including our headquarters outside Paris in a possible flood zone, our facilities in Japan and California which may be exposed to earthquakes and our site in Israel, substantial physical damage to any one of our sites, by natural causes or by attack or local violence, could materially reduce our ability to continue our normal business operations. If any of these circumstances were to arise, the resulting damage, loss or delays could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the risks inherent in international operations. As a global participant in the software industry, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international operations that are beyond our control. These risks include tariffs, duties, export controls and other trade barriers; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and applicable laws; and political and economic instability in certain countries. Any of these factors could harm our operating results. There can be no assurance that we will not experience material adverse effects with respect to our international operations and sales. Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault owns approximately 44.45% of our outstanding shares, and continues to act as controlling shareholder. Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault (GIMD), which represents the interests of some of our founding shareholders, has maintained its substantial interest in Dassault Systèmes and owned approximately 44.45% of our outstanding shares and controlled approximately 44.46% of the voting rights as of December 31, 2006. As a result, GIMD continues to act as controlling shareholder with respect to matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Technology-related stock prices have generally been volatile, and this volatility may depress our stock price. The market price of our shares and ADSs is likely to be highly volatile, as the market for shares of technology companies has generally been more volatile than the stock market overall. The price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar value of any dividends will be affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/euro exchange rate. Our ADSs are quoted in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs. For example, because our financial statements are reported in euro, a decline in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar would reduce our earnings as reported in U.S. dollars. This could adversely affect the price at which the ADSs trade on the U.S. securities markets. Our dividends are denominated in euro; a decline in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar would reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of any such dividend. Holders of ADSs may be subject to additional risks related to holdings ADSs rather than shares. ADS holders will generally have the right to instruct the depositary to exercise the voting right for the shares represented by the ADSs. However, because holders of ADSs do not hold their shares directly, there can be no guarantee that they will receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote. It is possible that ADS holders, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other intermediaries, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote at all. Preemptive rights may be unavailable to holders of our ADSs. Under French law, upon the issuance of new shares or equity-related securities for payment, we may grant preemptive rights to our shareholders to subscribe to such securities on a prorata basis. However, holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise these preemptive rights for the shares underlying their ADSs unless both the rights and the shares are registered under the Securities Act of 1933 or an exemption from registration is available. At the time of any rights offering, considering the costs and benefits associated with such an offering to the ADS holders, or other factors, we may elect not to file such a registration statement or an exemption from registration may not be available. If preemptive rights cannot be exercised by an ADS holder, the depositary of our ADS program may sell such holder's preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds to the holder. If the sale of such rights is not lawful or reasonably practicable or is not possible for any other reason, the ADS depositary may allow the rights to lapse, in which case the ADS holders will receive no value for these rights. DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Form 20-F 2006 15 Back to Contents 