D. Risk Factors - Failure to obtain or maintain permits required for our operations may adversely affect our operating results”. The Israeli government is authorized to control the retail and wholesale prices of goods and services offered in Israel. At present, a few of the products we offer in our stores, including bread, flour, eggs, milk and margarine are subject to government-imposed price controls. Any imposition of more extensive price controls in the future than those that currently exist may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. See “Item 3. Key Information - Risk Factors - D. Government-imposed price controls may have a material adverse to effect on our operating results”. Deposits for Drink Containers A law effective October 1, 2001 requires stores to charge a deposit for drink containers of less than 1.5 liters and more than 0.1 liter and accept the return of empty containers for refund. The Knesset, the Israeli parliament, is considering an amendment to this law which, among other things would require stores to also charge a deposit for drink containers of 1.5 liters and more and accept the return of empty containers for refund. 30 We have incurred expenses to allocate storage space for the empty containers and dedicate special cashiers for returning the deposits. We have also incurred expenses for additional personnel and equipment, including equipment in some of our stores that enable consumers to automatically receive their deposits while bringing back the empty containers without the need for store personnel. Limits on Expansion The Israeli Antitrust Authority may limit our ability to execute our strategy of expanding our market presence. The Commissioner of the Israeli Antitrust Authority may limit our ability to acquire existing stores or enter into mergers to acquire existing stores. Arrangements between Major Supermarkets Chains and Large Suppliers From April 2000 to May 2003, the Israeli Antitrust Authority conducted an investigation into alleged restrictive trade arrangements between major supermarkets chains in Israel and large suppliers. During the investigation, an inquiry was conducted in our offices and our former CEO and other senior officers were questioned. On January 5, 2005, the Commissioner of the Israeli Antitrust Authority issued his position regarding “commercial restrictive practices between the dominant food suppliers and the major supermarket retail chains”. According to the Commissioner’s position, some of these practices were found to be restrictive trade agreements under the antitrust laws. The Commissioner prohibited these practices unless approved by the Restrictive Trade Practices Court or exempted by the Commissioner himself. Among the practices that were found to be restrictive according to the Commissioner were the following: arrangements with suppliers that determine the suppliers of the retail chains, their identity and their number; arrangements for the management of product categories in conjunction with suppliers; arrangements regarding the retail selling price; arrangements for determining market share of a particular supplier’s products and arrangements for determining prices made by suppliers to competing chains; arrangements with regard of the use of suppliers’ manpower to stock merchandise on the shelves of the chains’ stores. Limits were imposed on financial benefits to the chains with regard to display areas and on special offers to chains for meeting certain sale targets. After the publication of the position paper, the Commissioner stated his position that these directives constitute a position paper, which is “intended to provide the guidance concerning the normative status of various practices in the food retail industry as perceived by the Antitrust Authority”. The Commissioner indicated that this document does not have normative status. We have been applying most of these directives among others, by an internal compliance program adopted by us. Presently we do not know how, if at all, our business would be affected should the Commissioner take any action against us with respect to those issues under dispute which we believe are legal based on our consultations with our legal counsel. 31 In August 2006, the Restrictive Trade Practices Court approved a consent decree reached between the Commissioner and certain food suppliers. The consent decree is directed at the food suppliers listed therein and stipulates various prohibitions, conditions and restrictions that apply to these suppliers with regard to certain practices. The consent decree addresses the following arrangements: · Reduction in the number of suppliers. Suppliers are prohibited from being a party to an arrangement by which they influence the setting of the number or identity of competing suppliers’ presence at retail chains. Decisions regarding the number and identity of suppliers and their products quantity, kind or location on the shelf space are to be made by the retail chain without interference by suppliers. · Acquisition of shelf and off-shelf display space. A dominant supplier is prohibited to be a part of: (i) an arrangement granting an allocation exceeding half of the overall display area designated for the product category in which he has dominance; (ii) an arrangement which its purpose or effect is granting exclusivity to one or more of the supplier’s products in an off-shelf display in which it has dominance (nevertheless, exclusive arrangement for off-shelf display for a limited discount period will not constitute a basis for enforcement measures under certain circumstances). In addition, arrangements with suppliers (as opposed to dominant suppliers) regarding allocation of shelf area or off-shelf display, if not prohibited according to the decree, may not exceed a period of one year (the retail chain and the supplier may enter a new arrangement at the end of the one year term, provided the period of such new arrangement does not exceed one year and is in accordance with the provisions of the decree). · Category management: Unless prior approval of the antitrust authorities is obtained, a dominant supplier is prohibited to be party to an arrangement whose purpose or effect is the supplier involvement (including as advisor) in the process of category management (nevertheless, a retail chain may consult with a supplier regarding innovations in this area). · Shelve arrangements: Whereas in his position document, the Commissioner determined that the use of suppliers’ representatives to physically arrange the shelves in the chains’ stores constitutes a restrictive arrangement, the suppliers disagree with this position, and the Commissioner agreed not to take enforcement measures with regard to such arrangements for 30 months, so long as such arrangements satisfy certain conditions. As of the date of this Annual Report, the Company is examining its compliance in light of the Commission's position and the consent decree. · Discounts and rebates in exchange for meeting sales targets. A dominant supplier may not be party to an agreement whose objective or effect is the grant benefits to the retail chain in connection to meeting sales targets of the products in which the supplier has dominance, unless the benefit is given only as a discount to the purchase of units sold in excess of the supplier’s sales basis in the chain and is restricted to these units alone. The prices of units sold in excess of the sales goals shall not be lower than the production costs of these units. In addition, a dominant supplier is prohibited from sanctioning a retail chain for failure to meet monopolistic sales targets regarding products for which the supplier posseses monopolistic power. 32 · Setting market share. A supplier is prohibited from being a party to an arrangement whose purpose or effect is to determine the supplier’s market share (or restricting the market share of competing suppliers) in the chain’s sales. · Exclusivity in sales: A supplier is prohibited from entering into the following arrangements with retail chains without the prior approval of the antitrust authorities: (i) an arrangement whose purpose or effect is to restrict the ability of competing suppliers to respond to sales conducted by such supplier by way of lowering their prices and (ii) an arrangement whose purpose or effect is to restrict the ability of competing chains to respond to sales conducted by another chain, including by way of commitment of the supplier not to offer a similar sale to competing chains. · Price dictation by supplier. A supplier is prohibited from setting the consumer price of its products sold in the chain and from intervening in chain decisions regarding the setting of the consumer price of its products or of its competitors’ products. Nevertheless, a supplier may recommend the resale consumer price of its products to the chain, provided that the supplier takes no action to enforce such recommendation. The consent decree clarifies that nothing in the provisions contained therein prevents the chain from allocating shelf space at its own independent discretion, even if such allocation exceeds half the available shelf space, so long as there is no involvement or interference from the supplier and so long as there is no prior coordination or understanding with said supplier. The Company is not a party to the consent decree; however, it could nevertheless have an effect on the practices of the Company’s suppliers and indirectly on the Company. At this stage, the Company cannot estimate the effect of the the Commissioner's position and the consent decree on its financial results. Consumer Protection Laws We are obligated to label prices on our products on the basis of two main laws: The Consumer Protection Law, 1981, and the Commodities and Services (Control) Law, 1957. Contravention of these laws constitutes a criminal offense. In 2008, the Economic Affairs Committee of the Knesset, the Israeli parliament, approved new regulations under the Consumer Protection Law, under which, we will be obligated to indicate on the shelf the price per measurement unit with respect to various products. These regulations have not yet been officially published, but they are expected to become effective on January 1, 2009. Such regulations would impose on us additional costs and could increase the risk for discrepancies between the prices that appear on the products, the prices that appear on the shelf and the prices charged by the cash register. In 2007, we were convicted in a plea bargain in connection with discrepancies between the prices appearing on products, and the prices charged by the cash register at the point of sale. See “Item 8. Financial information - A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information - Legal Proceedings”. These discrepancies are the result of human error by personnel responsible for labeling our products and other circumstances beyond the Company's control. We are making efforts to minimize these errors, including directing store management to charge the lower price in situations where a discrepancy is found between the price on a product and the price appearing at the cash register. 33 We are also obligated under these laws to advertise and conduct our business in a manner that is not misleading to our customers. Our obligations include, among other things, ensuring that our advertised prices are the prices that are actually charged by the cash registers in our stores, and ensuring that our coupons may be used in our stores as advertised. In December 2005, the applicability of the Consumer Protection Law with respect to the prohibition of misleading conduct was expanded to apply also to conduct following the completion of the transaction between the consumer and the supplier. In addition, under the Consumer Protection Law, we are obligated to post our merchandise return policy in our stores. The law and regulations promulgated thereunder impose various requirements regarding the location, details, size and shape of the notice of such policy. In 2006, new regulations were promulgated under the Consumer Protection Law, which regulate the warranty and post-sale services of certain electrical appliances. Under the regulations, sellers of new electrical appliances (priced in excess of NIS 400) to the end user consumer are required to assume the responsibilities of the manufacturer(s) of the appliances in the event such manufacturer cannot be located. Such responsibilities include repairing any defect in the appliance (or, if necessary, exchange for non-defective appliance) during the warranty period, which repairs must be made within a certain period of time for certain appliances and, upon consumer request, supply of spare parts during the warranty period (and for certain appliances also one year thereafter). In addition, sellers must deliver to consumers a manufacturer warranty certificate with the delivery of the products. Recent proposed amendments to the Consumer Protection Law, 1981 and to the regulations promulgated thereunder, would also grant to consumers rights to cancel a transaction and receive a refund under various circumstances. In 2006, the Class Actions Law (the “Law”) was enacted (which codified prior existing class actions arrangements, including under the Consumer Protection Law). Under the Law, among other things, the causes of action under which one can bring a class action were substantially extended, the prerequisites for certifying and maintaining a class action were alleviated and the eligibility requirements for a class action representative were lowered. The Law is not unique to the line of business in which we engage; however, the expansion of the availability of the Law to potential claimants increases our exposure to potential lawsuits. 34 Under a recent amendment to the Consumer Protection Law, 1981, a remedy of exemplary (punitive) damages may be provided to plaintiffs for specific violations of the law under certain circumstances. By virtue of this amendment, the court may grant an amount of no more than of NIS 10,000 in punitive damages and an amount exceeding NIS 10,000 but no more than NIS 50,000 if the court finds that the violation is a "repeat" or "continuing" violation or was made in "aggravated circumstances". Recently, several proposed legislations were submitted to the Knesset regarding the reduction of usage of plastic (nylon) bags. Under the proposed legislations, it is proposed, among other things, that: (i) business establishments (including food retail chains) will not keep or use bags which are not bio-degradable; (ii) food retail chains would be required to provide to its consumers with packing bags designated for more than one use, free of charge or for minimal consideration; (iii) a levy in the sum of NIS 1 would be imposed for each plastic bag (with certain exceptions) to be collected from the consumers by the business establishment and to be transferred to a cleaning protection fund; (iv) the business establishment would offer to consumers the ability to purchase packing bags for more than one use for not less than NIS 4.5 which are exempt from the levy; and (v) various reporting obligations would be imposed on business establishments to the supervisor of the Ministry of environment protection. This proposed new legislation and other similar proposed legislation may increase our operational expenses and may require us to make additional investments in our stores if they were to become effective. Drugstores Fifteen of our supermarkets include drugstores, which sell, among other products, prescription and non-prescription medicines. Under the Pharmacists Ordinance, 1981 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, we are subject to requirements relating to the storage, packaging and administration of drugs, storage of poisonous products, supervision requirements, sanitary conditions, marketing of controlled substances, requirements relating to medical devices, documentation requirements and other related requirements relating to the operation of drugstores. In addition, each drugstore must be supervised and managed by a licensed “supervisor pharmacist”. We employ in our drugstores supervisor pharmacists, pharmacists and pharmacist assistants, all of whom have the required licenses. Under the Pharmacists Regulation (Sale of Preparation without Prescription not in Pharmacy or by Pharmacist), over-the-counter pharmaceutical medical products (“OTC drugs”) may be sold by individuals other than pharmacists and in places other than drugstores. We are subject to certain obligations and requirements regarding the sale of OTC drugs in our stores, among them: appointment of a supervisor in each store that sells OTC drugs, maximum selling quotas to individual consumers and requirements relating to the size, composition, sanitation, temperature and safety of the stores selling OTC drugs. 35 New Proposed Business License Regulation By virtue of The Businesses License Law, 1968, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and as a condition of the receipt of permits, we are required to comply with various safety, security, health, environment and other requirements. Under the proposed new Businesses License Regulation (Proper Sanitation Conditions to Grocery), some existing requirements will be tightened and new requirements will be imposed on the operation of our stores. The new regulation would contain new or more stringent requirements relating to the following: requirements as to the building of our stores, designation of separated space to some specialty departments, drainage system requirements, sanitation, ventilation, lighting, temperature, water, sewage, waste handling, food storage, signage, food transportation and maintenance requirements, cooling device requirements and display and quality requirements. This proposed new Business License Regulation, would require us to make additional investments in our stores if it were to become effective. Gasoline Stations We are also subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to, among other things, environment protection, licensing and permits proceedings, standardization requirements and other requirements in connection with the construction, establishment and operation of gasoline stations on our properties described below in “