ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a discussion of certain factors that currently impact or may impact our business, operating results and/or financial condition. Anyone making an investment decision with respect to our common stock or other securities is cautioned to carefully consider these factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of future operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. Our quarterly results fluctuate significantly and we may not be able to grow our business. Our total revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast and can vary, sometimes substantially, from quarter to quarter, and we expect them to vary significantly in the future. Our future quarterly operating results are affected by many factors, including the following: • the demand for our products and services; • the level of product and price competition; • the length of our sales cycle; • the size, elements and timing of individual software arrangements; • the renewal rates for our annual software licenses; • the delay or deferral of customer implementations; • the budget cycles of our customers; • our success in expanding our direct sales force or indirect distribution channels; • the acceptance and timing of our new product introductions and enhancements, as well as those of our competitors; • our mix of products and services; • our level of international sales; • our ability to successfully implement our operational, growth and other strategies; • the timing and amount of software capitalization and amortization; • the activities of and acquisitions by our competitors; • our timing of new hires; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and • our ability to develop and market new products and to control costs. 9 Table of Contents Our license fee revenues depend on when orders are received from and shipped to customers. However, because of our revenue recognition policies, our customers’ implementation schedule and the complexity of the implementation process, revenue from some software shipments may not be recognized in the same quarter as the shipment occurs. Our operating expenses are primarily based on anticipated revenue levels. Since a high percentage of those expenses are relatively fixed, a delay in the recognition of revenue from license transactions could cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter, and we may sustain losses as a result. To the extent such expenses precede, and/or are not subsequently followed by, increased revenues, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. As a result of these factors, results from operations for any quarter are subject to significant variation, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not necessarily be meaningful. Accordingly, you should not rely upon them as an indication of our future performance. Furthermore, our operating results in future quarters may fall below the expectations of market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Our growth depends on market acceptance of our existing products, enhancements to existing products and introduction of new products. Our future business, operating results and financial condition depend upon market acceptance of our existing products, as well as our ability to respond to emerging industry standards and practices and to develop new products that address the future needs of our target markets. Our Autograph family of products has been applied mainly to document automation applications producing paper-based documents. We have started to extend our core technology to the Internet, intranets and commercial on-line services. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing, introducing and marketing new products or product enhancements, including new products or the extension of existing products for the Internet, intranets and commercial on-line services, on a timely and cost effective basis, if at all. In addition, we cannot assure you that our newer products, such as xPresso and xPression, or enhancements to existing products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Moreover, delays in our commercial shipments of new products or enhancements may result in client dissatisfaction and a delay or loss of product revenues. In addition, in order to provide our customers with integrated product solutions, our future success will also depend in part upon our ability to maintain and enhance relationships with our technology partners. If for technological or other reasons we are unable to develop and introduce new products or enhancements of existing products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or client requirements, then our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we cannot assure you that our existing products, new products or new versions of our existing products will achieve market acceptance. Longer than expected sales cycles and implementation periods have and may continue to affect our revenues and operating results. The licensing of our software products is often an enterprise-wide decision by prospective customers and generally involves a sales cycle of three months to more than one year in order to educate these prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products, often requiring us to expend considerable financial and personnel resources without any assurance that revenue will be realized. In addition, the implementation of our products by customers involves a significant commitment of their resources over an extended period of time and is commonly associated with substantial customer business process reengineering efforts. Sales of our enterprise-wide xPression product line often involve many participants in the corporate decision-making process. Additionally, we have experienced and may, from time to time, continue to experience defects in our software which cause implementation problems and affect our revenues and our sales cycle. For these and other reasons, our sales cycles and customer implementation periods are subject to a number of significant delays over which we may have little or no control. Any delay in the sale or customer implementation of a limited number of license transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. 10 Table of Contents We currently derive a significant portion of our revenues through Xerox. We currently have a variety of contractual and informal relationships with Xerox and affiliates of Xerox, including a cooperative marketing agreement, a transfer and license agreement and various distribution agreements. We rely on these relationships and agreements for a significant portion of our total revenues. Revenues derived from relationships with Xerox and affiliates of Xerox accounted for approximately $3.4 million, $3.8 million and $4.1 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, representing approximately 10%, 13% and 18% of our total revenues, respectively. In November 2003, we paid $2.7 million to Xerox to repurchase the remaining 740,024 shares of Document Sciences’ common stock owned by Xerox. Since Xerox no longer has an equity interest in us, there may be less incentive in continuing to do business with us at the same level. Though we intend to continue our existing relationships with Xerox, our strategy has been, and continues to be, to lessen our dependence on Xerox. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so and, because of our current level of dependence on Xerox, there can be no assurance that our plans to become more independent will not adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to maintain these relationships with Xerox or to establish new relationships in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that existing and potential customers will continue to do business with us because of these relationships or our historical ties with Xerox and its affiliates. Xerox has strategic alliances and other business relationships with other companies who supply software and services used in high volume electronic publishing applications and who now are, or in the future may become, our competitors. There can be no assurance that Xerox or one of its affiliated companies will not engage in a business that directly competes with us. In addition, Xerox has ongoing internal development activities that could in the future lead to products that compete with us. Xerox could in the future expand these relationships or enter into additional ones, and as a result our business could be materially adversely affected. Our growth depends on our ability to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The market for dynamic content publishing products is intensely competitive. We face competition from a broad range of competitors, many of whom have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Our principal competition currently comes from systems developed in-house by the internal IS departments of large organizations and direct competition from numerous software vendors, including Docucorp International, Inc., InSystems Technologies, Inc., Group 1 Software, Inc., Exstream Software, Inc. and Metavante Corporation. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our market include product performance and functionality, ease of use, scalability, operating across multiple computer and operating system platforms, product and company reputation, client service and support and price. Although we believe that we currently compete favorably with respect to such factors, we can not assure you that we will be able to maintain our competitive position against current and future competitors, especially those with greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us, or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products or new solutions introduced by existing competitors or by new competitors entering the market. Our operating results are substantially dependent on sales of a small number of products in highly concentrated industries. We derived a substantial percentage of our license revenue from two product lines in 2006 and 2005. As a result, factors that may adversely impact the pricing of or demand for these products, such as competition from other products, negative publicity or obsolescence of the hardware or software environments in which our products run, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our financial performance will depend significantly on the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our xPression software and xPresso software, as well as continued customer acceptance of CompuSet, DLS and related products. 11 Table of Contents Revenues from end users in the insurance industry accounted for 46% of total revenues in 2006. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to successfully market our products in the insurance industry, as well as the finance and print services industries, and introduce their use in new industries. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Inaccurate sales forecasts and/or revenue projections could cause improper planning and budgeting of our resources. Our revenues, and particularly our new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast, and as a result our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. In particular, our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the “conversion rate” of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. A variation in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. While this sales estimation process provides us with some guidance in business planning, it is based on estimates only and is therefore subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Because a substantial portion of our new software license revenue contracts are completed in the latter part of a quarter, and our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. A delay in even a small number of large new software license transactions could cause our quarterly new software licenses revenues to fall significantly short of our predictions. Our growth is dependent upon successfully focusing our distribution channels. To grow our business, we must improve the performance of our worldwide sales and distribution channels by focusing on key target industry market segments where our current and planned products can enjoy a significant competitive advantage and high market demand. We also must leverage our existing relationships with Xerox and other partners by launching targeted joint marketing and value added reseller programs and by introducing new product offerings that are optimized for selected target markets and marketing channels. Additionally, we must form additional partnerships with system integrators and consultants in order to broaden our capacity to deliver complete dynamic content publishing solutions that incorporate significant services content, while also maintaining our core domain expertise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully streamline and focus our worldwide channels, leverage our existing relationships or form new alliances. If we fail to do so, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products may suffer from defects or errors. Software products, as complex as those we offer, may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. As a result, depending on the severity of the defect or error, we could in the future forego or delay recognition of revenues as a result of these errors or defects. In addition, our products are typically intended for use in applications that may be critical to a customer’s business. As a result, we expect that our customers and potential customers have a greater aversion and sensitivity to product defects than the general market for software products. We experienced defects in connection with the introduction of our xPression product line in 2004, and believe that we have addressed this problem, but we cannot assure you that, despite our testing, as well as testing by current and potential customers, additional errors will not be found in our existing products or new products or releases. Defects discovered after the commencement of commercial shipments, can result in loss of revenue, delay in market acceptance, diversion of our development resources, damage to our reputation and/or increased service and warranty costs. 12 Table of Contents Maintaining our professional services expertise is necessary for our future growth. We are continuing our focus on the consulting services component of our professional services to assist customers in the planning and implementation of enterprise-wide, mission-critical dynamic content publishing applications. This strategy is dependent on hiring and retaining qualified professional staff to perform these consulting services. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in developing and retaining our professional services workforce. We are exposed to risks associated with international operations. Our revenues from export sales accounted for 14%, 17% and 25% of our total revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We license our products in Europe through value-added resellers (VARs) and to a much lesser extent, direct sales. Revenues generated by these activities were $3.1 million, $3.2 million and $3.5 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In Australia, Canada and Latin America, our products are distributed and/or supported by Xerox affiliates and also by direct sales in Canada. In China, our products are distributed and/or supported by our subsidiary, Objectiva. Revenues generated in these regions were $1.5 million, $1.8 million and $2.3 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In order to successfully expand export sales, we must increase our international presence in select countries, hire additional personnel and develop relationships with additional international resellers. If we are unable to do so in a timely manner, our growth in international export sales could be limited, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Our international business activities could also be adversely impacted by losing the services of key VARs, difficulties in managing our international operations, our limited experience in localizing products for foreign countries resulting in a lack of acceptance of these localized products, longer payment cycles for accounts receivable, currency fluctuations, unexpected adverse changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, imposition of additional trade barriers and restrictions, potentially adverse tax consequences including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings, and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. Our Objectiva software engineering and professional services team of 222 employees is located in a 21,800 square foot facility in Beijing, China. We are subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting operations in China, including those related to general economic conditions, regulatory changes, political unrest and potential reduced protection for our intellectual property rights. In addition to facing the difficulty of managing a large offshore organization, we must comply with a variety of laws and regulations, including trade restrictions, local labor ordinances, changes in tariff rates and import and export licensing requirements. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. A portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, primarily the Euro and the Chinese Yuan. Although exchange rate fluctuations have not had a significant impact on us, fluctuations in the value of the currencies in which we conduct our business relative to the U.S. Dollar could cause currency transaction gains and losses in future periods. We do not currently engage in currency hedging transactions, and we cannot assure you that fluctuations in currency exchange rates in the future will not have a material adverse impact on our international revenues and our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business is dependent on the market for dynamic content publishing software. The market for dynamic content publishing software is intensely competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change. We cannot assure you that the market for dynamic content publishing software will continue to grow or that, if it does grow, organizations will adopt our products. Although we have spent, and intend to 13 Table of Contents continue to spend, significant resources developing open-architecture software products and educating potential customers about the benefits of our products, we cannot assure you that such expenditures will enable our products to achieve further market acceptance. Additionally, if the dynamic content publishing software market develops more slowly than we currently anticipate, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, the market for dynamic content publishing of electronic documents designed for use with the Internet, intranets and commercial on-line services has only recently begun to develop, and the success of our products designed for this market will depend in part on their compatibility with these elements. Since the increased commercial use of the Internet, intranets and commercial on-line services is difficult to predict and could require substantial modification and customization of certain of our products and services, as well as the introduction of new products and services, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively or successfully compete in this market. Our ability to manage future change could affect our business. Our ability to compete effectively and to manage future change will require us to continue to improve our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures on a timely basis and to expand, train and manage our work force. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so successfully. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our business, and these officers and key personnel may not remain with us in the future. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified product development, sales and management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be able to attract or retain other highly qualified product development, sales and managerial personnel in the future. Our business is dependent upon successfully protecting our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Despite these protective measures, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy portions of our products or use information we consider proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and, while we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, we expect software piracy to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. We are not aware of any infringement of our products upon the proprietary rights of third parties. However, we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products. We expect that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows, companies hire employees from competitors, and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our failure to adequately limit our exposure to product liability claims may adversely affect us. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. However, it is possible that the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, sale and support of our products may entail the risk of such claims in the future. A successful product liability claim brought against us or a claim arising as a result of our professional services could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Integration of potential business or technology acquisitions may be difficult. If we acquire complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves, we may be unable to successfully integrate an acquired business, product or technology in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner. Integrating any business, product or technology that we acquire could be expensive and time-consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract company management. In addition, in order to finance any acquisition, we might need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings. In that event, we could be forced to obtain financing on less than favorable terms which, in the case of equity financing, may result in dilution to our stockholders. If we are unable to integrate any acquired entities, products or technologies effectively, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, under certain circumstances, amortization of assets or charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions could have a negative impact on our reported operating results and financial condition. Enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASD have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to continue to devote a substantial amount of time to comply with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our annual legal and financial compliance costs, have made some activities more time-consuming and costly, and could expose us to additional liability. In addition, these rules and regulations may make retention and recruitment of qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or executive management team more difficult. If any of these events occur, it could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 