Item 1A. Risk Factors Please carefully consider the following risk factors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The risk factors described below are not the only ones we face. Risks and uncertainties not known to us currently, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our inability to repay or refinance our Notes Payable, with a principal balance of $7.8 million, upon any default notice could adversely affect our liquidity, business, financial performance and going concern, and is requiring us to evaluate and consider strategic alternatives. The Company defaulted on the $7.8 million outstanding amount of its notes payable (the “Notes Payable”), issued by the Company under that certain Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 21, 2008 by failing to repay them on the scheduled maturity date of November 15, 2009. The Notes Payable are secured by a pledge of substantially all of the Company’s assets. On March 19, 2010, the Company received a payment demand (the “Notice”) for default interest from one of the holders of the Notes Payable representing approximately 73% of the outstanding balance (the “Holder”). As of September 28, 2010, the Company has not repaid the Notes Payable or the default interest referenced in the Notice. However, the Company and the Holder continue to negotiate in good faith to amend the terms of the Holder’s Notes Payable to, among other things, (i) extend the maturity date to April 15, 2011, (ii) to modify certain covenants and (iii) require a pledge by two of the most significant shareholders and directors of the Company, E. Gerald Kay and Carl DeSantis, of additional collateral, as well as limited personal guarantees by them. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to finalize the restructuring or amendment of the Notes Payable. In the interim, the Company has continued to make timely interest payments to the Note Payable holders at the non default rate of 8% pe r annum and is evaluating its strategic alternatives, which may include business divestitures, developing business and sales strategies to increase operating income, the sale of some or all of the Companys assets or operating subsidiaries and/or capital restructuring plans. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in finalizing the contemplated debt restructuring with respect to the Notes Payable with our current lenders and/or replacing our current lenders, our ability to continue as a going concern could be further impacted. As of September 28, 2010, the Company has not received any additional demand of payment notices from the amended Notes Payable holders nor have the note holders exercised their rights to foreclose on the pledged collateral. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the note holders have the right to give the Company a written notice of such event of default (an “Acceleration Notice”), which would (i) accelerate the payment of all unpaid principal and accrued and unpaid interest (including default interest (if any)) on the Notes Payable, and (ii) require the Company to pay an amount equal to the sum of all of the amounts described in the preceding clause (i) in same day funds on the payment date specified in the notice, provided such date must be at least two (2) business days following the date on which the notice is delivered to the Company. If such an Acceleration Notice was sent to the Company, our inability to repay or refinance the Notes Payable would adversely affect our liquidity, business and financial performance and our ability to continue as a going concern could be further impacted. As of June 30, 2010, the Company is also in technical default of certain financial covenants under the Securities Purchase Agreement relating to the Companys tangible net worth requirements and minimum net capital requirements. The Company remains in technical default with respect to the Notes Payable and, although the Company continues to work with the note holders to obtain a formal waiver for the default of the covenants, at this time the Company has not obtained such waiver. We have incurred losses and could incur continued losses and negative cash flow in the near term; our financial statements are subject to going concern qualifications from our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms that performed our audits. 10 We have incurred recurring operating losses and negative operating cash flows for four consecutive years and expect to continue to incur net losses in the near term and generate negative cash flow until we can produce consistent sufficient revenues to cover our costs through the sale of our products. We incurred a net loss attributable to common stockholders of approximately $5,535,000 and negative operating cash flows of approximately $132,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. At June 30, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $648,000, a working capital deficit of approximately $9,724,000, primarily attributable to the amended Notes Payable in the amount of $7,805,000 which were due on November 15, 2009, the Convertible Note Payable in the amount of $3,642,000 (stated principal amount of $4,500,000 due in February 2011) and an accumulated deficit of approximately $49,900,000. These factors raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We may continue to generate net losses for the foreseeable future and cannot assure when we will achieve profitability. In order for us to remain a going concern, we will need to replace, refinance or extend our existing financing to continue our operations and to meet our cash flow needs. In view of our financial situation and current market and economic conditions, we do not know if additional financing will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Moreover, if we raise additional capital through borrowing or other debt financing, we would incur substantial interest expense. Sales of additional equity securities, including upon the exercise of convertible securities, will dilute on a pro rata basis the percentage ownership of all holders of common stock. Any inability to replace or extend our existing financing will materially adversely affect us, including possibly requiring us to significantly further curtail, sell or cease business operations altogether. Our revenue would decline significantly if we lose one or more of our most significant customers, which could have a significant adverse impact on us. A significant portion of our revenues are concentrated among three customers, Herbalife International of America, Inc., Costco Wholesale, Inc. and Sam’s Club. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, a significant portion of our net sales were concentrated among two of these customers, Herbalife International of America, Inc., and Costco Wholesale, Inc. and represented 77% of total net sales. For the year ended June 30, 2009, a significant portion of our net sales were concentrated among these three customers and represented 81% of total net sales. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, our net sales to Sam’s Club were less than 10% of our total net sales. The loss of any of these customers could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Complying with new and existing government regulation, both in the U.S. and abroad, could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our financial results. The processing, formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by several U.S. federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Department of Agriculture and the EPA, as well as various state, local and international laws and agencies of the localities in which our products are sold. Government regulations may prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of our products. Some agencies, such as the FDA or state agencies, could require us to remove a particular product from the market, delay or prevent the import of raw materials for the manufacture of our products, or otherwise disrupt the marketing of our products. Any such government actions would result in additional costs to us, in cluding lost revenues from any additional products that we are required to remove from the market, which additional costs could be material. Any such government actions also could lead to liability, substantial costs and reduced growth prospects. Moreover, there can be no assurance that new laws or regulations imposing more stringent regulatory requirements on the dietary supplement industry will not be enacted or issued. In addition, complying with adverse event reporting requirements imposes additional costs on us, which costs could become significant in the event more demanding reporting requirements are put into place. Additional or more stringent regulations of dietary supplements and other products have been considered from time to time. These developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products that cannot be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, adverse event reporting or other new requirements. These developments also could increase our costs significantly. For example, the FDA issued rules which became effective in 2008 that imposed substantial new regulatory requirements for dietary supplements, including GMPs. Congress also passed legislation requiring adverse event reporting and related record keeping which imposed additional costs on us. See Item 1. "Business—Government Regulation" for additional information. 11 We may be exposed to legal proceedings initiated by regulators or third parties either in the United States or abroad which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating income. In the United States and abroad, non-compliance with relevant legislation can result in regulators bringing administrative or, in some cases, criminal proceedings. As manufacturers of nutraceutical products, our products are regulated by various governments and it is common for regulators to prosecute retailers and manufacturers for non-compliance with legislation governing foodstuffs and medicines. Failures by us or our subsidiaries to comply with applicable legislation could occur from time to time and prosecution for any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, we are subject, from time to time, to claims by third parties under various legal theories. The defense of such claims, or any adverse outcome relating to any such claims, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and cash flows. See Item 1. "Business—Government Regulation," for additional information and Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We depend on our senior management, the loss of whom would have an adverse effect on us. We presently are dependent upon the executive abilities of our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, E. Gerald Kay, and our other executive officers. Our business and operations to date chiefly have been implemented under the direction of these individuals, who presently are, and in the future will be, responsible for the implementation of our anticipated plans and programs. The loss or unavailability of the services of one or more of our principal executives would have an adverse effect on us. We may encounter difficulty in our ability to recruit and ultimately hire any replacement or additional executive officers having similar background, experience and qualifications as those of our current executive officers. There is no assurance that we will remain listed on an active trading market. Our common stock is currently trading on the OTC Bulletin Board. From February 27, 2009 through September 22, 2009, our common stock was trading in the Pink Sheets. Prior to February 27, 2009, our common stock was listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, and there can be no assurance that we will, in the future, be able to meet all the requirements for reinstatement on that exchange. The delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market has, and may in the future continue to adversely affect the liquidity and trading of our common stock. We have entered into several transactions with entities controlled by some of our officers and directors, which could pose a conflict of interest. We have entered into several agreements and arrangements described in our previous as well as this current SEC public filing and to be described in our proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders, including the lease of real property from Vitamin Realty Associates, L.L.C., the sale of our financial debt securities, and issuance of our common stock, which involved transactions with entities significantly owned by members of the Kay family and other of our significant shareholders and/or executive officers, who collectively own a majority of our shares of common stock. Although we believe that these transactions were advantageous to us and were on terms no less favorable to us than could have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties, transactions with related parties can potentially pose a conflict of intere st. 12 Our Executive Officers and Directors have majority voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interest of other stockholders, but in their own interest. Our Executive Officers and Directors beneficially own approximately 63% of our outstanding shares. If these stockholders act together, they would be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs since significant corporate transactions require stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders. We have a staggered Board of Directors, which could impede an attempt to acquire the Company or remove our management. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered term of three years. This division of our Board of Directors could have the effect of impeding an attempt to take over our company or change or remove management, since only one class will be elected annually. Thus, only approximately one-third of the existing Board of Directors could be replaced at any election of directors. Our product liability insurance may be insufficient to cover possible claims against us. Our company, like other manufacturers, wholesalers and distributors of vitamin and nutritional supplement products, faces an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if, among other things, the use or ingestion of our products, result in sickness or injury. We currently maintain a product liability insurance policy that provides a total of $5.0 million of coverage per occurrence and $5.0 million of coverage in the aggregate. However, there can be no assurance that existing or future insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover any possible product liability risks or that such insurance will continue to be available to us on economically feasible terms. Our nutraceutical products are manufactured using various raw materials consisting of vitamins, minerals, herbs, fruit extracts and other ingredients that we regard as safe when taken as recommended by us and that various scientific studies have suggested may provide health benefits. We could be adversely affected if any our products or any similar products distributed by other companies should prove or be asserted to be harmful to consumers or should scientific studies provide unfavorable findings regarding the effectiveness of our products. We may not be able to obtain raw materials used in certain of our manufactured products. The principal raw materials used in the manufacturing process in the Company’s nutraceutical business are natural and synthetic vitamins, minerals, herbs, related nutritional supplements, gelatin capsules, coating materials, fruit extracts, fruit juices and the necessary components for packaging the finished products. The raw materials are available from numerous sources within the United States and abroad. The gelatin capsules, coating materials and packaging materials are similarly widely available. We generally purchase our raw materials, on a purchase order basis, without long-term commitments. Our principal suppliers are Creative Flavor Concepts, Inc., Triarco Industries, Inc., and DSM Nutritional Products, Inc. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our major suppliers, we may not be able to find alternate sourcing of our raw materials or at the same pricing that we receive from our current suppliers and/or quickly enough to make timely shipments to our customers. These factors could decrease our sales and/or increase our cost of sales. Current economic conditions may cause a decline in business and consumer spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our operating results are impacted by the health of the North American economies. Our business and financial performance, including collection of our accounts receivable, recoverability of assets including investments, may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions, such as a reduction in the availability of credit, financial market volatility, recession, etc. Additionally, we may experience difficulties in scaling our operations to react to economic pressures in the U.S. 13 We incur significant professional service fees and other control costs that impact our financial condition. As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Some of our competitors are privately owned so their accounting and control costs can be a competitive disadvantage for us. Should our sales decline or if we are unsuccessful at increasing prices to cover higher expenditures for internal controls, audits, consultants and legal, our costs associated with regulatory compliance will rise as a percentage of sales. Other issues and uncertainties may include: · New accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting policies; and · Legislation or other governmental action that detrimentally impacts our expenses or reduces sales by adversely affecting our customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 