Risk Factors We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our business and general business, economic, financing, legal and other factors or conditions that may affect us. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those referred to under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the following: We are subject to intense industry competition The vacation ownership industry is highly competitive. Among the many issues affecting all companies in this industry include competition from a broad range of lodging, hospitality and entertainment companies, changes in consumer behavior and the cost, ease and attractiveness of domestic and international travel as well as seasonality. We compete with both branded and non-branded hospitality and lodging companies, as well as other established vacation ownership companies. Although major lodging and hospitality companies such as Marriott, Disney, Hilton and Starwood have established vacation ownership operations in the past decade, the industry remains largely unbranded and highly fragmented. We believe that the majority of the vacation ownership resorts are owned and operated by smaller, regional companies. Unfavorable general economic and industry conditions may affect our business and could decrease the demand for vacation ownership units, impair our ability to collect our mortgages and contracts receivable and increase our costs Our business has been adversely affected in recent years by unfavorable general economic and industry conditions, including the effects of weak domestic and world economies, rising unemployment and job insecurity, increased terrorist threats and security in the United States, instability in the airline industry and geopolitical conflict in the Middle East, North Korea and other areas. Any additional downturn in economic conditions or any price increases related to the travel and tourism industry, such as higher airfares or increased gasoline prices, could depress discretionary consumer spending and have a material adverse effect on our business. Any such economic conditions, including recession, may also adversely affect the future availability of attractive financing rates for us or for our customers and may materially adversely affect our business. Furthermore, changes in general economic conditions may adversely affect our ability to collect our loans to Vacation Interest buyers. Because our operations are conducted solely within the vacation ownership industry, any adverse changes affecting the industry, such as an oversupply of vacation ownership units, a reduction in demand for such units, changes in travel and vacation patterns, changes in governmental regulation of the industry, increases in construction costs or taxes and negative publicity for the industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 Table of Contents We will continue to be subject to extensive government regulation, which may result in additional costs Our marketing and sales of Vacation Interests are subject to extensive and ever-changing regulations by the federal and state governments and foreign jurisdictions in which our resort properties are located and in which Vacation Interests are marketed and sold. On the United States federal level, the Federal Trade Commission has taken the most active regulatory role through the Federal Trade Commission Act, which generally prohibits unfair or deceptive acts or competition in interstate commerce. Other significant federal legislation to which we are or may be subject includes the Truth-In-Lending Act and Regulation Z, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B, the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Americans With Disabilities Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Deceptive Mail Prevention and Enforcement Act, the Civil Rights Acts of 1964 and 1968, the U.S. Treasury department’s Office of Foreign Asset Control Compliance Program, the U.S. Patriot Act Section 326, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and federal and state securities laws. Federal legislation has been passed that amended the Telemarketing Sales Rule, regulated by the Federal Trade Commission, to include provisions for a nationwide telemarketing do-not-call registry. Generally, we are prohibited from calling anyone on that registry. We are required to pay a fee to access the registry on a quarterly basis as required by the rules. Enforcement of the federal do-not-call provisions began in the fall of 2003, and the rule provides for fines of up to $11,000 per violation. This legislation may restrict our ability to market effectively our services to new customers. Furthermore, compliance with the new legislation may prove difficult and we may incur penalties under this legislation for conducting our marketing activities. In addition, many states have adopted specific laws and regulations regarding the establishment of condominium and timeshare projects and the sale of vacation interest ownership programs. As an example, in most states we are required to deliver a disclosure statement, sometimes referred to as a public offering statement or public report, to all prospective purchasers of Vacation Interests, together with certain additional information concerning the terms of the purchase. Laws in most states generally grant the purchaser of a vacation interest the right to cancel a contract of purchase at any time within a period ranging from 3 to 10 calendar days following the later of the date the contract was signed or the date the purchaser received the last of the documents which we are required to provide to the purchaser. Most states have other laws that regulate other activities such as those relating to real estate licensure, exchange program registration, seller of travel licensure, anti-fraud laws, telemarketing and do-not-call laws, prize, gift and sweepstakes laws and labor laws. Any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our ability to succeed will be dependent upon our ability to continue to successfully implement our business plan, as to which no assurance can be given Our ability to execute our business plan must be considered in light of the inherent risks, expenses and difficulties typically encountered by companies, particularly companies with new and evolving business models. Such unique difficulties include obtaining widespread consumer acceptance for our system wide points-based vacation system, and the potential development of comparable vacation ownership products by competitors. We may not successfully integrate our acquisitions Our growth strategy may continue to include acquisitions. Our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to market and sell Vacation Interests at the acquired resorts, our ability to manage acquired resorts in a manner that results in customer satisfaction and our ability to integrate vacation club operations with Club Sunterra, as well as the need to achieve other back office efficiencies. There is no assurance that we will be successful with respect to any of these factors. During the start-up phase of sales at a newly acquired resort we could experience lower operating margins at that resort until its sales operation matures. The lower margins could negatively impact our cash flow. We cannot provide assurance that we will maintain or improve our operating margins at newly acquired resorts or that they will not reduce our overall operating margins. The potential liability for any failure to comply with environmental laws or for any currently unknown environmental problems could be significant Under various environmental laws and regulations, the owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on or in, or emanating from, such property, as well as related costs of investigation and associated damages. We are not aware of any environmental liability that could have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations, nor have we been notified by any governmental authority or any third party, and we are not otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance or other claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products in connection with any of our present or former properties. No assurance, however, can be given that we will remain in compliance with all environmental laws and regulations, or that the requirements of such laws and regulations will not change. 12 Table of Contents Losses from hurricanes and earthquakes in excess of insured limits, as well as uninsured losses, could be significant Some of our resorts are located in areas that are subject to hurricanes and tropical storms. We have suffered damages from hurricanes and tropical storms in the past and we may suffer damage from them in the future. Additionally, resorts may be subject to damage resulting from earthquakes and other natural disasters. We carry commercial liability insurance and all-risk property insurance with coverage for fires, floods, windstorms and earthquakes with additional coverage for business interruption arising from insured perils for resort locations that we manage and our corporate offices. However, there are certain types of losses, such as losses arising from acts of war, civil unrest and terrorism that are not generally insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose our capital invested in a resort, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the resort, and would continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. Any such loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, properties or operations. Changes in interest rates may increase our borrowing costs and otherwise adversely affect our business The interest rates applicable to borrowings under our senior finance facility are subject to change based on fluctuations in short-term interest rates. If these rates increase, our interest expense would increase and our results of operations would be adversely affected. Our business and our strategies for future growth are dependent on our ability to obtain additional debt financing to fund our operations and to access the securitization markets to expand our portfolio of mortgages and contracts receivable. Increases in interest rates, changes in the financial markets and other factors could increase our borrowing costs, prevent us from accessing the securitization markets and otherwise reduce our ability to obtain the funds required for our future operations. Our business and results of operations are also dependent on the ability of our customers to finance their purchase of Vacation Interests. Limitations on the availability of financing to our customers or increases in the cost of such financing could reduce our sales of Vacation Interests and adversely affect our operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our reported results of operations We receive a portion of our revenues from our European resorts, the operations of which are primarily conducted in euros and British pounds. Because our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the value of the euro and British pound against the U.S. dollar have had and will continue to have a significant effect on our reported financial results. A decline in the value of the euro or British pound against the U.S. dollar will tend to reduce our reported revenues and expenses, while an increase in the value of the euro or British pound will tend to increase our reported revenues and expenses. Variations in exchange rates can significantly affect the comparability of our financial results between financial periods. An increase in the delinquency rate of our portfolio of mortgages and contracts receivable could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations We provide financing to consumers for the purchase of Vacation Interests in North America and the Caribbean. We benefit by retaining a positive cash flow spread that results from the difference between our borrowing rate and the rate charged to our owner families. As of September 30, 2005, our mortgages and contracts receivable portfolio included approximately 46,100 active loans and contracts totaling approximately $343.2 million in outstanding originated principal and purchased pool carrying amounts. In Europe, we generally originate mortgages receivable for a third party financial institution and receive a commission based on the principal amount of eligible consumer loans we originate. A significant increase in the delinquency rate applicable to our portfolio of mortgages and contracts receivable could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. An increased level of delinquencies could result from changes in economic or market conditions, increases in interest rates, adverse employment conditions and other factors beyond our control. Increased delinquencies could also result from our inability to evaluate accurately the credit-worthiness of the customers to whom we extend financing. We derive a portion of our revenues through contracts to manage Affiliated Resorts and the trusts holding vacation property real estate out of which we will convey Vacation Points to our customers and the expiration or termination of these management contracts could adversely affect our results of operations We are a party to management contracts under which we receive fees for providing management services to certain Affiliated Resorts. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, we earned management fees of $30.4 million, representing approximately 7.2% of our total consolidated revenues for this period. Our management contracts generally have three-year terms, except in Europe where the contracts generally run for the life of the association, and provide for early termination rights in certain circumstances. If we fail to renew a significant number of our management contracts or the contracts are otherwise terminated, we will no longer be entitled to receive management fees under these contracts and our results of operations could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to attract, retain and motivate necessary management and other skilled personnel, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations We will face intense competition for and may not be able to attract, motivate and retain personnel with the skills and experience needed to successfully manage our business and operations and successfully implement our business plan. Our inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary executive, sales, finance, technical, marketing, information systems and other personnel, or the loss of the services of any member of our senior management team, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to various restrictions under our senior finance facility which limit our ability to incur debt Our senior finance facility contains various restrictions and limitations that may affect our business and affairs. These include restrictions and limitations relating to our ability to incur indebtedness and other obligations, to make investments and acquisitions and to pay dividends. Our senior finance facility also requires that we maintain certain financial ratios and comply with other financial covenants. Our failure to comply with any of these provisions, or to pay our obligations under our senior finance facility or other loan agreements, could result in foreclosure by the lenders of their security interests in certain of our assets and could otherwise have a material adverse effect. Our continued liquidity depends on our ability to borrow against our notes receivable and inventory In North America, we offer financing of up to 90% of the purchase price to purchasers of Vacation Interests. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, approximately 14.6% of North American Vacation Interest revenue required no financing. Of the remaining 85.4%, we financed approximately 70.3% and the remaining 29.7% down payment was either paid for in cash or by applying existing equity from another Vacation Interest. However, we incur selling, marketing and administrative cash expenditures prior to and concurrent with the sale. Accordingly, our ability to borrow against the notes receivable we receive from our customers is a critical factor in our continued liquidity. As of September 30, 2005, our borrowings secured by mortgages and contracts receivable under our senior finance facility were $164.7 million and the borrowings secured by Vacation Interests were $32.7 million. If this facility was to terminate or expire and we were unable to replace it with a comparable facility, our liquidity and cash flow would be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to continue to access the securitization markets or otherwise raise additional capital in the future and our inability to do so could have an adverse effect on our business In the past, we securitized a substantial portion of the mortgages and contracts receivable we generated by financing the purchase of Vacation Interests by our customers. On September 30, 2004 we completed a $151.7 million private offering and sale of vacation ownership receivable-backed notes collateralized by $171.4 million (including $17.0 million in aggregate principal of vacation ownership receivables sold during the ninety day period commencing September 30, 2004) in aggregate principal of vacation ownership receivables in an on-balance sheet securitization. However, there can be no assurance regarding our ability to continue to do so in the future. If we are unable to access the securitization markets in the future, we may be required to obtain additional debt or equity financing to finance our operations. We cannot ensure that this additional financing will be available or, if it is available, that it can be obtained on terms and conditions we will deem acceptable. Any additional financing derived from the sale of equity securities, including convertible debt securities, may result in significant dilution to our stockholders. An active and liquid trading market for our common stock may not continue and our common stock price may experience volatility Our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq National Market on January 5, 2004, but we cannot assure that an active trading market for our common stock will continue in the future. If an active and liquid trading market does not continue, our stock price may be adversely affected and investors may have difficulty in trading their shares. In addition, the market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including variations in our annual or quarterly financial results or those of our competitors, changes by financial analysts in their estimates, if any, of our future earnings, unfavorable publicity or conditions in the economy in general or in the travel, vacation ownership and leisure industries in particular. The stock market also has, from time to time, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies with publicly traded securities. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 14 Table of Contents Future issuances of our shares could adversely affect our stock price Future issuances of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The issuance of shares of our common stock as a result of the conversion of the Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes issued on March 29, 2004 as well as the stock options and warrants outstanding may significantly increase the total number of shares outstanding. Resale of these shares, or the perception that resale could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, covenants in certain debt instruments to which we are a party restrict our ability to pay dividends and make certain other payments. In particular, our senior finance facility prohibits the payment of dividends and limits our ability to make other distributions to stockholders. Certain institutional investors may only invest in dividend-paying equity securities or may operate under other restrictions that may prohibit or limit their ability to invest in our common stock. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions under Maryland law and our charter and bylaws that could delay or prevent a change in control and adversely affect the price of our common stock Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Sunterra. These provisions may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Provisions in our charter and bylaws that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control include: • limits on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • the right of our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock as shares of preferred stock and to fix the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, qualifications, dividends and terms or conditions of redemption of those shares. We are subject to the Subtitle 6 of the Maryland General Corporation Law, which prohibits “business combinations” for a period of five years with persons owning 10% or more of the voting shares of a corporation’s outstanding stock, unless the combination is approved by the board of directors prior to the person acquiring 10% or more of the stock or is approved by an extraordinary stockholder vote. We are also subject to Subtitle 7 of the Maryland General Corporation Law, which limits the voting rights of “control shares” acquired in a “controlled share acquisition” except to the extent approved by extraordinary stockholder vote. Subtitle 8 of Maryland General Corporation Law provides that a Maryland corporation that is subject to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that has at least three outside directors (who are not affiliated with any potential acquirer of the company) under certain circumstances may elect by resolution of its board of directors or by amendment of its charter or bylaws to be subject to statutory corporate governance provisions that may be inconsistent with the corporation’s charter and bylaws. Under these provisions, a board of directors may divide itself into three separate classes without the vote of stockholders so that only one-third of the directors are elected each year. Directors serving on a board of directors classified in this manner may not be removed from office without cause and the classified board arrangement may not be altered by amendment to the charter of the corporation. Further, the board of directors may, by electing to be covered by the applicable statutory provisions and notwithstanding the corporation’s charter or bylaws: • provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only at the request of stockholders entitled to cast a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at a meeting of stockholders; • reserve for itself the right to fix the number of directors constituting the board of directors; • provide that a director may be removed only by the vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors; and 15 Table of Contents • retain for itself sole authority to fill vacancies created by an increase in the size of the board or the death, removal or resignation of a director. In addition, a director elected to fill a vacancy under these provisions serves for the balance of the unexpired term rather than until the next annual meeting of stockholders. A board of directors may implement all or any of these provisions without amending the charter or bylaws and without stockholder approval. The Maryland General Corporation Law further provides that an act of a director relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of a corporation, including a decision by a director to implement the provisions of Subtitle 8, is not subject to a higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. Although a corporation may be prohibited by its charter or by resolution of its board of directors from electing any of the provisions of the statute, Sunterra has not adopted such a prohibition. If our board of directors chooses in the future to implement these provisions, it could discourage offers to acquire our common stock and could delay or prevent a change in control of Sunterra. Available Information We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The general public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. This site is located at www.sec.gov. Our Internet address is www.sunterra.com. On our Internet website, we provide a link to the SEC’s website where our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 can be viewed. Upon request, we will make available free of charge copies of the aforementioned reports, as well as copies of the charters of the three independent committees of our board of directors and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This information can be requested through our website or by written request to us at: Sunterra Corporation, Investor Relations Department, 3865 West Cheyenne Avenue, North Las Vegas, Nevada 89032. The information contained on our website, or on other websites linked to our website, is not part of this report. 