ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risk is an inherent part of Carver’s business and activities. The following is a summary of risk factors relevant to the Company’s operations which should be carefully reviewed. These risk factors do not necessarily appear in the order of importance. 34 Table of Contents The prolonged negative effect of the recession and weak economic recovery will adversely affect our financial performance The severe recession and weak economic recovery has resulted in continued uncertainty in the financial and credit markets in general. There is also continued concern about the possibility of another economic downturn. The Federal Reserve, in an attempt to stimulate the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and purchased mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. A prolonged weakness in the economy generally, and in the financial services industry in particular, could continue to negatively affect our operations by causing a deterioration of our loan portfolio and an increase in our provision for loan losses which would adversely affect our ability to originate loans. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial performance. Carver’s results of operations are affected by economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area. At March 31, 2010, a majority of the Bank’s lending portfolio was concentrated in the New York metropolitan area. As a result of this geographic concentration, Carver’s results of operations are largely dependent on economic conditions in this area. Decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans to its borrowers. Adverse changes in the economy caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Bank’s control may also have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely mortgage or business loan payments, which would have an adverse impact on earnings. Consequently, deterioration in economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, which could result in increased delinquencies, decreased interest income results as well as an adverse impact on loan loss experience with probable increased allowance for loan losses. Such deterioration also could adversely impact the demand for products and services, and, accordingly, further negatively affect results of operations. The Bank is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, both nationally and locally. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the ongoing economic recession, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. However, no assurance can be given that the original appraised values are reflective of current market conditions as the Bank has experienced declines in real estate values in all markets in which it lends. The Bank has experienced increases in loan delinquencies and charge-offs in fiscal 2010. The Bank’s non-performing loans, which are comprised primarily of construction and mortgage loans, increased $21.8 million to $47.6 million, or 7.10% of total loans, at March 31, 2010, from $25.7 million, or 4.01% of total loans, at March 31, 2009. The Bank’s net loan charge-offs totaled $2.9 million for fiscal 2010 compared to $0.5 million for fiscal 2009. The Bank’s provision for loan losses totaled $7.8 million for fiscal 2010 compared to $2.7 million for fiscal 2009. As a residential lender, Carver Federal is particularly vulnerable to the impact of a severe job loss recession. Significant increases in job losses and unemployment will have a negative impact on the financial condition of residential borrowers and their ability to remain current on their mortgage loans. A continuation or further deterioration in national and local economic conditions, including an accelerating pace of job losses, particularly in the New York metropolitan area, could have a material adverse impact on the quality of The Bank’s loan portfolio, which could result in further increases in loan delinquencies, causing a decrease in The Bank’s interest income as well as an adverse impact on The Bank’s loan loss experience, causing an increase in The Bank’s allowance for loan losses and related provision and a decrease in net income. Such deterioration could also adversely impact the demand for The Bank’s products and services, and, accordingly, The Bank’s results of operations. No assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in the Bank’s interest income or an adverse impact on loan losses. 35 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets, the real estate market and economic conditions generally Beginning in the latter half of 2007 and continuing into 2010, negative developments in the capital markets resulted in uncertainty and instability in the financial markets, and an economic downturn. The housing market declined, resulting in decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures. The credit performance of residential and commercial real estate, construction and land loans resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. The declines in the performance and value of mortgage assets encompassed all mortgage and real estate asset types, leveraged bank loans and nearly all other asset classes, including equity securities. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital or to merge with larger and stronger institutions. Some financial institutions have failed. Continued, and potentially increased, volatility, instability and weakness could affect our ability to sell investment securities and other financial assets, which in turn could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. This instability also could affect the prices at which we could make any such sales, which could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by some financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This tightening of credit has led to increased loan delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and a widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly, and access to deposits or borrowed funds has decreased for many institutions. It has also become more difficult to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Current conditions, including high unemployment, weak corporate performance, soft real estate markets, and the decline of home sales and property values, could negatively affect the volume of loan originations and prepayments, the value of the real estate securing our mortgage loans, and borrowers’ ability to repay loan obligations, all of which could adversely impact our earnings and financial condition. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced, and local governments and many companies are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. A worsening of current conditions would likely adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as those of our customers. As a result, we may experience increased foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. The soundness of other financial institutions could negatively affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover Carver’s actual loan losses. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income. In addition, the OTS periodically reviews the allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. A material increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by the regulatory authorities would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents Carver’s concentration in multifamily loans, commercial real estate loans, and construction loans could, in a deteriorating economic climate, expose the Company to increased lending risks and related loan losses Carver’s current business strategy is to decrease the Bank’s exposure to non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans and construction loans. Execution of this strategy will involve the Company temporarily ceasing new originations of these types of loan products, which often have a higher interest rate than other types of loans, including residential lending. As a result, our ability to generate sufficient net interest margin is lessened which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rate environment may negatively affect Carver’s net income, mortgage loan originations and valuation of available-for-sale securities. The Company’s earnings depend largely on the relationship between the yield on interest-earning assets, primarily mortgage, construction and business loans and mortgage-backed securities, and the cost of deposits and borrowings. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence market interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of non-performing assets. Fluctuations in market interest rates affect customer demand for products and services. Carver is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that its interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than its interest-earning assets. In addition, the actual amount of time before mortgage, construction and business loans and mortgage-backed securities are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage prepayment rates and prevailing market interest rates. Mortgage prepayment rates will vary due to a number of factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, demographic variables and the ability to assume the underlying mortgages. However, the major factors affecting prepayment rates are prevailing interest rates, related loan refinancing opportunities and competition. The Company’s objective is to fund its liquidity needs primarily through lower costing deposit growth. However, from time to time Carver Federal borrows from the FHLB-NY. More recently, the cost of deposits and borrowings have become significantly higher with the rising interest rate environment, which has negatively impacted net interest income. Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate. The Federal Open Market Committee, or FOMC, reduced the federal funds rate by 100 basis points during the second half of 2007 and then an additional 400+ basis points during 2008 bringing the target rate to 0.00% to 0.25%. The Bank cannot predict future FOMC or FRB actions or other factors that will cause rates to change. No assurance can be given that further changes in interest rates or further increases in mortgage loan prepayments will not have a negative impact on net interest income, net interest rate spread or net interest margin. The estimated fair value of the Company’s available-for-sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on changes in interest rates. Carver Federal’s securities portfolio is comprised primarily of adjustable rate securities. There has been an improvement in valuation of the Bank’s available for sale securities because interest rates have declined in fiscal 2010. Strong competition within the Bank’s market areas could adversely affect profits and slow growth The New York metropolitan area has a high density of financial institutions, of which many are significantly larger than Carver Federal and with greater financial resources. Additionally, various large out-of-state financial institutions may continue to enter the New York metropolitan area market. All are considered competitors to varying degrees. Carver Federal faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Competition for loans, both locally and in the aggregate, comes principally from mortgage banking companies, commercial banks, savings banks and savings and loan associations. Most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. The Bank also faces competition for deposits from money market mutual funds and other corporate and government securities funds as well as from other financial intermediaries such as brokerage firms and insurance companies. Market area competition is a factor in pricing the Bank’s loans and deposits, which could reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more challenging to effectively grow loan and deposit balances. The Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market areas. 37 Table of Contents The Bank operates in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of business activities. Carver Federal is subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OTS, the FDIC, and, to a lesser extent, by the New York State Banking Department. As a result, the Bank is limited in the manner in which the Bank conducts its business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and depositors, and not to benefit the Holding Company’s stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. In addition, the Bank must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws. On October 4, 2006, the OTS and other federal bank regulatory authorities published the Interagency Guidance on Nontraditional Mortgage Product Risk, or the Guidance. In general, the Guidance applies to all residential mortgage loan products that allow borrowers to defer repayment of principal or interest. The Guidance describes sound practices for managing risk, as well as marketing, originating and servicing nontraditional mortgage products, which include, among other things, interest-only loans. The Guidance sets forth supervisory expectations with respect to loan terms and underwriting standards, portfolio and risk management practices and consumer protection. For example, the Guidance indicates that originating interest-only loans with reduced documentation is considered a layering of risk and that institutions are expected to demonstrate mitigating factors to support their underwriting decision and the borrower’s repayment capacity. Specifically, the Guidance indicates that a lender may accept a borrower’s statement as to the borrower’s income without obtaining verification only if there are mitigating factors that clearly minimize the need for direct verification of repayment capacity and that, for many borrowers, institutions should be able to readily document income. The Bank has evaluated the Guidance for compliance, risk management practices and underwriting guidelines as they relate to originations and purchases of the subject loans, or practices relating to communications with consumers. The Guidance has no impact on the Company’s loan origination and purchase volumes or the Company’s underwriting procedures currently or in future periods. Controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which may result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s business Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on Carver’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy may have a material effect on results of operations Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is in the Company’s control. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws, including with respect to federal and state taxation, may cause results of operations to differ materially. In addition, cost of compliance could adversely affect Carver’s ability to operate profitably. Further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for Carver Federal, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System. A material change in any of these conditions could have a material impact on Carver Federal, and therefore on the Company’s results of operations. 38 Table of Contents On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed the EESA into law in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets. Pursuant to the EESA, the US Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of troubled assets (including mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments) from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the US Treasury, the FRB and the FDIC issued a joint statement announcing additional steps aimed at stabilizing the financial markets. First, the US Treasury announced the TARP CPP, a $250 billion voluntary capital purchase program available to qualifying financial institutions that sell preferred shares to the US Treasury (to be funded from the $700 billion authorized for troubled asset purchases.) Second, the FDIC announced that its Board of Directors, under the authority to prevent “systemic risk” in the U.S. banking system, approved the TLGP, which is intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by permitting the FDIC to (1) guarantee certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by participating institutions under the Debt Guarantee Program and (2) fully insure non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts held at participating FDIC-insured institutions, regardless of dollar amount, under the Transaction Account Guarantee Program. Third, to further increase access to funding for businesses in all sectors of the economy, the FRB announced further details of its Commercial Paper Funding Facility, or CPFF, which provides a broad backstop for the commercial paper market. The Company currently participates in the TARP CPP. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the foregoing or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of any such program or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions and the national and regional economy is expected to materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit and the trading price of the Holding Company’s common stock. Pursuant to Carver’s participation in the TARP CPP, the Company entered into certain agreements with the Treasury that limit the Company’s activities in a number of ways and that give the Treasury the ability to impose additional restrictions as it determines. For example, the Company’s ability to declare or pay dividends on any of Carver’s shares is restricted. Specifically, the Company is not able to declare dividends payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if it is in arrears on the dividends on the senior preferred shares issued to the Treasury. Further, the Company is not permitted to increase dividends on common stock without the Treasury’s approval until the third anniversary of the investment unless the senior preferred stock issued to the Treasury has been redeemed or transferred. In addition, the Company’s ability to repurchase shares of common stock is prohibited without the Treasury’s prior consent until the third anniversary of the investment or until the senior preferred stock issued to the Treasury has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if the Company is in arrears on the dividends on the senior preferred shares issued to the Treasury. In addition, the Company must also adopt the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds equity issued under this program. These standards would generally apply to the Company’s CEO, CFO and the three next most highly compensated officers (“Senior Executive”). The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for Senior Executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required claw back of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a Senior Executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to Senior Executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each Senior Executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation would likely increase slightly the overall cost of the Company’s compensation programs. Management expects to face increased regulation and supervision of the banking industry as a result of the existing financial crisis, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed on the Company to the extent that it participates in any of the programs established or to be established by the Treasury or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase the Company’s costs and limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities. 39 Table of Contents Future Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments will hurt our earnings In May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted a final rule imposing a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to 5 basis points of total assets minus Tier 1 Capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $0.4 Million during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. The assessment was collected on September 30, 2009 and was recorded against earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. The special assessment negatively impacted the Company’s earnings for the year ended March 31, 2010, as compared to the year ended March 31, 2009, as a result of this special assessment. In November 2009, the FDIC issued a rule that required all insured depository institutions, with limited exceptions, to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The FDIC also adopted a uniform three-basis point increase in assessment rates effective on January 1, 2011. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will likely negatively impact the Company’s earnings. The Company is subject to certain risks with respect to liquidity “Liquidity” refers to the Company’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support operations and to fulfill obligations, including commitments to originate loans, to repay wholesale borrowings, and to satisfy the withdrawal of deposits by customers. The Company’s primary sources of liquidity are the cash flows generated through the repayment of loans and securities, cash flows from the sale of loans and securities, deposits gathered organically through the Bank’s branch network, from socially motivated depositors, city and state agencies and deposit brokers; and borrowed funds, primarily in the form of wholesale borrowings from the FHLB-NY. In addition, and depending on current market conditions, the Company has the ability to access the capital markets from time to time. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities are strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived; local and national economic conditions; and competition for deposits and loans in the markets the Bank serves. Furthermore, changes to the FHLB-NY’s underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings may limit or restrict the Bank’s ability to borrow, and could therefore have a significant adverse impact on liquidity. A decline in available funding could adversely impact the Bank’s ability to originate loans, invest in securities, and meet expenses, or to fulfill such obligations as repaying borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends or lend funds to the Holding Company is subject to regulatory limitations which may prevent the Holding Company from making future dividend payments or principal and interest payments on its debt obligation Carver is a unitary savings and loan association holding company regulated by the OTS and almost all of its operating assets are owned by Carver Federal. Carver relies primarily on dividends from the Bank to pay cash dividends to its stockholders, to engage in share repurchase programs and to pay principal and interest on its trust preferred debt obligation. The OTS regulates all capital distributions by the Bank to the Company, including dividend payments. As the subsidiary of a savings and loan association holding company, Carver Federal must file a notice or an application (depending on the proposed dividend amount) with the OTS prior to each capital distribution. The OTS will disallow any proposed dividend that would result in failure to meet the OTS’ minimum capital requirements. Based on Carver Federal’s current financial condition, it is not expected that this provision will have any impact on the Company’s receipt of dividends from the Bank although it is possible. Payment of dividends by Carver Federal also may be restricted at any time, at the discretion of the OTS, if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Pursuant to Carver’s participation in the TARP CPP, the Company entered into certain agreements with the Treasury that limit the Company’s activities in a number of ways and that give the Treasury the ability to impose additional restrictions as it determines. For example, the Company’s ability to declare or pay dividends on any of the Holding Company’s shares is restricted. Specifically, the Company is not able to declare dividends payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if it is in arrears on the dividends on the senior preferred shares issued to the Treasury. Further, the Company is not permitted to increase dividends on common stock without the Treasury’s approval until the third anniversary of the investment unless the senior preferred stock issued to the Treasury has been redeemed or transferred. In addition, the Company’s ability to repurchase shares of common stock is prohibited without the Treasury’s prior consent until the third anniversary of the investment or until the senior preferred stock issued to the Treasury has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if the Company is in arrears on the dividends on the senior preferred shares issued to the Treasury. 40 Table of Contents Carver may not be able to utilize its income tax benefits The Company’s ability to utilize the deferred tax asset generated by New Markets Tax Credit income tax benefits as well as other deferred tax assets depends on its ability to meet the NMTC compliance requirements and its ability to generate sufficient taxable income from operations to generate taxable income in the future. Since the Bank has not generated sufficient taxable income to utilize tax credits as they were earned, a deferred tax asset has been recorded in the Company’s financial statements. For additional information regarding Carver’s NMTC, refer to Item 7, “New Markets Tax Credit Award.” The future recognition of Carver’s deferred tax asset is highly dependent upon Carver’s ability to generate sufficient taxable income. A valuation allowance is required to be maintained for any deferred tax assets that we estimate are more likely than not to be unrealizable, based on available evidence at the time the estimate is made. In assessing Carver’s need for a valuation allowance, we rely upon estimates of future taxable income. Although we use the best available information to estimate future taxable income, underlying estimates and assumptions can change over time as a result of unanticipated events or circumstances influencing our projections. Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be affected by changes to tax laws, statutory tax rates, and future taxable income levels. In the event that we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or a portion of our net deferred tax assets in the future, we would reduce such amounts through a charge to income tax expense in the period in which that determination was made. Conversely, if we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net carrying amounts, we would decrease the recorded valuation allowance through a decrease in income tax expense in the period in which that determination was made. Carver faces system failure risks and security risks. The computer systems and network infrastructure the Company and its third party service providers use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Fire, power loss or other failures may effect Carver’s computer equipment and other technology, or that of the Company’s third party service providers. Also, the Company’s computer systems and network infrastructure could be damaged by “hacking” and “identity theft” which could adversely affect the results of Carver’s operations, or that of the Company’s third party service providers. The Company’s business could suffer if it fails to retain skilled people The Company’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain key employees reflecting current market opportunities and challenges. Competition for the best people is intense, and the Company’s size and limited resources may present additional challenges in being able to retain the best possible employees, which could adversely affect the results of operations. A natural disaster could harm Carver’s business. Natural disasters could harm the Company’s operations directly through interference with communications, as well as through the destruction of facilities and financial information systems. Such disasters may also have an impact on collateral underlying the Bank’s loans. The Company may face higher insurance costs in the event of such disasters. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 41 Table of Contents 