Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with all of the other information included in this document before deciding to invest in our securities. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to continue as a “going concern” is uncertain. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the assumption that we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. The independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, includes an explanatory paragraph that states we have suffered recurring losses from operations and have a working capital deficiency that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Beginning in the third quarter of 2001 and continuing through December 31, 2005, we incurred combined net losses of $149.4 million. For the years ended December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, we reported net losses of approximately $21.1 million and $12.9 million, respectively, and cash flows used by operations of $13.6 million and $17.4 million, respectively. We anticipate that our operating losses will continue in fiscal year 2006. Management has taken actions to reduce operating expenses and capital expenditures, including restructuring operations to more closely align operating costs with net sales. Our ability to meet cash and future liquidity requirements is dependent on our ability to raise additional capital, successfully negotiate extended payment terms with certain creditors, attain our business objectives, maintain tight controls over spending and release new products and product upgrades on a timely basis. If our cash requirements cannot be satisfied from cash flows from operations and the infusion of additional capital, we may be forced to implement further expense reduction measures, including, but not limited to, workforce reductions, the sale of assets, the consolidation of operations or the delay, cancellation or reduction of certain product development, marketing, licensing, or other operational programs. We are unable to meet our current obligations. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $499,000 of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and a working capital deficit of approximately $48.8 million. In addition to the unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, our current assets included approximately $2.7 million in net accounts receivable and approximately $4.8 million in net inventory. Our current liabilities included approximately $4.2 million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, $5.9 million in accrued interest and approximately $46.9 million in current notes payable. We are currently unable to pay our liabilities as they become due. We need to raise additional capital. From February 2003 through September 17, 2004, we borrowed approximately $27.0 million from Optel and its affiliates. In September 2004, we restructured this debt and issued Optel a secured convertible promissory note having the following terms: • Interest rate of 10% per annum; • Accrued and unpaid interest as of September 16, 2004, plus interest that accrued on the $27.0 million outstanding principal that became due and payable on September 16, 2005, is now currently due and payable on demand at any time; • Interest that accrues from September 17, 2005, to December 31, 2005, is now currently due and payable on demand at any time; • $27.0 million of principal is now currently due and payable on demand at any time; and, • Secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Company. On May 11, 2004, Jabil and the Company entered into a settlement agreement (the “2004 Settlement”), which resolved and settled certain and all previous disputes between Jabil and the Company. During 2004, the Company made scheduled principal payments under the Jabil Notes, including the initial payments of approximately $1.8 million. On August 23, 2004, Optel entered into a guarantee agreement with Jabil Circuit, Inc., or Jabil, pursuant to which Optel guaranteed certain obligations of the Company owing to Jabil relating to purchase orders for production material issued by the Company to Jabil after June 30, 2004. Optel’s maximum obligation under the guarantee agreement was $1.88 million. Prior to the completion of the guarantee agreement, the Company was required to prepay Jabil for all orders of production material. With the guarantee agreement in place, the Company was able to pay for production material purchased from Jabil upon receipt of that material. 10 Table of Contents On August 31, 2005, the Company entered into a final Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release (the “Settlement Agreement”) relating to the “2004 Settlement” that the Company and Jabil entered into effective May 11, 2004. In connection with the 2004 Settlement, the Company executed and delivered to Jabil a purchase order, a promissory note in the original principal amount of approximately $3.0 million, and a second promissory note in the original principal amount of approximately $2.2 million. In view of the fact that the Company’s current manufacturing needs have changed, Jabil and the Company have agreed to amicably settle all outstanding principal and interest financial obligations between them relating to the 2004 settlement. Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, Jabil returned to the Company approximately $810,000 in parts inventory and work-in-progress materials that had been purchased by the Company and warehoused at Jabil for Jabil’s use in the on-going manufacturing of the Company’s finished goods and the Company paid Jabil $1.9 million on August 31, 2005. The Company and Jabil exchanged mutual releases subject to specified exclusions and the Company obtained any remaining parts inventory and work-in-progress materials in Jabil’s possession on September 9, 2005. On December 2, 2004, Optel established an irrevocable standby letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.4 million on our behalf and naming Lightwave Drive LLC, our landlord, as beneficiary. The letter of credit expires in December 2006. The letter of credit replaces a previous letter of credit in the same amount, previously issued by us which had expired. The expired letter of credit had been secured by a restricted cash deposit of $1.4 million. From September 30, 2004, through December 31, 2005, we borrowed approximately an additional $19.8 million from Optel pursuant to the Short-Term Notes. Since January 1, 2006 we borrowed an additional $2.0 million from Optel pursuant to the Short-Term Notes. (See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes Payable, Line of Credit and Letter of Credit) The Short-Term Notes have the following terms: • Interest Rate of 10% per annum; • Approximately $19.8 million in principal plus accrued interest is now currently due and payable on demand at any time; • Approximately $2.0 million in principal plus accrued interest payable on demand at any time after March 31, 2006; and, • Secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Company. On December 31, 2005, Optel notified us that it was not demanding payment of the approximately $46.8 million that was then and is currently payable upon demand by Optel, but that it reserved its right to do so in the future. On February 10, 2005, at a special meeting of our stockholders, the conversion feature of the Secured Convertible Promissory Note was approved by our disinterested stockholders. Accordingly, all or any portion of such debt is convertible into our common stock at the option of Optel at any time. The conversion price is based upon the volume-weighted average trading price of our common stock during the five-day period preceding the date of any conversion. Further, as part of the conversion features approved by our disinterested stockholders, the Company is required to file a registration statement covering the offer and sale by Optel of the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion and to keep the registration statement effective until the date that is two years after the date that such registration statement is declared effective. On March 11, 2005, we issued 981,258 shares of common stock to Optel in connection with Optel’s conversion of $1.0 million of the indebtedness outstanding under the Secured Convertible Promissory Note. As of March 20, 2006, the aggregate outstanding principal and accrued interest under the Secured Convertible Promissory Note was approximately $32.2 million, and the applicable conversion price was approximately $0.43 per share. Accordingly, on March 20, 2006, Optel had the right to convert the Secured Convertible Promissory Note into an aggregate of 74,776,660 shares of common stock. Further, conversion by Optel of all or any portion of the Secured Convertible Promissory Note could significantly dilute the ownership interests of our other stockholders and give Optel and Dr. Zwan even greater control over the Company. If Optel converted all of the indebtedness evidenced by the Secured Convertible Promissory Note, including principal and accrued interest into shares of common stock on March 20, 2006, at an applicable conversion price of $0.43 per share, Optel and other entities controlled by the Company’s largest stockholder and current chairman of the board of directors, Dr. Bryan J. Zwan, would control, in the aggregate, approximately 80.2% of the then outstanding shares of common stock after giving effect to the conversion. On March 15, 2005, Optel established an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of $6.0 million on our behalf and naming MC Test Service, Inc. as beneficiary. MC Test Service, Inc. provides outsourced manufacturing services to us. With the letter of credit in place, MC Test Service, Inc. has extended to us regular payment terms to pay for purchased production material. On December 16, 2005, Optel renewed the letter of credit for the amount of $2.0 million and extended the expiration date to December 30, 2006. 11 Table of Contents All of the foregoing transactions with Optel were approved by the Company’s board of directors, upon the recommendation of the special committee of the board. The special committee is composed solely of independent directors. We have entered into discussions with Optel to restructure the Short-Term Notes and the Secured Convertible Promissory Note by extending the maturity date of such debt, to arrange for additional short-term working capital and to continue guarantees through letters of credit to secure vendor obligations. If we do not reach an agreement to restructure the Short-Term Notes and the Secured Convertible Promissory Note, continue its guarantees through letters of credit and obtain additional financing from Optel, we will be unable to meet our obligations to Optel and our other creditors, and in an attempt to collect payment, our creditors, including Optel, may seek legal remedies, including filing a petition for involuntary bankruptcy, or we may elect to seek relief by filing a voluntary bankruptcy petition. While we have been exploring alternative financing to raise additional funding, we have not identified a funding source other than Optel that would be willing to provide current or future financing. In the future, if we issue additional equity securities to raise funds, the ownership percentage of the existing stockholders would be diluted, and the new investors may demand rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. Additional debt incurred by us would be senior to equity with respect to the ability of the debt holders to make claims on our assets. In addition, the terms of any debt issued could impose restrictions on our operations. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy either short- or long-term capital requirements, we may be required to curtail our operations significantly or to seek funds through arrangements with strategic partners or other parties that may require us to relinquish material rights to certain of our products, technologies or potential markets, or we may be forced to seek protection under bankruptcy laws. We are dependent on contract manufacturers to produce our printed circuit assemblies and rely on sole and limited source suppliers which could adversely affect our operations. The Company’s NIC and NAA products are currently produced in Clearwater, Florida. The Company subcontracts the manufacture of computer systems boards, plastic molds and metal chassis and certain subassemblies and components for the NIC and NAA products. The Company performs final assembly and programs the products with our software. The Company implements strict quality control procedures throughout each stage of the manufacturing process and tests the boards and subassemblies at various stages in the process, including final test and qualification of the product. Effective as of January 31, 2005, we entered into a letter agreement with MC Test Service, Inc. of Melbourne, Florida, to provide our subcontract manufacturing services. In the future, any failure to maintain our agreements with MC Test Service or enter into a substitute manufacturing agreement in a timely fashion could interrupt our operations and adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products, book sales and fulfill customer orders. The Company’s OWM and OTS products are currently produced at both Noah Industries, Inc., an outsourced pilot production facility in Melbourne, Florida and in Billerica, Massachusetts, a company owned facility. The Company subcontracts the manufacture of computer systems boards, plastic molds and metal chassis and certain subassemblies and components for the OTS and OWM products. The Company performs final assembly and programs the products with our software. We currently utilize several key components in the manufacture of our products from sole-source or limited-source suppliers. Certain laser and laser amplifier components, power supplies, touch-screen sensors, single-board computers and SONET overhead terminators used in our NIC and the NAA products are sourced from a single or a limited number of suppliers. We purchase a filter, a controller board and an interface board from a single or limited number of suppliers for the NAA product. Certain oscillators, power supplies, single board computers, and other optical components are key components in the manufacture of our OTS products and are sourced from a single or limited number of supplies. We use detectors, switches and an imbedded operating system as key components in the manufacture of our OWM products that are sourced from a single or limited number of suppliers. We are currently attempting to qualify certain additional suppliers for certain of the sole-sourced components. The loss of a supplier for any of these key components could seriously disrupt our operations. We forecast product sales on a quarterly basis and order materials and components based on these forecasts. Lead times for materials and components that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, purchase terms and demand for a component at a given time. There may be excess or inadequate inventory of certain materials and components if actual orders vary significantly from forecasts. In the past, there have been industry-wide shortages in some of the optical components used in our products. If such shortages occur 12 Table of Contents again, suppliers may be forced to allocate available quantities among their customers and we may not be able to obtain components and material in a timely manner, if at all. These shortages could lead to delays in shipping our products to our customers, which could significantly harm our business. Additionally, if prices of these components increase significantly, our margins on our products will decrease. Our largest stockholder has substantial influence over us and could dilute the interests of our other stockholders as a result of his interests as our largest stockholder and principal creditor. As of March 20, 2006, Dr. Bryan J. Zwan, our chairman of the board, beneficially owned 13,420,008 shares of our common stock, which represented approximately 38.1% of our outstanding common stock as of that date. Of those shares, 920,000 shares, or approximately 2.6% of our outstanding common stock as of that date, were subject to forward sales agreements. In addition, all or any portion of the Secured Convertible Promissory Note held by Optel, an entity controlled by Dr. Zwan, is convertible into our common stock at the option of Optel at any time. The conversion price of the Secured Convertible Promissory Note is based upon the volume-weighted average trading price of our common stock during the five-day period preceding the date of any conversion (the “Applicable Conversion Price”). As of March 20, 2006, the aggregate outstanding principal and accrued interest under the Secured Convertible Promissory Note was approximately $32.2 million and the Applicable Conversion Price was approximately $0.43 per share. Accordingly, on March 20, 2006, Optel had the right to convert the Secured Convertible Promissory Note into an aggregate of 74,776,660 shares of our common stock. If Optel had fully converted the Secured Convertible Promissory Note into shares of common stock on March 20, 2006, Dr. Zwan would have been the beneficial owner of 88,196,669 shares of common stock as of such date, which would have represented approximately 80.2% of our outstanding common stock after giving effect to the conversion. Any such conversion of the Secured Convertible Promissory Note would substantially dilute the interests of existing stockholders of the Company. In addition, as the beneficial holder of a majority of the common stock of the Company, Dr. Zwan would have substantial control over matters to be determined by the stockholders of the Company, which control may be exercised in a manner adverse to the interests of other stockholders of the Company. In addition, as of March 20, 2006, we owed Optel Capital, LLC, approximately $48.8 million plus accrued interest, which debt is secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets, and Optel has entered into various other commercial and financial arrangements with us, our creditors and our vendors. Approximately $46.8 million of the amount we owe Optel is currently payable upon demand and approximately $2.0 million will become payable upon demand by March 31, 2006 (See “We need to raise additional capital” under the caption entitled Risk Factors). Should Optel demand payment upon the Short-Term Notes, the Company would not have the resources to satisfy its obligations to Optel, and Optel may seek legal remedies, including filing a petition for involuntary bankruptcy, or we may elect to seek relief by filing a voluntary bankruptcy petition. We experience fluctuations in our operating results. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and future quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly due to a variety of factors which are outside our control. Factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include the following: • fluctuations in capital expenditures and the uneven buying patterns by customers within the telecommunications industry; • pricing changes by our competitors; • the limited number of our major customers; • the product mix, volume, timing and number of orders received from our customers; • the long sales cycle for obtaining new orders; • the timing of introduction and market acceptance of new products; • our success in developing, introducing and shipping product enhancements and new products; • our ability to enter into long-term agreements or blanket purchase orders with customers; • our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole or limited source components for our products; 13 Table of Contents • our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our current and future products; • changes in costs of materials, labor and overhead; and • the financial condition of our customers. Our operating results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of future operating results, in part because our sales often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter in which they are received, which makes our sales vulnerable to short-term fluctuations. These factors have historically been and are expected to continue to be difficult to forecast. Any unfavorable changes in these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our net sales and operating results generally depend on the volume and timing of the orders we receive from customers and our ability to fulfill the orders received. Orders may be cancelled, modified or rescheduled after receipt. Most of our operating expenses are relatively fixed and cannot be reduced in response to decreases in net sales. The timing of orders and any subsequent cancellation, modification or rescheduling of orders have affected and will continue to affect our results of operations from quarter to quarter. The deferral of any large order from one quarter to another could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must obtain orders during each quarter for shipment in that quarter to achieve our net sales and profit objectives. There can be no assurance regarding the amount or timing of purchases by any customer in any future period, and business fluctuations affecting our customers have affected and will continue to affect our business. The initiatives we have undertaken to reduce costs may have long-term adverse effects on our business. Since 2001, we have undertaken a number of initiatives to reduce costs. These measures have included significant reductions in workforce, temporary executive salary reductions, and the outsourcing of manufacturing and production for our NIC and NAA product lines. There are several risks inherent in our efforts to transition to a reduced cost structure, including, but not limited to, the risk that we will not be able to sustain our cost structure at a level necessary to restore profitability, resulting in the need for further restructuring initiatives that would entail additional charges and the risk that our ability to effectively develop and market products and remain competitive in the industries in which we compete will be impaired. Our cost-cutting measures could have long-term effects on our business by reducing our pool of technical talent, decreasing or slowing improvements in our products, making it more difficult for us to respond to customers, limiting our ability to increase production quickly if the demand for our products increases, limiting our ability to maintain and update information systems and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. These circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in United States and worldwide economies and fluctuations in capital expenditures within the telecommunications industry could adversely affect us. Our products are mainly purchased and used by telecommunications customers. Our sales are affected by the following marketplace conditions: • fluctuations in the economic conditions in the United States and global markets that could result in decreased capital expenditures by telecommunication equipment manufacturers and equipment rental and leasing companies; • bankruptcies and decreased capital expenditures that could result in the telecommunications sector in the United States and global markets by competitive local exchange carriers, Internet service providers and enterprise network operator segments; and • changes in the implementation of bandwidth expansion strategies by the incumbent local exchange carriers. These marketplace conditions may contribute to quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the threat of terrorism and war may cause further disruptions to the economy, create further uncertainties and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. For the fiscal year December 31, 2005, net sales from international customers represented approximately 36% of our total net sales for that period. We anticipate that net sales from international customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our total net sales. In addition, many of our new distributors, service and sales personnel are increasingly located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political, economic or other conditions; • stability and performance of new distributors, exposure to collection of receivables, sales returns and allowances; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations. We may not be able to achieve sustained operating profitability. We shipped our first product, the NIC, in February 1996, and we have shipped in excess of 5,800 units. However, we have experienced limited product shipments with respect to our NAA, OTS, and OWM products. In addition, we have incurred substantial costs, including costs to: • develop and enhance our technology and products; • develop our engineering, production and quality assurance operations; • recruit and train sales, marketing and customer service groups; • build administrative and operational support organizations; and • establish international sales channels and strengthen existing domestic sales channels. Our net losses totaled approximately $21.1 million and $12.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. We anticipate that our operating losses will continue in fiscal year 2006 as we create and introduce new products and technologies and develop additional distribution channels. We expect that any related increases in net sales will lag behind these cost increases for the foreseeable future. If we cannot fund expected losses until we achieve operating profitability or positive cash flow from operations, we may not be able to meet our cash and working capital requirements, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards or taxation rules may adversely affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or a change in existing taxation rules can have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. These new accounting pronouncements and taxation rules may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, under the newly issued SFAS No. 123R, we will be required to account for equity issued under our stock plans as a compensation expense, and our net income and net income per share will be significantly reduced. Currently, we record compensation expense only in connection with option grants that have an exercise price below the trading price of the stock. For option grants that have an exercise price less than the fair market value for the options (which reflect expected future increases in the stock price), we calculate compensation expense and disclose their impact on net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share, as well as the impact of all stock-based compensation expense in a footnote to the consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 123R requires that we adopt 15 Table of Contents the new accounting provisions beginning in our first quarter of 2006, and will require us to expense share-based payment awards, including shares issued under employee stock purchase plans, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights, as compensation cost. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will cause us to incur additional expenses. We will continue to make a significant investment to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and specifically Section 404 as required by the appropriate regulatory authority for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. The allocation of financial and human resources sufficient to ensure the completion of proper documentation, testing, disclosure and remediation efforts will negatively impact our operating results. We may engage in acquisitions, mergers, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures that could result in financial results that are different than expected. In the normal course of business, we engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, mergers, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. As part of our business strategy, we completed two asset acquisitions during 2002. Acquisition transactions are accompanied by a number of risks, including: • use of significant amounts of cash; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities on potentially unfavorable terms; • incurrence of debt on potentially unfavorable terms as well as amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; and • the possibility that we may pay too much cash or issue too much of our stock as consideration for an acquisition relative to the economic benefits that we ultimately derive from such acquisition. The process of integrating any acquisition may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures including the following: • diversion of management time during the period of negotiation through closing and further diversion of such time after closing from focus on operating the businesses to issues of integration and future products; • decline in employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business; • the need to integrate each company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; • the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition had been smaller, private companies; • the need to incorporate acquired technology, content or rights into our products and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; and • the need to successfully develop an acquired in-process technology to achieve the value currently capitalized as intangible assets. From time to time, we may engage in discussions with candidates regarding the potential acquisition of our product lines, technologies and businesses. If such divestiture were to occur, there can be no assurance that our business, operating results and financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected. A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to: • effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to the purchaser; • identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we retain; and • reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business. 16 Table of Contents In addition, if customers of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, this may adversely affect our other businesses to the extent that these customers also purchase other Digital Lightwave products. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert attention from other business operations. Further, if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively affected. We are dependent on key personnel and our ability to recruit and retain such personnel may affect our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of key management and other personnel, some of whom could be difficult to replace. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance covering our officers. Our success will depend on the performance of our officers, our ability to retain and motivate our officers, our ability to integrate new officers into our operations and the ability of all personnel to work together effectively as a team. We have had significant turnover of our executive officers in the past and could continue to have problems retaining and recruiting executive officers in the future. Our failure to retain and recruit officers and other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on a limited number of products and are uncertain of the market for our current products and planned new products. The majority of our sales are from our initial product, the NIC, and we expect that sales of NIC will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. During 1998, we started shipping a commercial version of our NAA based on the same core technology as the NIC. We cannot predict the future level of acceptance by our customers of the NAA product, and we may not be able to generate significant net sales from this product. We are uncertain about the size and scope of the market for our current and future products, including the product lines we have acquired. Our future performance will depend on increased sales of the NIC, market acceptance of the NAA, our ability to successfully transition the OWM and OTS products obtained in 2002, and the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of other new and enhanced products. Market acceptance of our products and our credibility with our customers might be diminished if we are delayed in introducing or producing new products or fail to detect software or hardware errors in new products (which frequently occur when new products are first introduced). Any delay in introducing or producing new products or failure to detect software or hardware errors in new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change. To remain competitive, we must respond to the rapid technological change in our industry by developing, manufacturing and selling new products and technology and improving our existing products and technology. The market in which we compete is characterized by the following: • rapid technological change; • changes in customer requirements and preferences; • frequent new product introductions; and • the emergence of new industry standards and practices. These factors could cause our sales to decrease or render our current products obsolete. Our success will depend upon our ability to: • create improvements on and enhancements to our existing products; • develop, manufacture and sell new products to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our current and prospective customers; • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; and • increase market acceptance of our products. 17 Table of Contents The failure to meet these objectives or to adapt to changing market conditions or customer requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products serve an industry that is extremely competitive, and such competition may negatively affect our business. The market for our products is intensely competitive and is subject to rapid technological change, frequent product introductions with improved performance, competitive pricing and shifting industry standards. We believe that the principal factors on which we compete include the following: • product performance; • product quality; • product reliability; • value; • customer service and support; and • length of operating history, industry experience and name recognition. Many of our competitors and certain prospective competitors have significantly longer operating histories, larger installed bases, greater name recognition and significantly greater technical, financial, manufacturing and marketing resources. In addition, a number of these competitors have long-established relationships with our customers and potential customers. We expect that competition will increase in the future and that new competitors will enter the market for most, if not all, of the products we currently do and will offer. Increased competition could reduce our profit margins and cause us to lose, or prevent us from gaining, market share. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on a limited number of major customers and a decrease in orders from any major customer could decrease our net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2005, three customers combined to account for approximately 32% of net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2004, one customer accounted for approximately 21% of net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2003, two customers combined to account for approximately 27% of net sales. No other customer accounted for sales of 10% or more during those years. Our success is dependent upon our ability to broaden our customer base to increase the level of sales. None of our customers has a written agreement with us that obligates them to purchase additional products from us. If one or more of our major customers decide not to purchase additional products or cancels orders previously placed, our net sales could decrease which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our products continuing to meet changing regulatory and industry standards. Our products must meet industry standards and regulations that are evolving as new technologies are deployed. In the United States, our products must comply with various regulations promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission and Underwriters Laboratories, as well as industry standards established by the American Standards Institute and other organizations. Internationally, our products must comply with standards established by the European Union and communication authorities in other countries as well as with recommendations of the Consultative Committee on International Telegraph and Telephony. Some of our planned products may be required to be certified by Telcordia in order to be commercially viable. The failure of our products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving regulations could prevent us from selling our products in certain markets which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We are dependent on proprietary technology. Our success and our ability to compete depend upon our proprietary technology that is protected through a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark law. As of March 20, 2006, we had six issued patents relating to the NIC and NAA technology and two issued patents relating to the Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing technology in the United States. Currently, we have 14 patents pending relating to our technology. We cannot assure you that the patents for which we have applied or intend to apply will be issued or that the steps that we take to protect our technology will be adequate to prevent misappropriation. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Our business strategy includes a plan to continue the increase in net sales in international markets, and the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. To further protect our proprietary information, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements and proprietary information and invention assignment agreements with our employees and suppliers and limit access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. It may be possible for third parties to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization despite these precautions. We may either license our proprietary rights to third parties or license certain technologies from third parties for use in our products. The telecommunications industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. We believe that our technology does not infringe on the proprietary rights of others, and we have not received any notice of claimed infringements. However, third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future that may or may not be successful. We could incur substantial costs regardless of the merits of the claims if we must defend ourselves or our customers against such claims. Parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to sell our products and could obtain an award of substantial damages. We may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, including our customers, in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us. Any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before such detection takes place. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Furthermore, some intellectual property rights are licensed to other companies, allowing them to compete with us using that intellectual property. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely in the future to be highly volatile. Our common stock price may fluctuate significantly in response to factors such as: • quarterly variations in operating results; • announcements of technological innovations; • new product introductions by us or our competitors; • competitive activities; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts or our failure to meet such earnings estimates; • significant issuances of warrants to purchase common stock; • significant outstanding debt becoming convertible; • announcements by us regarding significant acquisitions, strategic relationships or capital expenditure commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • issuances of convertible or equity securities for general or merger and acquisition purposes; 19 Table of Contents • issuances of debt or convertible debt for general or merger and acquisition purposes; • changes in federal, state or foreign regulations affecting the telecommunications industry; • general market and economic conditions; and • developments relating to future significant litigation. The stocks of technology companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry factors listed above may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and fluctuations in the market price of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The sale or issuance of a significant number of shares of our stock could depress the price of our stock. Sales or issuances of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of March 20, 2006, 35,207,075 shares of our common stock were outstanding. Of these shares, 23,697,599 are eligible for sale in the public market without restriction, including 5,000,000 shares held by an entity controlled by Dr. Zwan, our largest stockholder, that are registered for resale. In addition, entities controlled by Dr. Zwan hold an additional 8,420,008 shares of outstanding common stock, including 920,000 shares that are subject to forward sales agreements. As an “affiliate” of the Company (as defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended), Dr. Zwan may only sell shares of common stock in the public market in compliance with the volume limitations of Rule 144 or pursuant to an effective registration statement. We have agreed to register the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the Secured Convertible Promissory Note held by Optel. The conversion price of the Secured Convertible Promissory Note is based upon the volume-weighted average trading price of our common stock during the five-day period preceding the date of any conversion. The registration of our common stock issuable upon conversion of Secured Convertible Promissory Note could depress the price of our stock, the conversion by Optel of such note would substantially dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, and the resale of such shares could further depress the price of our stock. We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. We have been, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding employment law issues, contractual claims, securities laws violations and other matters. We are currently not involved in any legal proceedings or claims. Any future legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend and could divert management’s attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of legal proceedings. We may incur significant litigation expenses associated with legal proceedings and claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” under SEC rules, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to resell our common stock. Our common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the holders of our common stock may find it more difficult to obtain accurate quotations concerning the market value of the stock. Stockholders also may experience greater difficulties in attempting to sell the stock than if it was listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on the Nasdaq National Market or the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. Because our common stock is not traded on a stock exchange or on Nasdaq, and the market price of the common stock is less than $5.00 per share, the common stock is classified as a “penny stock.” Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended, imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an “established customer” or an “accredited investor.” These include the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination that investments in penny stocks are suitable for the customer and must make special disclosures to the customer concerning the risks of penny stocks. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock could adversely affect the market liquidity of the shares, which in turn may affect the ability of holders of our common stock to resell the stock. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 