Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that May Affect the Future Results of our Business Our revenue would decline significantly if we lose one or more of our most significant customers, which could have a significant adverse impact on us. A significant portion of our revenues are concentrated among three customers, Herbalife International of America, Inc., Costco Wholesale, Inc. and Sam’s Club. For the years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, these customers represented approximately 53% and 74% of total revenue, respectively. The loss of any of these customers could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our senior management, the loss of whom would have an adverse effect on us. We presently are dependent upon the executive abilities of our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, E. Gerald Kay, and our other executive officers. Our business and operations to date chiefly have been implemented under the direction of these individuals, who presently are, and in the future will be, responsible for the implementation of our anticipated plans and programs. The loss or unavailability of the services of one or more of our principal executives would have an adverse effect on us. We may encounter difficulty in our ability to recruit and ultimately hire any replacement or additional executive officers having similar background, experience and qualifications as those of our current executive officers. There is no assurance that we will remain listed on an active trading market. Although our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market, there can be no assurance that we will, in the future, be able to meet all the requirements for continued quotation on that exchange. In the absence of an active trading market or if our common stock cannot be traded on the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock could instead be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the Pink Sheets. In such event, the liquidity and stock price in the secondary market may be adversely affected. In addition, in the event our common stock was de-listed; broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them which may discourage them from effecting transactions in our common stock and hence, could further limit the liquidity of our common stock. We face substantial uncertainty in our ability to protect our patents and proprietary technology. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend, in part, on our or our licensors’ ability to obtain patents, to enforce those patents and preserve trade secrets, and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies like us are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. To date, we have 22 U.S. applications pending and 34 applications pending in Europe, Canada, Australia, China, India, Brazil, Japan, Hong Kong and New Zealand for the intellectual property developed by FhCMB. There can be no assurance that: · patent applications owned by or licensed to us will result in issued patents; · patent protection will be secured for any particular technology; · any patents that have been or may be issued to us will be valid or enforceable; · any patents will provide meaningful protection to us; · others will not be able to design around the patents; or · our patents will provide a competitive advantage or have commercial application. · The failure to obtain and maintain adequate patent protection would have a material adverse effect on us and may adversely affect our ability to enter into, or affect the terms of, any arrangement for the marketing of any product. 10 The risk of our ability to protect our patents and proprietary technology is mainly attributable to our Biotechnologies segment. As a result of the spin-off subsequent to our fiscal year end, this factor will be less of a risk to our Nutraceutial and Pharmaceutical segments. We cannot assure you that our patents will not be challenged by others. There can be no assurance that patents owned by or licensed to us will not be challenged by others. We currently hold one issued U.S. patent for methods of inducing gene silencing in plants and one U.S. patent application for which we have received a notice of allowance, describing systems for expression of vaccine antigens in plants. We could incur substantial costs in proceedings, including interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office and comparable proceedings before similar agencies in other countries in connection with any claims that may arise in the future. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions about the patentability of our or our licensors’ inventions and products, as well as about the enforceability, validity or scope of protection afforded by the patents. Any adverse decisions about the patentability of our product candidates could cause us to either lose rights to develop and commercialize our product candidates or to license such rights at substantial cost to us. In addition, even if we were successful in such proceedings, the cost and delay of such proceedings would most likely have a material adverse effect on our business. The risk of protecting our patents is mainly attributable to our Biotechnologies segment. As a result of the spin-off subsequent to our fiscal year end, this factor will be less of a risk factor to our Nutraceutial and Pharmaceutical segments. We face competition from many different sources, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions, and such competition may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from our products. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, clinical trials, regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. For example, large pharmaceutical companies are in the influenza vaccine business. If we are successful in obtaining regulatory approval for our influenza vaccine candidate, these large companies would be our competitors. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through business arrangements with large and established companies that may reduce the potential demand for access to our platform. For example, Novavax is conducting human clinical trials of vaccines for influenza and other infectious diseases using cell culture processes for manufacturing, and Medicago has announced preclinical experiments to produce influenza vaccines in green plants. Finally, these third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. If we fail to commercialize any of our product candidates, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain profitability or continue our business operations and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decline. The risk of protecting our patents is mainly attributable to our Biotechnologies segment. As a result of the spin-off subsequent to our fiscal year end, this factor will be less of a risk factor to our Nutraceutical and Pharmaceutical segments. We have entered into several transactions with entities controlled by some of our officers and directors, which could pose a conflict of interest. We have entered into several agreements and arrangements described in our previous SEC public filings and to be fully described in our proxy statement for our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, including the lease of real property from Vitamin Realty Associates, L.L.C., the merger with NuCycle Acquisition Corp., and the acquisition of the Paxis business from Trade Investment Services, LLC, which involved transactions with entities significantly 11 owned by members of the Kay family and other of our significant shareholders and/or executive officers, who collectively own a majority of our shares of common stock. Although we believe that these transactions were advantageous to us and were on terms no less favorable to us than could have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties, transactions with related parties can potentially pose a conflict of interest. Our Executive Officers and Directors have majority voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interest of other stockholders, but in their own interest. Our Executive Officers and Directors beneficially own approximately 66% of our outstanding shares. If these stockholders act together, they may be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders. We have a staggered Board of Directors, which could impede an attempt to acquire us or remove our management. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered term of three years. This division of our Board of Directors could have the effect of impeding an attempt to take over our company or change or remove management, since only one class will be elected annually. Thus, only approximately one-third of the existing Board of Directors could be replaced at any election of directors. Our product liability insurance may be insufficient to cover possible claims against us. Our company, like other manufacturers, wholesalers and distributors of vitamin and nutritional supplement products and APIs, faces an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if, among other things, the use or ingestion of our products, result in sickness or injury. We currently maintain a product liability insurance policy that provides a total of $5.0 million of coverage per occurrence and $5.0 million of coverage in the aggregate. We also maintain a professional liability policy to insure our contract research services with similar insurance coverage. However, there can be no assurance that existing or future insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover any possible product liability risks or that such insurance will continue to be available to us on economically feasible terms. Our Nutraceutical products are manufactured using various raw materials consisting of vitamins, minerals, herbs, fruit extracts and other ingredients that we regard as safe when taken as recommended by us and that various scientific studies have suggested may provide health benefits. We could be adversely affected if any our products or any similar products distributed by other companies should prove or be asserted to be harmful to consumers or should scientific studies provide unfavorable findings regarding the effectiveness of our products. We may not be able to obtain raw materials used in certain of our manufactured products. The principal raw materials used in the manufacturing process in the company’s Nutraceutical segment are natural and synthetic vitamins, minerals, herbs, related nutritional supplements, gelatin capsules, coating materials, fruit extracts, fruit juices and the necessary components for packaging the finished products. The raw materials are available from numerous sources within the United States and abroad. The gelatin capsules, coating materials and packaging materials are similarly widely available. The principal raw materials used in our Pharmaceutical segment are made up of a variety of materials used to develop and manufacture Paclitaxel. We generally purchase our raw materials, on a purchase order basis, without long-term commitments. Our principal suppliers in our Nutraceutical Segment are Creative Flavor Concepts, Inc., Triarco Industries, Inc., and DSM Nutritional Products, Inc. We incur significant accounting and other control costs that impact our financial condition. As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Some of our competitors are privately owned 12 so their accounting and control costs can be a competitive disadvantage for us. Should our sales decline or if we are unsuccessful at increasing prices to cover higher expenditures for internal controls and audits, our costs associated with regulatory compliance will rise as a percentage of sales. Other issues and uncertainties may include: · New accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting policies; and · Legislation or other governmental action that detrimentally impacts our expenses or reduces sales by adversely affecting our customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 