Item 1A. Risk Factors Please carefully consider the following risk factors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The risk factors described below are not the only ones we face. Risks and uncertainties not known to us currently, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our inability to repay, refinance or extend our Notes Payable with a principal balance of $7.8 million by December 31, 2011, the termination date under our Forbearance Agreement, entered into on October 4, 2011 with the Note Payable Holders could adversely affect our liquidity, business, financial performance and ability to continue as a going concern and is requiring us to evaluate and consider strategic alternatives. The Company defaulted on the $7.8 million outstanding principal amount of its notes payable (the “Notes Payable”), issued by the Company under that certain Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 21, 2008 (the “SPA”), by failing to repay the Notes Payable on the scheduled maturity date of November 15, 2009. The Company’s failure to repay the Notes Payable on the scheduled maturity date constituted an Event of Default under the Notes Payable and triggered the right of the holders of the Notes Payable (the “Note Payable Holders”) to give the Company a notice (an “Acceleration Notice”) to accelerate the payment of all unpaid principal and accrued and unpaid interest (including interest accruing at the default rate). The Notes Payable are secured by a pledge of substantially all of the Company’s assets. On March 19, 2010, the Company received a payment demand for default interest from one of the Note Payable Holders holding approximately 73% of the outstanding balance of the Notes Payable. As of October 13, 2011, the Company has not repaid the Notes Payable or the default interest accrued on the Notes Payable. On October 4, 2011, the Company and the Collateral Agent for the Note Payable Holders, entered into a Forbearance Agreement (See Item 7 - “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity, Going Concern and Capital Resources”). There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to repay, restructure or amend the Notes Payable by December 31, 2011. In the interim, the Company has continued to make timely interest payments to the Note Payable Holders at the non default rate of 8% per annum and is exploring its strategic alternatives, which may include business divestitures, developing business and sales strategies to increase operating income, the sale of some or all of the Company’s assets or operating subsidiaries and/or capital restructuring plans. If the Notes Payable are not repaid by December 31, 2011, and as a result of the events of default that arose based upon the Company’s failure to pay each of the Notes Payable at maturity, the Note Payable Holders have the right to give the Company an Acceleration Notice, which would (i) accelerate the payment of all unpaid principal and accrued and unpaid interest (including default interest on the Notes Payable arising subsequent to December 31, 2011, if any), and (ii) require the Company to pay an amount equal to the sum of all of the respective amounts described in the preceding clause (i) in same day funds on the payment date specified in such notice. If the Company is unable to raise additional capital, sell certain assets or successfully refinance the full outstanding amount of the Notes Payable upon acceptable terms, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company, including the possible foreclosure by the Note Payable Holders of all or some of the Company’s assets, and would impact the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our inability to repay or refinance our Convertible Note Payable, with a principal balance $4.5 million may upon any default notice adversely affect our liquidity, business, financial performance and ability to continue as a going concern and is requiring us to evaluate and consider strategic alternatives. The Company defaulted on the $4.5 million outstanding principal amount of its note payable (the “Convertible Notes Payable”), issued by the Company under that certain Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 21, 2008 (the “CD SPA”), by failing to repay the Convertible Note Payable on the scheduled maturity date of February 21, 2011. The Company’s failure to repay the Convertible Note Payable on the scheduled maturity date constituted an Event of Default under the Convertible Note Payable and triggered the right of the holder of the Convertible Note Payable to give the Company a notice (“CD Acceleration Notice”) to accelerate the payment of all unpaid principal and accrued and unpaid interest. The Convertible Note Payable is secured by a pledge of substantially all of the Company’s assets, which pledge is subordinated to the security interest held by the Note Payable Holders. As of October 13, 2011, the Company has not repaid the Convertible Note Payable or the interest in arrears on the Convertible Note Payable. The holder of the Convertible Note Payable, CD Financial is a significant shareholder of the Company and has not made any payment demands on the Company with respect to the Convertible Note Payable, nor has it converted the Convertible Note Payable into common shares of the Company. In March 2009, the Company and CD Financial entered into an oral agreement to suspend the cash interest payments on the Convertible Note Payable until the Company returns to positive cash flows in its operations. In this oral agreement, CD Financial also agreed not to give any default notices and that interest does not have to be accrued at the default interest rate. In connection with the Forbearance Agreement, CD Financial has also agreed to receive no principal payments until all obligations owed by the Company to the Note Payable Holders under the Transaction Documents have been repaid. 9 There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to repay, restructure or amend the Convertible Note Payable prior to receipt by the Company of a CD Acceleration Notice. In the interim, the Company is exploring its strategic alternatives, which may include business divestitures, developing business and sales strategies to increase operating income, the sale of some or all of the Company’s assets or operating subsidiaries and/or capital restructuring plans. As a result of the events of default that arose based upon the Company’s failure to repay the Convertible Note Payable at maturity, the holder of the Convertible Note Payable has the right to give the Company a CD Acceleration Notice, which would (i) accelerate the payment of all unpaid principal and accrued and unpaid interest (including default interest (if any)) on the Convertible Note Payable, respectively, and (ii) require the Company to pay an amount equal to the sum of all of the respective amounts described in the preceding clause (i) in same day funds on the payment date specified in the notice, provided such date must be at least two (2) business days following the date on which the notice is delivered to the Company. If the Company is unable to raise additional capital, sell certain assets or successfully refinance the full outstanding amount of the Convertible Note Payable upon acceptable terms, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company, including the possible foreclosure by the holder of the Convertible Note Payable of all or some of the Company’s assets, and would impact the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. We have incurred losses and could incur continued losses and negative cash flow in the near term; our financial statements are subject to going concern qualifications from our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms that performed our audits. We have incurred recurring operating losses and negative operating cash flows for five consecutive years and expect to continue to incur net losses in the near term and generate negative cash flow until we can produce consistent sufficient revenues to cover our costs through the sale of our products. We incurred a net loss of approximately $2.3 million and operating cash flows of approximately $390,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011. At June 30, 2011, we had cash of approximately $725,000 (including approximately $162,000 included in assets from discontinued operations), a working capital deficit of approximately $9.5 million, primarily attributable to the Notes Payable in the outstanding principal amount of $7.8 million which were due on November 15, 2009, and are currently in default, the Convertible Note Payable in the outstanding principal amount of $4.5 million which was due on February 21, 2011, and iscurrently in default, and an accumulated deficit of approximately $52.2 million. These factors raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We may continue to generate net losses for the foreseeable future and cannot assure when we will achieve profitability. In order for us to remain a going concern, we will need to replace or extend our existing financing to continue our operations and to meet our cash flow needs. In view of our financial situation and current market and economic conditions, we do not know if additional financing will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Moreover, if we raise additional capital through borrowing or other debt financing, we would incur substantial interest expense. Sales of additional equity securities, including upon the exercise of convertible securities, will dilute on a pro rata basis the percentage ownership of all holders of common stock. Any inability to replace or extend our existing financing will materially adversely affect us, including possibly requiring us to significantly further curtail, sell or cease business operations altogether. 10 Our revenue would decline significantly if we lose one or more of our most significant customers, which could have a significant adverse impact on us. A significant portion of our revenues (including those in our revenues classified as discontinued operations) are concentrated among three customers, Herbalife, Costco and The Vitamin Shoppe. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, a significant portion of our net sales from our continuing operations were concentrated among two of these customers, Herbalife and The Vitamin Shoppe and represented 86% and 79% of total net sales from continuing operations, respectively. Costco represented approximately 88% and 85% of net sales from our operations classified as discontinued operations in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The loss of any of these customers could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Complying with new and existing government regulation, both in the U.S. and abroad, could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our financial results. The processing, formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by several U.S. federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Department of Agriculture and the EPA, as well as various state, local and international laws and agencies of the localities in which our products are sold. Government regulations may prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of our products. Some agencies, such as the FDA or state agencies, could require us to remove a particular product from the market, delay or prevent the import of raw materials for the manufacture of our products, or otherwise disrupt the marketing of our products. Any such government actions would result in additional costs to us, including lost revenues from any additional products that we are required to remove from the market, which additional costs could be material. Any such government actions also could lead to liability, substantial costs and reduced growth prospects. Moreover, there can be no assurance that new laws or regulations imposing more stringent regulatory requirements on the dietary supplement industry will not be enacted or issued. In addition, complying with adverse event reporting requirements imposes additional costs on us, which costs could become significant in the event more demanding reporting requirements are put into place. Additional or more stringent regulations of dietary supplements and other products have been considered from time to time. These developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products that cannot be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, adverse event reporting or other new requirements. These developments also could increase our costs significantly. For example, the FDA issued rules which became effective in 2008 that imposed substantial new regulatory requirements for dietary supplements, including GMPs. Congress also passed legislation requiring adverse event reporting and related record keeping which imposed additional costs on us. See Item 1. "Business—Government Regulation" for additional information. We may be exposed to legal proceedings initiated by regulators or third parties either in the United States or abroad which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating income. In the United States and abroad, non-compliance with relevant legislation can result in regulators bringing administrative or, in some cases, criminal proceedings. As manufacturers of nutraceutical products, our products are regulated by various governments and it is common for regulators to prosecute retailers and manufacturers for non-compliance with legislation governing foodstuffs and medicines. Failures by us or our subsidiaries to comply with applicable legislation could occur from time to time and prosecution for any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, we are subject, from time to time, to claims by third parties under various legal theories. The defense of such claims, or any adverse outcome relating to any such claims, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and cash flows. 11 We depend on our senior management, the loss of whom would have an adverse effect on us. We presently are dependent upon the executive abilities of our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, E. Gerald Kay, and our other executive officers. Our business and operations to date chiefly have been implemented under the direction of these individuals, who presently are, and in the future will be, responsible for the implementation of our anticipated plans and programs. The loss or unavailability of the services of one or more of our principal executives would have an adverse effect on us. We may encounter difficulty in our ability to recruit and ultimately hire any replacement or additional executive officers having similar background, experience and qualifications as those of our current executive officers. There is no assurance that we will remain listed on an active trading market. Our common stock is currently trading on the OTC Bulletin Board. From February 27, 2009 through September 22, 2009, our common stock was trading in the Pink Sheets. Prior to February 27, 2009, our common stock was listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, and there can be no assurance that we will, in the future, be able to meet all the requirements for reinstatement on that exchange. The delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market has, and may in the future continue to adversely affect the liquidity and trading of our common stock. We have entered into several transactions with entities controlled by some of our officers and directors, which could pose a conflict of interest. We have entered into several agreements and arrangements described in our previous SEC filing and to be described in our proxy statement for our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, including the lease of real property from Vitamin Realty Associates, L.L.C. (“Vitamin Realty”), the sale of our financial debt securities, and issuance of our common stock, which involved transactions with entities significantly owned by members of the Kay family and other of our significant shareholders and/or executive officers, who collectively own a majority of our shares of common stock. Although we believe that these transactions were advantageous to us and were on terms no less favorable to us than could have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties, transactions with related parties can potentially pose a conflict of interest. Our Executive Officers and Directors have majority voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interest of other stockholders, but in their own interest. Our Executive Officers and Directors beneficially own approximately 64% of our outstanding shares. If these stockholders act together, they would be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs since significant corporate transactions require stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders. We have a staggered Board of Directors, which could impede an attempt to acquire the Company or remove our management. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered term of three years. This division of our Board of Directors could have the effect of impeding an attempt to take over our company or change or remove management, since only one class will be elected annually. Thus, only approximately one-third of the existing Board of Directors could be replaced at any election of directors. Our product liability insurance may be insufficient to cover possible claims against us. Our company, like other manufacturers, wholesalers and distributors of vitamin and nutritional supplement products, faces an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if, among other things, the use or ingestion of our products, result in sickness or injury. We currently maintain a product liability insurance policy that provides a total of $5.0 million of coverage per occurrence and $5.0 million of coverage in the aggregate. However, there can be no assurance that existing or future insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover any possible product liability risks or that such insurance will continue to be available to us on economically feasible terms. 12 Our nutraceutical products are manufactured using various raw materials consisting of vitamins, minerals, herbs, fruit extracts and other ingredients that we regard as safe when taken as recommended by us and that various scientific studies have suggested may provide health benefits. We could be adversely affected if any our products or any similar products distributed by other companies should prove or be asserted to be harmful to consumers or should scientific studies provide unfavorable findings regarding the effectiveness of our products. We may not be able to obtain raw materials used in certain of our manufactured products. The principal raw materials used in the manufacturing process in the Company’s nutraceutical business are natural and synthetic vitamins, minerals, herbs, related nutritional supplements, gelatin capsules, coating materials, fruit extracts, fruit juices and the necessary components for packaging the finished products. The raw materials are available from numerous sources within the United States and abroad. The gelatin capsules, coating materials and packaging materials are similarly widely available. We generally purchase our raw materials, on a purchase order basis, without long-term commitments. Our principal suppliers are Triarco Industries, Inc. and DSM Nutritional Products, Inc. for our continuing operations and Creative Flavor Concepts, Inc. for our AgroLabs business which is classified as discontinued operations in the financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our major suppliers, we may not be able to find alternate sourcing of our raw materials or at the same pricing that we receive from our current suppliers and/or quickly enough to make timely shipments to our customers. These factors could decrease our sales and/or increase our cost of sales. Current economic conditions may cause a decline in business and consumer spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our operating results are impacted by the health of the North American economies. Our business and financial performance, including collection of our accounts receivable, recoverability of assets including investments, may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions, such as a reduction in the availability of credit, financial market volatility, recession, etc. Additionally, we may experience difficulties in scaling our operations to react to economic pressures in the U.S. We incur significant professional service fees and other control costs that impact our financial condition. As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Some of our competitors are privately owned so their accounting and control costs can be a competitive disadvantage for us. Should our sales decline or if we are unsuccessful at increasing prices to cover higher expenditures for internal controls, audits, consultants and legal, our costs associated with regulatory compliance will rise as a percentage of sales. 13 Other issues and uncertainties may include: · New accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting policies; and · Legislation or other governmental action that detrimentally impacts our expenses or reduces sales by adversely affecting our customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 