Item 1A. Risk Factors This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, without limitation, statements regarding our intention to shift more of our focus towards the management and support of customers' enterprise, e-commerce and m-commerce applications. Our business, operations and financial conditions are subject to various risks. Our material risks that are currently known to management are described. This section may not describe all risks associated with us, our industry or business. The factors discussed below could cause actual results and developments to be materially different from those expressed in or implied by such statements. If we are unable to generate new sales and maintain our profitability, our business and financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our ability to maintain profitability in future periods will depend in large part on our ability to generate new sales, particularly annuity-based engagements, to maintain our rate of employee utilization, and to manage selling, general and administrative expenses in proportion to our top line. We cannot assure you that we will be able continue to generate profits or that a failure to do so would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The departure of one or more key employees may have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of the key members of our management team, as well as marketing and sales personnel, and our ability to attract retain new management and other personnel. In addition, our future performance depends on the ability to effectively transition key management, sales and operational roles, including adequate knowledge transfer, in the event any turnover in our key personnel. The loss of any one or more of our key personnel or the failure to attract and retain key personnel or the ability to effectively manage changes in key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled employees our profitability may adversely affected. Our business is labor intensive and, therefore, our success depends in large part on our ability to recruit, retain, train and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly project managers and other senior level technical personnel. Our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled employees is impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to, concerns regarding our financial condition and competition for employees in India which may cause increasing compensation for existing and prospective employees, and the continued ability to use stock options to compensate such highly skilled employees in light of recent changes in accounting rules related to stock options. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled employees or that a failure to do so would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 We may not be able to compete effectively for technical personnel in India. The market for technical personnel in India, which represents our primary recruiting market for our technical personnel, is extremely competitive resulting in increased compensation costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete for technical personnel in India or that a failure to compete would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our operations are located in India and we are subject to regulatory, economic and political uncertainties in India. We intend to continue to develop and expand our offshore facilities in India where, as of December 31, 2007, a majority of our technical professionals were located. While wage costs are lower in India than in the United States and other developed countries for comparably skilled professionals, wages in India are increasing at a faster rate than in the United States, which could result in our incurring increased costs for technical professionals and reduced operating margins. In addition, there is intense competition in India for skilled technical professionals and we expect that competition to increase. Operating in India involves certain regional geopolitical risks that are different than operating in the US, including history of civil unrest, terrorism and substantial economic regulation by the Indian Government. Such geopolitical risks may cause disruptions to our operations or may cause our customers to decline to contract with us for offshore services. Our performance could be materially adversely affected by a general economic downturn or lessening demand in the information technology services industry. Our business and financial condition depends on the health of the general economy, as well as the demand for information technology services. Our revenue and profits are driven by demand for our services. A lessening demand in either the overall economy or the software sector could lead to a material decrease in our future revenues and earnings. Other factors, that are beyond our control, that can also impact our performance include: (i) patterns of software and hardware capital spending by customers, (ii) information technology outsourcing trends, (iii) the timing, size and stage of projects, (iv) new service introductions by us or our competitors and the timing of new product introductions by our ERP partners, (v) levels of market acceptance for our services, (vi) general economic conditions, and (vii) the hiring of additional staff. We cannot assure you that there will not be a general economic downturn or that such a downturn would not have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain access to external funding, we may be unable to continue our ongoing business or fund future growth. In addition to cash generated by on-going operations, we rely on access to external sources of funding and our ability to timely collect cash from our customers to manage our business. Our existing credit facility, which represents our sole source of external funding, expires in May 2008. Our ability to continue its ongoing business operations and fund future growth depends on our ability to secure a new credit facility and to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants in such credit facility or to secure alternate sources of financing. However, such credit facility or alternate financing may not be available or if available may not be on terms favorable to us. The information technology services industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively. The markets for our services are highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. The increased competition in the industry, among other negative effects, may cause a decrease in our billing and employee utilization rates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively or that our inability to compete effectively would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Business and financial risks to important business partners may negatively impact our financial condition. We rely on continued relationships and business associated with SAP America and Oracle. The continued uncertainty relating to Oracle’s integration of PeopleSoft into its product offerings and the affect that this may have on general market acceptance of PeopleSoft’s products, could adversely impact our ability to sell professional consulting services related to such enterprise resource applications. If we lose any large customer, our financial condition could be materially, negatively impacted. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers and projects. Our ability to grow our business depends in large part on maintaining such customer relationships and the continuing purchasing power of such customers. The loss of any large customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will not lose a large customer or that losing a large customer would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Ability to Maintain Effective Internal Controls. We have previously experienced material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to continue to maintain an effective control environment and to prevent material weaknesses, or to remediate any weaknesses that may arise, such failure will adversely impact our ability: (i) to effectively manage our business; (ii) to timely record, process, summarize and report financial statements that fairly present, in all material aspects, our financial condition, statements of operations and cash flows; and (iii) to comply with applicable law, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Section 404"). In addition beginning with our 2008 annual report, our independent public registered accounting firm will be required to provide an attestation of our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, such inability may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to comply with Section 404. The fact that our common stock is not listed on a national exchange may negatively impact our ability to attract investors and to use our common stock to fund future growth. Our common stock trades on the Pink Sheets. In order to maintain liquidity in our common stock, we depend upon the continuing availability of a market on which our securities may be traded. The fact that our common stock is not listed on a national exchange may impact our ability to attract investors and to use our common stock to fund future growth. Currency fluctuations may negatively impact our financial results, and this may in turn discourage investment. Uncertainty relating to worldwide currency exchange rates, particularly in regard to the Indian rupee, the Euro, British Pound, Danish Kroner and Japanese Yen, and the fluctuations in such exchange rates may impact our quarterly and/or annual financial results. We cannot assure you that such a fluctuation in currency would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 We can not predict shifts in policy or political changes in governments which can regulate or impact our business operations, specifically in the United States and India. There is the potential for future legislation by the U.S. government regulating or taxing outsourcing which may adversely affect our business model. In addition, there is continued uncertainty relating to the current geopolitical climate, particularly relative to internal India politics and their relation to India’s continuing efforts to liberalize its economy and be receptive to economic conditions and policies favorable to our business model. Changes in India’s economic policies or additional legislation regarding information technology services businesses may adversely affect our business model. Liability claims for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information or system failures could have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of our customers’ businesses and provide benefits that are difficult to quantify. Any failure in a customer’s ERP system could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. Although we attempt to limit by contract our liability for damages arising from negligent acts, errors, mistakes or omissions in rendering our services, we cannot assure you that any contractual limitations on liability will be enforceable in all instances or will otherwise protect us from liability for damages. In addition, we often have access to confidential client and customer data. If any person, including any of our employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive data, we could be subject to significant liability from our clients for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Although we have general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions, there can be no assurance that coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be sufficient in amount to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. System failure or disruptions in telecommunications could disrupt our business and result in lost customers and curtailed operations which would reduce our revenue and profitability. To deliver our services to our customers, we must maintain a high speed network of satellite, fiber optic and land lines and active voice and data communications 24 hours a day between our main offices in India and globally and the offices of our customers worldwide. Although we maintain back-up facilities, any systems failure could disrupt the services we provide to our customers and could result in lost customers and curtailed operations which would reduce our revenue and profitability. 20 Our growth may be hindered by immigration restrictions. The vast majority of our IT professionals in the United States are Indian nationals. The ability of Indian nationals to work in the United States depends on their ability and our ability to obtain the necessary visas. The H-1B visa classification enables U.S. employers to hire qualified foreign workers in positions that require an education at least equal to a Baccalaureate Degree in the United States in specialty occupations such as IT systems engineering and systems analysis. There is a limit on the number of new H-1B petitions that United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, or CIS, one of the successor agencies to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, may approve in any federal fiscal year, and in years in which this limit is reached, we may be unable to obtain H-1B visas necessary to bring foreign employees to the United States. Each year the H-1B cap is reached at an earlier point prior to the beginning of the fiscal year for which the H-1B’s will be available. Compliance with existing U.S. immigration and labor laws, or changes in those laws making it more difficult to hire foreign nationals or limiting our ability to successfully obtain permanent residence for our foreign employees in the United States, could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain the skilled professionals we need for our operations in the United States. Any of these restrictions or limitations on our hiring practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Immigration laws and regulations are subject to legislative and administrative changes as well as changes in the application of standards and enforcement. Immigration laws and regulation can be significantly affected by political forces and levels of economic activity. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected if changes in immigration and work permit laws and regulations or the administration or enforcement of such laws or regulations impair our ability to staff projects with IT professionals who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. If our measures to protect our intellectual property rights are inadequate, our financial condition could be negatively impacted. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. Our future success is dependent, in part, upon our proprietary methodologies and toolsets, development tools and other intellectual property rights. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, generally require that our consultants and customers enter into such agreements, and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We also require that substantially all of our employees and consultants assign to us their rights in intellectual property developed while employed or engaged by us. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use of and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. We may be subject to increased tax liabilities, including if the spin-off of our former subsidiary, SeraNova, is determined to be taxable. We could be liable in the range of $55 million to $65 million and related penalties (if assessed) and interest could increase the amount by $40 million to $50 million as at December 31, 2007. In July 2000, we completed the tax-free spin-off of SeraNova, our former subsidiary. In March 2001, SeraNova and Silverline Technologies Limited (“Silverline”) consummated the acquisition of SeraNova by Silverline. Had the acquisition of SeraNova by Silverline been contemplated at the time of the spin-off, the spin-off would have been a taxable transaction. Based upon the information available to the us, we believe that such acquisition was not contemplated at the time of the spin-off of SeraNova by Intelligroup, and accordingly should not impact the tax-free nature of the spin-off. However, if it were determined that the spin-off was taxable, Intelligroup may have to bear the liability to pay such tax liability, which would be material. Please refer to Note 10 to the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007. 21 Third parties may claim that our services or deliverables infringe upon their intellectual property rights, which could result in material costs. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future, especially in light of recent developments in patent law expanding the scope of patents on software and business methods. These assertions, regardless of their validity, could result in costly and time-consuming litigation, including damage awards and indemnification payments to customers, or could require costly redesign of products or present the need to enter into royalty arrangements which could decrease margins and could adversely affect our results of operations. Any such litigation or redesign of products could also negatively impact customer confidence in our services or deliverables and could result in damage to our reputation and reduced licensing revenue. If accounting interpretations relating to revenue recognition change, our reported revenues could decline or we could be forced to make changes in our business practices. There are several accounting standards and interpretations covering revenue recognition for the software industry. These pronouncements include Statement of Position (“SOP”) 81-1 “Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts”, Emerging Issues Task Force of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Issue No. 00-21, “Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables” and the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 and 104, “Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements.” These standards address revenue recognition matters primarily from a conceptual level and do not include specific implementation guidance. We believe that our revenue has been recognized in compliance with pronouncements. The accounting profession and regulatory agencies continue to discuss various provisions of these pronouncements with the objective of providing additional guidance on their application. These discussions and the issuance of new interpretations, if any, could lead to unanticipated reductions in recognized revenue. They could also drive significant adjustments to our business practices which could result in increased administrative costs, lengthened sales cycles and other changes which could adversely affect our reported revenues and results of operations. Some of our clients may experience unique economic conditions that are specific to their particular industry which could adversely affect the results of our operations. 22 We provide services to clients in a wide variety of industries. Many of the industries are subject to factors and economic conditions that are unique to the particular industry and may not be reflected in the overall health of the economy in general. Our revenue growth and the realizability of our accounts receivable could be adversely affected if our clients in these particular industries encounter economic difficulties. Such difficulties could include: (1) inability of participants in the industry to access the capital or credit markets; (2) business slowdowns due to excess inventory; and (3) shortfalls in demand for the product or service produced by a particular industry. We frequently need to negotiate customer contract renewals on comparable terms to maintain our profitability. Contracts continually expire and must be renegotiated or rebid. Due to the competitive nature of our industry and variable economic status of our clients, we may experience difficulty in negotiating terms comparable to current or recently expired contracts. There can be no assurance that difficulty in renegotiating or renewing contracts would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There may be circumstances in which the interests of our major shareholders could be in conflict with your interests as a shareholder. Our major shareholders collectively own approximately 62% of our common stock on a consolidated basis as of the date of this report and control our board of directors. So long as our majority shareholders continue to own a majority to controlling interest of our common stock and control our board of directors, circumstances may occur in which the major shareholders (or other major investors) may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions, including among other things, taking advantage of certain corporate opportunities that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in us or another company in which they invest. These transactions might invoke risks to our other holders of common stock or adversely affect us or other investors. As a result of these factors and others, our actual results may differ materially from the results disclosed in the forward-looking statements contained in this report. 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 24 