Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. You should carefully read and consider the risk factors set forth below. A long period of operating under chapter 11 may harm our businesses. A long period of operating under chapter 11 could adversely affect our businesses and operations. So long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the Bankruptcy reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. A prolonged period of operating under chapter 11 will also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our businesses. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the more likely it is, that our customers and suppliers will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize our businesses and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the proceedings. A prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may also require us to: (i) seek additional financing; (ii) obtain relief from certain covenants contained in the DIP Credit Agreements; and/or (iii) negotiate an extension of the term of the DIP Credit Agreements, either as part of the DIP credit facility or otherwise, in order to service their debt and other obligations. It may not be possible for us to 24 Table of Contents obtain additional financing during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases on commercially favorable terms or at all. If we require additional financing during the Chapter 11 Cases and we are unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, our chances of successfully reorganizing our businesses may be seriously jeopardized. In addition, we may need to sell certain profitable operations to obtain sufficient liquidity to fund our operations through the chapter 11 period. The Company may not be able to obtain confirmation of its chapter 11 plan after development and when it submits it for Bankruptcy Court approval. In order to successfully emerge from chapter 11 bankruptcy protection as a viable entity, we believe that we must develop, and obtain requisite court and creditor approval of a viable chapter 11 plan of reorganization (the “Plan”). This process requires us to meet certain statutory requirements with respect to adequacy of disclosure with respect to the Plan, soliciting and obtaining creditor acceptances of the Plan, and fulfilling other statutory conditions for confirmation. We may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm the Plan. Even if the requisite acceptances of the Plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm the Plan. A dissenting holder of a claim against us may challenge the balloting procedures and results as not being in compliance with the Bankruptcy Code. Even if the Bankruptcy Court determined that the balloting procedures and results were appropriate, the Bankruptcy Court could still decline to confirm the Plan if it found that any of the statutory requirements for confirmation had not been met, including that the terms of the Plan are fair and equitable to non-accepting classes. Section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code sets forth the requirements for confirmation and requires, among other things, a finding by the Bankruptcy Court that (i) the Plan “does not unfairly discriminate” and is “fair and equitable” with respect to any non-accepting classes, (ii) confirmation of the Plan is not likely to be followed by a liquidation or a need for further financial reorganization and (iii) the value of distributions to non-accepting holders of claims within a particular class under the Plan will not be less than the value of distributions such holders would receive if we were to be liquidated under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. The Bankruptcy Court may determine that the Plan does not satisfy one or more of these requirements, in which case it would not be confirmable by the Bankruptcy Court. If the Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our businesses and what, if any, distributions to holders of claims against us would ultimately receive with respect to their claims. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, it is possible that we would have to liquidate our assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if we were to emerge as a viable, reorganized entity. We may not accomplish the objectives of our restructuring initiatives and workforce realignments. We announced a restructuring plan that we anticipate to be completed in 2008. The restructuring plan is expected to impact over 50% of our worldwide operations either through product movement or facility closures. Cash costs for the restructuring plan are expected to be approximately $62 million in 2007, and $35 million in 2008. In 2007, estimated capital expenditures relating to the restructuring plan are expected to be approximately $10 million. The remaining costs will relate primarily to employee severance, capital investment, facility closure and product move costs. As part of this initiative, we have identified certain key actions that must be accomplished to achieve our projected cost savings: • Our customers, as industry practice, must approve the movement of the production of their parts along with prequalifying (PPAP) of the production lines at the new production facilities; • Our customers must agree that these cost reduction actions are being made to meet our previously agreed to price reduction commitments; 25 Table of Contents • The representatives of our affected employees must support the streamlining and moving of operations in a timely manner in order that we meet the cost reduction objectives in the planned time period; and • We must execute this initiative in a reasonable time period. As part of our announced operational restructuring plans, we have reduced our indirect workforce by 510 individuals. The rationale for this workforce reduction is to more appropriately align our indirect workforce with the current sales volumes. Any failure to obtain substantial completion of any of these restructuring plans may result in us not reaching a sufficient profitability level to enable us to emerge from chapter 11 or continue as a going concern. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2006, as a result of several material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Descriptions of the material weaknesses are included in Item 9A, “Control and Procedures”, in this Form 10-K. As a result of these material weaknesses, we performed additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. However, the material weaknesses could result in a misstatement of substantially all accounts and disclosures, which would result in a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Errors in our financial statements could require a restatement or prevent us from timely filing our periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. While we have taken and continue to take actions to remediate the material weaknesses, we cannot be certain that any remedial measures we have taken or plan to take will be effective in remedying all identified deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting or result in the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Our inability to remediate the material weaknesses or any additional material weaknesses that may be identified in the future could, among other things, cause us to fail to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC and require us to incur additional costs and divert management resources. Additionally, the effectiveness of our or any system of disclosure controls and procedures is subject to inherent limitations, and therefore we cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure controls and procedures will prevent or detect future errors or fraud in connection with our financial statements. Our Class A common stock has been delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market which has made our stock significantly less liquid and may affect its value. Prior to November 8, 2006, our Class A common stock was listed on the Nasdaq Global Market (formerly known as the Nasdaq National Market). Effective November 8, 2006, our Class A common stock was delisted as a result of our filing for protection under the Bankruptcy Code on October 30, 2006. Our Class A common stock is currently being traded over-the-counter, more commonly known as OTC. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions in securities traded on the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market (together “Nasdaq-Listed Stocks”). Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than Nasdaq-Listed Stocks. Accordingly, our Class A common stock is less liquid and is likely to be more volatile than Nasdaq-Listed Stocks. The price of our Class A common stock is currently electronically displayed on the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. However, if we lose sufficient market maker support for display on the OTCBB, we must have our price published by the National Quotations Bureau LLP in a paper publication known as the “Pink Sheets.” The marketability of our stock will be even more limited if our price must be published on the “Pink Sheets.” 26 Table of Contents We are dependent on our largest customers and on selected vehicle programs. We are dependent on Ford, Volkswagen, GM and DCX as our largest customers. Our revenues from Ford, Volkswagen, GM and DCX represented approximately 22%, 10%, 9%, and 8% , respectively, of our revenues for 2006. The loss of Ford, Volkswagen, GM and DCX or any other significant customer could have a material adverse effect on us. The contracts we typically enter into with many of our customers, including Ford, Volkswagen, GM and DCX, provide for supplying the customers’ requirements for a particular model, rather than for manufacturing a specific quantity of products. Such contracts range from one year to the life of the platform or model, usually three to seven years, and do not require the purchase by the customer of any minimum number of parts. Therefore, the loss of any one of such customers or a significant reduction in demand for certain other key models or a group of related models sold by any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our existing and future revenues and net income. In 2006, two of our key customers, General Motors and Ford, lost market share in North America above historical levels and, as a result, significantly reduced their production volumes. From time to time, we are involved in product liability and pricing claims with certain of our significant customers. As a result of these claims, it is possible that our relationship with these customers could be adversely affected. The current financial condition of the automotive industry in the United States could have a negative impact on our ability to finance our operations. Several of our key North American customers face significant business challenges due to increased competitive conditions and recent changes in consumer demand. In operating our business, we depend on the ability of our customers to timely pay the amounts we have billed them for tools and products. Any disruption in our customers’ ability to pay us in a timely manner because of financial difficulty or otherwise would have a negative impact on our ability to finance our operations. In addition, because of the challenging conditions within the U.S. automotive industry, many automotive suppliers have filed for bankruptcy. In light of these conditions, our suppliers could impose restrictive payment terms on us that would have a negative impact on our ability to finance our operations. Our inability to compete effectively in the highly competitive automotive supply industry could result in the loss of customers, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. The automotive component supply industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are companies, or divisions or subsidiaries of companies, that are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, with respect to certain of our products, we compete with divisions of our OEM customers. There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete successfully with the products of these other companies, which could result in the loss of customers and, as a result, decreased revenues and profitability. We principally compete for new business both at the beginning of the development of new models and upon the redesign of existing models by our major customers. New model development generally begins two to five years prior to the marketing of such models to the public. The failure to obtain new business on new models or to retain or increase business on redesigned existing models could adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, as a result of the relatively long lead times required for many of our complex structural components, it may be difficult in the short-term for us to obtain new sales to replace any unexpected decline in the sale of existing products. We may incur significant expense in preparing to meet anticipated customer requirements which may not be recovered. In the last three fiscal years, we have experienced declining gross margin, and we may not succeed in returning to historical gross margin levels. Our gross margin has declined in each of the last three fiscal years from 12.2% in 2003, 11.1% in 2004, and 11.0% in 2005, to 4.3% in 2006. These declines were a result of a number of factors including declines in North American OEMs automotive production levels from previous levels resulting in lower fixed cost absorption, and increased raw material costs that could not be passed along fully to our customers. We 27 Table of Contents cannot assure you that our gross margin will improve or return to prior historical levels, and that any further reduction in customer demand for the products that we supply would not have an further adverse effect on our gross margin. A lack of improvement in our future gross margin levels would harm our financial condition and adversely impact our business. If we are unable to obtain our raw materials at favorable prices, it could adversely impact our financial condition. Numerous raw materials are used in the manufacture of our products. Our principal raw materials include (1) coil steel and resin in mechanism production, (2) metal wire and resin in cable production and (3) glass in window systems. The types of steel we purchase include hot and cold rolled, galvanized, organically coated and aluminized steel. Overall, steel accounted for the most significant component of our raw material costs in 2006 and 2005. Steel prices have been volatile over the last few years. Additionally, the prices of aluminum and resin have substantially increased. These raw materials cost increases had negatively impact our gross profit in 2004, 2005 and 2006. To the extent we are not able to pass on fully increased steel and other raw material costs to our customers in a timely fashion or otherwise able to offset these increased operating costs, our business, results of operations and financial condition will continue to be adversely affected. Moreover, we may be materially and adversely affected by the failure of our suppliers to perform as expected. Our gross margin and profitability will be adversely affected by the inability to reduce costs or increase prices. There is substantial continuing pressure from the major OEMs to reduce costs, including the cost of products purchased from outside suppliers. In addition, our business has a substantial fixed cost base. Therefore, our profitability is dependent, in part, on our ability to spread fixed production costs over increasing product sales. If we are unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset price reductions and any reduction in consumer demand for automobiles resulting in decreased sales, our gross margin and profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, our customers often times require engineering, design or production changes. In some circumstances, we may not be able to achieve price increases in amounts sufficient to cover the costs of these changes. Cyclicality and seasonality in the automotive, recreation and specialty vehicle markets could adversely affect our revenues and net income. The automotive, recreation and specialty vehicle markets are highly cyclical and both markets are dependent on general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending preferences and the attractiveness of incentives offered by OEMs, if any. In addition, automotive production and sales can be affected by labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. Economic factors adversely affecting automotive production and consumer spending could adversely impact our revenues and net income. The volume of automotive production in North America, Europe and the rest of the world has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from year to year, and such fluctuations give rise to fluctuations in demand for our products. The weakness in the North American OEMs automotive market has adversely affected our operating results in 2006, and the weakness is expected to continue for some time. In addition, because we have significant fixed production costs, relatively modest declines in our customers’ production levels can have a significant adverse impact on our profitability. Our business is also somewhat seasonal. We typically experience decreased revenues and operating income during the third calendar quarter of each year due to the impact of scheduled OEM plant shutdowns in July and August for vacations and new model changeovers. We may incur restructuring and asset impairment charges that would reduce our earnings. During the last several years, we have evaluated our worldwide manufacturing capacity utilization and opportunities for cost savings in light of conditions in the North American and European automotive and recreational vehicle markets. As a result of these evaluations, we have taken several actions including closing certain facilities, combining facilities, reducing and consolidating certain support activities and disposing of certain business units. We have recorded restructuring charges and charges related to discontinued operations as a result of these actions over the last several years. For example, we recorded an asset impairment charge for the total amount of the Control Systems reporting unit recorded 28 Table of Contents goodwill of approximately $636.9 million in 2006. Our reported earnings will be reduced in the event we incur additional charges in the future as a result of the current and any additional restructuring activities undertaken by us. We are subject to certain risks associated with our foreign operations that could harm our revenues and profitability. We have significant operations in Europe, Canada, Asia and Latin America. Certain risks are inherent in international operations, including: • difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; • tax rates in certain foreign countries may exceed those in the United States and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; • general economic conditions, political unrest and terrorist attacks against American interests in countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries; • exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions; • difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; and • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will be dependent, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or our business, results of operations and financial condition as a whole. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results. We generate a significant portion of our revenues and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported sales and earnings from our international operations will be reduced because the applicable local currency will be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. The strengthening of the foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar had a positive impact on our 2006 revenues of approximately $31.0 million. Our business may be disrupted significantly by work stoppages and other labor matters. Many OEMs and their suppliers have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by OEMs or their suppliers could result in slow-downs or closures of assembly plants where our products are included in assembled vehicles. In the event that one or more of our customers experiences a material work stoppage, such work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business. As of December 31, 2006, a substantial number of our employees were unionized. We have collective bargaining agreements with several unions including the United Auto Workers, the Canadian Auto Workers, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace 29 Table of Contents Workers. Virtually all of our unionized facilities in the United States and Canada have separate local contracts with the union which represents the workers employed there, with each such contract having an expiration date independent of other labor contracts. The majority of our non U.S. and Canadian employees are members of industrial trade union organizations and confederations within their respective countries. Many of these organizations and confederations operate under national contracts which are not specific to any one employer. As a result, we may encounter strikes, further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operations or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. Our operating results may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety requirements. We are required to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and occupational health and safety, including laws regulating the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into soil, air or water; and the health and safety of our colleagues. We are also required to obtain and comply with environmental permits for certain operations. We cannot assure you that we are at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with the requirements, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In some instances, such a fine or sanction could be material. In addition, we have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. Environmental requirements may become more stringent over time and we cannot assure you that we will not incur material environmental costs or liabilities in the future. We are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. Under these laws, we could be held liable for costs and damages relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party sites to which these facilities sent wastes. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from any of our current or former facilities or another location where we have disposed of wastes, we may be held liable for the contamination, and the amount of such liability could be material. We are currently conducting a cleanup of contamination at certain facilities in Germany. We are monitoring environmental contamination at certain facilities in North America. We have also been named a potentially responsible party for cleanup costs at two “Superfund” cleanup sites. MDEQ has filed a claim in connection with our Bankruptcy filing for $9.3 million relating to past response costs for the Mancelona groundwater contamination. Previously, we had not received any notice from MDEQ concerning such claim. We intend to vigorously object to this bankruptcy claim, as we were not responsible for the contamination. We believe that we will be successful, but no guarantee as to the ultimate outcome can be given. We have established accounting reserves for these contamination liabilities, but we cannot assure you that our liabilities will not exceed our reserves. We may be adversely affected by product liability exposure claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the failure of our products to perform to specifications results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, bodily injury and/or death. We cannot assure you that we will not incur significant costs to defend these claims or that we will not experience any material product liability losses in the future. In addition, if any Dura-designed products are, or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall involving those products. Each OEM has its own policy regarding product recalls and other product liability actions relating to its suppliers. However, as suppliers become more integrally involved in the vehicle design process and assume more vehicle assembly functions, OEMs are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with product recalls, product liability or warranty claims. We cannot assure you that the future costs associated with providing product warranties will not be material. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in any product recall may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, OEMs are also increasingly requiring their outside suppliers to guarantee or warrant their products and bear the costs of repair and replacement of such products under new vehicle warranties. Depending on the terms under which we supply products to an OEM, an OEM may hold us responsible for some or all of the repair 30 Table of Contents or replacement costs of defective products under new vehicle warranties, when the product supplied did not perform as represented. Over the past five years, we have been involved in a number of product warranty matters. In the aggregate, we incurred charges of $8.4 million, $2.8 million and $2.1 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, in connection with product warranty matters. We carry insurance for certain legal matters including product liability; however, we do not carry insurance for warranty or recall matters, as the cost and availability for such insurance, in the opinion of management, is cost prohibitive or not available. We have established reserves for matters that are probable and estimable in amounts management believes are adequate to cover reasonable adverse judgments not covered by insurance; however, we cannot assure you that these reserves will be adequate to cover all warranty matters that could possibly arise. The outcome of the various legal actions and claims that are discussed above or other legal actions and claims that are incidental to our business may have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Technological and regulatory changes may adversely affect us. Changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements or competitive technologies may render certain of our products obsolete. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and regulatory standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products successfully on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the technological advances that may be necessary for us to remain competitive or that certain of our products will not become obsolete. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. To service our trade creditors and meet our other liquidity needs, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments to our trade creditors and to fund planned capital expenditures and other working capital requirements will depend on our ability to generate cash from our operations, and from any sale of operations, in the future. We did not generate sufficient cash from operations in 2006 to fund our operations. This condition, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our trade creditors and to fund our other liquidity needs. Operating under the Bankruptcy Code may restrict our ability to pursue business strategies. The Bankruptcy Code limits our ability, among other things, to: • Incur additional indebtedness; • Pay dividends, repurchase our capital stock or make certain other restricted payments or investments; • Make investments; • Sell assets; • Consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • Create liens; 31 Table of Contents • Limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and • Adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 