Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common shares and related derivative securities involves significant risks. You should carefully consider the risks described in this Report before making an investment decision. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, you may lose all or part of your investment. Some factors in this section are forward-looking statements. Our significant losses and negative cash flow raise questions about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have suffered recurring losses from operations resulting in an accumulated deficit of $184,490,000, and a cash balance of $4,695,000 at December 31, 2010. Additionally, we experienced $15,172,000 in negative cash flows from operations during the year ended December 31, 2010. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain revenue growth, profitability, or positive cash flow on either a quarterly or annual basis or that profitability, if achieved, will be sustained. No adjustments have been made to the financial statements that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability, we may not be financially viable in the future and may have to curtail, suspend, or cease operations, restructure existing operations to attempt to ensure future viability, or pursue other alternatives such as filing for bankruptcy, pursuing dissolution and liquidation or seeking to merge with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Because of our recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations, the audit report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 contains an explanatory paragraph stating that the independent auditor has substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may not be able to raise sufficient capital to finance our operations. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $4.7 million in cash and cash equivalents. As a result of our deferral of the end date under our Share Subscription Agreement with Canon until May 17, 2011, we will need to raise additional capital in the next few months. Even if we are able to raise capital in the immediate future, if our transaction with Canon does not close prior to the end date, or at all, we will again need to raise capital. Even if our transaction with Canon closes, we will likely need to raise capital to fund our expanding operations and planned nano lithium titanate plant in China. With respect to any such capital raise, we may be unable to raise the amount of capital needed and may be forced to pay an extremely high price for capital. Factor s affecting the availability and price of capital may include the following: · market factors affecting the availability and cost of capital generally, including increases or decreases in major stock market indexes, the stability of the banking and investment banking systems and general economic stability or instability; · the price, volatility and trading volume of our common shares; · our financial results, particularly the amount of revenue we are generating from product sales; · the market's perception of our ability to execute our business plan and any specific projects identified as uses of proceeds; · our ownership structure and recent or anticipated dilution; · the amount of our capital needs; · the market's perception of our company and companies in our line of business; and · the economics of projects being pursued. If we are unable to raise required capital we may be forced to discontinue operations. We may continue to experience significant losses from operations. We have experienced a net loss in every fiscal year since our inception. Our loss from operations was $20.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. We may never be profitable in the future. Even if we are profitable in one or more future years, subsequent developments in the economy, our industry, customer base, business or cost structure, or an event such as significant litigation or a significant transaction, may cause us to again experience losses. 18 If we are unable to raise required capital we may be forced to discontinue operations. The amendment to the Share Subscription Agreement with Canon includes limits on our ability to raise capital. We entered into an amendment to the Share Subscription Agreement with Canon, or the SSA Amendment, extending the end date until May 17, 2011. The end date is the date after which either party can terminate the Share Subscription Agreement without cause. It is likely that the share issuance to Canon will not close until the end date, if at all. As a result of the expected delay in closing, we must raise additional working capital to fund our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital is limited by the terms of the SSA Amendment, in addition to market factors. Under the terms of the SSA Amendment, we are able to raise additional capital from third parties prior to May 1, 2011 through issuances of our common shares and warrants to purchase common shares subject to the following limitations: · the aggregate number of common shares, together with the number of common shares issuable upon the exercise of any warrants, must be less than 20% of our outstanding common shares; and · if any issuance is made at a price (taking into account the implied value of any warrants issued in connection with such issuance) lower than $1.5528, we may not raise more than $7.5 million in capital. Such limitations may harm our ability to raise capital, which may limit our ability to implement our business plan or continue operations. If the price floor limitation is exceeded, Canon will have the right to terminate the Share Subscription Agreement at any time, which may decrease the likelihood that the Canon share issuance will close. The share issuance to Canon may not close. The amended Share Subscription Agreement gives Canon the right to terminate the Share Subscription Agreement upon certain conditions, including if we make any issuance at a price (taking into account the implied value of any warrants issued in connection with such issuance) lower than $1.55. In addition, Canon has the right to not close if certain condition precedents under the agreement are not satisfied or if we are otherwise in breach of the Share Subscription Agreement. Even if all conditions to close are satisfied and Canon has no right to terminate the Share Subscription Agreement or to decline to close, Canon may fail to close in breach of the Share Subscription Agreement. In such event, although we could pursue legal remedi es, including damages, it is unlikely we could compel Canon to close. If Canon fails to close under the Share Subscription Agreement for any reason, we will have a near term need to raise capital in order to continue our operations. Even if we close the transaction with Canon, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transaction. We have identified various potential benefits, in addition to the receipt of capital, from the share issuance to Canon. Examples include the possibility that YTE would be a significant long-term customer for us and that, together with or as a result of our relationship with Canon or YTE, we would have better access to the Chinese markets than we do today. We may not realize benefits for various reasons, including without limitation, the following: · After the close of the Canon transaction, YTE may be unable to use our nano lithium titanate or battery technology in its products and, as a result, may not purchase products from us long term; · Even if YTE is able to integrate our nano lithium titanate and/or technology into its products, it may not be able to achieve significant sales with its products; · We may be unable to continue to reach agreement with YTE on the pricing of any products or services we supply them or may, as a result of market or other circumstances, be compelled to agree to prices that are not consistent with profitability; 19 · As a result of the terms of the Conditional Supply and Technology Licensing Agreement, subsequent agreements or gaps in our intellectual property protection, Canon or YTE may be able to exploit our technology under circumstances in which we do not receive significant economic benefits; · Canon may not be able to, or exert significant efforts to, provide us access to the Chinese markets, particularly if our products could compete with products produced by YTE. If one or more of these risks materializes in a significant manner, we may not experience the anticipated benefits from our relationship with Canon or YTE, which may harm our business and operations. If Canon acquires a 51% ownership interest, we will face risks associated with having a majority shareholder. If the Canon funding occurs they will own a majority of our outstanding common shares. This presents certain risks to us, including the following: · Certain of our existing or potential customers or suppliers may be reluctant to do business with a company controlled by a single shareholder, or a China-based affiliate of a battery manufacturer, and, as a result, may cancel or choose not to make, orders. · We may experience significant turnover in key management, technical or other employees; · Because of the physical distance, cultural differences and language difference between the United States and China, we may experience conflicts or inefficiencies in Board-management communication, management-employee communication, strategy formation and other parts of our business; this risk may be exacerbated by the fact that most of the nominees proposed by Canon do not speak English, and none of our current management speaks Mandarin Chinese; · We have agreed to potentially spend a portion, which may be substantial, of the proceeds from the Canon transaction on a nano lithium titanate manufacturing plant in China, this project may divert management attention and consume a significant amount of capital; and · As a majority shareholder, Canon may be able to influence our Board of Directors to enter into transactions with Canon affiliates, or third parties, that are more favorable to such Canon affiliate or third party than would be negotiated by an independent Board of Directors. If one or more of these risks, or other risks, materializes, our business will be harmed, and it may be harmed materially. If the share issuance to Canon closes, we would lose certain net operating loss carryforwards, which may increase our tax burden if we become profitable in the future. We currently have approximately $U.S.144.1 million in U.S. net operating loss carryforwards and approximately $Cdn.6.5 million in Canadian equivalents to net operating loss carryforwards. Our stock issuance to Canon would constitute a change of control which would result in a substantial reduction in the value of, and limits on the availability of any net operating loss carryforwards. We anticipate that the available U.S. net operating loss carryforwards may be significantly limited and the Canadian equivalents will be forfeited in total. If we are profitable in the future, the loss of such net operating loss carryforwards will lead to higher income taxes than we would have paid absent the change of control. Proterra, Inc. may have investment funding issues that might prohibit them from purchasing additional battery modules from us on a timely basis or at all. Proterra Inc. is currently our sole significant customer in the mass transit market. On January 14, 2011 the Securities and Exchange Commission obtained a court order freezing the assets of the Michael Kenwood Group and its related entity MK Energy + Infrastructure, which is Proterra’s lead equity investor. Without further funding from this investor, Proterra may not have funds sufficient to continue to purchase battery modules from us in the near term. Proterra is currently seeking capital from other sources. If Proterra is unable to obtain capital from MK Energy or another source, we will not be able to continue to ship Proterra battery modules and may lose a significant source of revenue an d opportunity to establish market credibility. 20 Sherwin-Williams may elect not to, or be unable to, finance and continue AlSher Titania LLC or a related enterprise using our pigment production technology; in this case, we would not receive any revenues or royalties related to such technology. We transferred to Sherwin-Williams our 70% interest in AlSher Titania LLC, which holds an exclusive license to use our intellectual property relating to the Altairnano Hydrochloride Process for the production of pigments and similar powders or materials. Under agreements related to the transfer, we received no upfront consideration, and our right to receive a percentage of revenue over time is capped at $3,000,000 in the aggregate. Our receipt of any revenue under our agreement is tied to Sherwin-Williams or AlSher continuing to develop and exploit the technology, over which we have no control or influence. It is uncertain that we will receive any proceeds related to our pigment technology, and it is unlikely that total revenues will be significant in the long term.< /font> We may not realize anticipated benefits from our agreement with Inversiones Energeticas. We recently entered into a purchase contract with Inversiones Energeticas, S.A. de C.V., or INE, related to the purchase of a turn-key 10 Megawatt ALTI-ESS advanced battery system for $18 million. Projected revenue under this agreement represents a substantial portion of our expected revenue in 2011. It is possible that the transactions contemplated by such agreement will not be completed, or that we will not realize the anticipated benefits, for various reasons, including the following: · INE is not obligated to issue the initiation order if the conditions precedent to the initiation order including performance bonds, are not met; · the costs of supplying the ALTI-ESS on a turn-key basis may exceed our projections, and in such event, imposing such increased costs on INE is precluded by the contract; · INE may terminate the contract for breach, including a failure to maintain performance and warranty bonds, failure to deliver products and services in conformance with a strict timeline and failure to meet specific performance standards; · INE may terminate the contract without cause upon thirty days notice, and we will be entitled only to equitable compensation for our efforts (rather than the full benefits of the contract); and · we have provide warranties and indemnified INE with respect to certain matters, which provisions may lead to substantial post-completion expenses related to the agreement. If any of these risks, or other risks, materializes, we may not realize expected benefits associated with the INE contract and may experience substantial net costs and liabilities. We may be obligated to pay a royalty on sales into the stationary power market. In a joint development agreement we entered into in 2007 to develop a collection of advanced lithium based battery systems to provide frequency regulation and other services to the electricity generations and transmission markets, we granted a royalty of 5% of the gross revenue we realize from the sale of certain battery systems through July 20, 2012. It is uncertain whether the battery systems we are marketing are within the scope of the royalty provisions. As we begin generating revenue from the sale of large scale stationary batteries for use in connection with electrical transmission and regulation, there is a reasonable likelihood that we will be required to pay this royalty. This would harm our gross margins on such sales. We may also incur litigation expenses, and management a ttention may be diverted from the operation of our business. 21 We depend upon several sole-source and limited-source third-party suppliers. We rely on certain suppliers as the sole-source, or as a primary source, of certain services, raw materials and other components of our products. We do not yet have long-term supply or service agreements engaged with any such suppliers. As a result, the providers of such services and components could terminate or alter the terms of service or supply with little or no advance notice. If our arrangements with any sole-source supplier were terminated, or if such a supplier failed to provide essential services or deliver essential components on a timely basis, failed to meet our product specifications and/or quality standards, or introduced unacceptable price increases, our production schedule would be delayed, possibly by as long as six months. Any such delay in our productio n schedule would result in delayed product delivery and may also result in additional production costs, customer losses and litigation. An area in which our dependence upon a limited number of sources creates significant vulnerability is the manufacturing of our nano lithium titanate cells. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2010, we relied upon a single supplier of nano lithium titanate cells. We experienced significant quality issues with this supplier in early 2010 and continue to have quality issues with this supplier. In late 2010, we completed validation for a second supplier and began receiving shipments from that second supplier without any quality issues to date. Our nano lithium titanate battery cells are the building blocks of all of our products (other than our nano lithium titanate powder). If we continue to experience quality issues wi th our initial supplier, or begin to experience them with our second supplier, we may be unable to meet our deadlines, or quality specifications, with respect to existing or future orders. This would harm our reputation and our ability to grow our business. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we believe that they will continue to fluctuate in the future, due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. If in future periods our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors or analysts who choose to follow our company, the price of our common shares may fall. Factors that may affect our operating results include the following: · fluctuations in the size, quantity and timing of customer orders; · timing of delivery of our services and products; · additions of new customers or losses of existing customers; · positive or negative business or financial developments announced by us or our key customers; · our ability to commercialize and obtain orders for products we are developing; · costs associated with developing our manufacturing capabilities; · the retention of our key employees; · new product announcements or introductions by our competitors or potential competitors; · the effect of variations in the market price of our common shares on our equity-based compensation expenses; · disruptions in the supply of raw materials or components used in the manufacture of our products; · the pace of adoption of regulation facilitating our ability to sell our products in our target markets; · technology and intellectual property issues associated with our products; · general political, social, geopolitical and economic trends and events; and · availability of components sourced from Korea if tensions between North Korea and South Korea erupt into a greater military conflict. 22 Our patents and other protective measures may not adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property. We regard our intellectual property, particularly our proprietary rights in our nano lithium titanate technology, as critical to our success. We have received various patents, and filed other patent applications, for various applications and aspects of our nano lithium titanate technology and other intellectual property. Such patents and agreements and various other measures we take to protect our intellectual property from use by others may not be effective for various reasons, including the following: · Our pending patent applications may not be granted for various reasons, including the existence of conflicting patents or defects in our applications, if there was in existence relevant prior art or the invention was deemed by the examiner to be obvious to a person skilled in the art whether or not there were other existing patents. Risks associated with patent applications are enhanced because patent applications of others remain confidential for a period of approximately 18 months after filing; as a result, our belief that we are the first creator of an invention or the first to patent it may prove incorrect, as information related to conflicting patents is first published or first brought to our attention; · The patents we have been granted may be challenged, invalidated, narrowed or circumvented because of the pre-existence of similar patented or unpatented intellectual property rights or for other reasons; · The costs associated with enforcing patents, confidentiality and invention agreements or other intellectual property rights may make aggressive enforcement cost prohibitive; · We have not filed for patent protection in many countries in which we are currently selling produce or seek to sell product; as a result, we may be unable to prevent competitors in such markets from selling infringing products; · Even if we enforce our rights aggressively, injunctions, fines and other penalties may be insufficient to deter violations of our intellectual property rights; and · Other persons may independently develop proprietary information and techniques that, although functionally equivalent or superior to our intellectual proprietary information and techniques, do not breach proprietary rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary intellectual property rights or gain a competitive advantage from such rights could harm our ability to generate revenues and, as a result, our business and operations. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time consuming and involve adverse publicity and adverse results. Competitors or others may infringe our patents. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file patent infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. Interference proceedings brought by the United States Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications. Litigation or interference proceedings may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management. Because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure. In addition, during the course of this litigation (even if ultimately successful), there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common shares. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover that technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. 23 We may not prevail in any litigation or interference proceeding in which we are involved. Even if we do prevail, these proceedings can be expensive, result in adverse publicity and distract our management. Other parties may bring intellectual property infringement claims against us, which would be time-consuming and expensive to defend, and if any of our products or processes is found to be infringing, we may not be able to procure licenses to use patents necessary to our business at reasonable terms, if at all. Our success depends in part on avoiding the infringement of other parties’ patents and proprietary rights. We may inadvertently infringe existing third-party patents or third-party patents issued on existing patent applications. Third party holders of such patents or patent applications could bring claims against us that, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if resolved against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Under some circumstances in the United States, these damages could be triple the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing or licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or damages paid to the patent holder. In addition, we have, and may be required to, make representations as to our right to supply and/or license intellectual property and to our compliance with laws. Such representations are usually supported by indemnification provisions requiring us to defend our customers and otherwise make them whole if we license or supply products that infringe on third party technologies o r violate government regulations. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we and our customers, development partners and licensees could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of products based on our technologies in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Such a license may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, particularly if the third party is developing or marketing a product competitive with products based on our technologies. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Any successful infringement action brought against us may also adversely affect marketing of products based on our technologies in other markets not covered by the infringement action. Furthermore, we may suffer adverse consequences from a successful infringement action against us even if the action is subsequently reversed on appeal, nullified through another action or resolved by settlement with the patent holder. As a result, any infringement action against us would likely harm our competitive position, be costly and require significant time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, contractors, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. Parties to the confidentiality agreements may have such agreements declared unenforceable or, even if the agreements are enforceable, may breach such agreements. Remedies available in connection with the breach of such agreements may not be adequate, or enforcing such agreement may be cost prohibitive. Courts outside the United States may be less wil ling to protect trade secrets. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets or independently develop processes or products that are similar or identical to our trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection would harm our competitive business position. 24 If we are sued on a product liability claim, our insurance policies may not be sufficient. Although we maintain general liability insurance and product liability insurance, our insurance may not cover all potential types of product liability claims to which manufacturers are exposed or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business, including our relationships with current customers and our ability to attract and retain new customers. In addition, if the liability were substantial relative to the size of our business, any uncovered liability could harm our liquidity and ability to continue as a going concern. Laws regulating the manufacture or transportation of batteries may be enacted which could result in a delay in the production of our batteries or the imposition of additional costs that could harm our ability to be profitable. At the present time, international, federal, state and local laws do not directly regulate the storage, use and disposal of the component parts of our batteries. However, laws and regulations may be enacted in the future which could impose environmental, health and safety controls on the storage, use and disposal of certain chemicals and metals used in the manufacture of lithium and lithium-ion batteries. Satisfying any future laws or regulations could require significant time and resources from our technical staff, including those related to possible redesign which may result in substantial expenditures and delays in the production of our product, all of which could harm our business and reduce our future profitability. The transportation of lithium and lithium-ion batteries is regulated both domestically and internationally. Under recently revised United Nations recommendations and as adopted by the International Air Transport Association, our batteries and battery systems currently fall within the level such that they are not exempt and require a Class 9 designation for transportation. The revised United Nations recommendations and other recommendations are not U.S. law until such time as they are incorporated into the Hazardous Material Regulations of the U.S. Department of Transportation, or DOT. However, DOT has proposed new regulations harmonizing with the U.N. guidelines and is reviewing other proposed changes under consideration for inclusion. At present it is not known if or when the propos ed regulations would be adopted by the United States. Although we fall under the equivalency levels for the United States and comply with all safety packaging requirements worldwide, future DOT or IATA approval process could require significant time and resources from out technical staff and, if redesign were necessary, could delay the introduction of new products. If our warranty expense estimates differ materially from our actual claims, or if we are unable to estimate future warranty expense for new products, our business and financial results could be harmed. Our warranty for our products ranges from one to three years from the date of sale, depending on the type of product and its application. We expect that in the future some of our warranties may extend for longer periods. Because our supply arrangements are negotiated, the scope of our product warranties differ substantially depending upon the product, the purchaser and the intended use; however, we have granted and may grant broad warranties, addressing such issues as leakage, cycle life and decline in power. We have a limited product history on which to base our warranty estimates. Because of the limited operating history of our batteries and battery systems, our management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including anticipated rate of warran ty claims, the durability and reliability of our products, and service delivery costs. Our assumptions could prove to be materially different from the actual performance of our batteries and battery systems, which could cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products in the future and may exceed expected levels against which we have reserved. If our estimates prove incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses from the time we realize our estimates are incorrect and also face a significant unplanned cash burden at the time our customers make a warranty claim, which could harm our operating results. 25 In addition, with our new products and products that remain under development, we will be required to base our warranty estimates on historical experience of similar products, testing of our batteries under laboratory conditions and limited performance information learned during our development activities with the customer. As a result, actual warranty claims may be significantly different from our estimates and our financial results could vary significantly from period-to-period. Product liability or other claims could cause us to incur losses or damage our reputation. The risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity is inherent in the development, manufacturing and sale of batteries and battery system. Certain materials we use in our batteries, as well as our battery systems, could, if used improperly, cause injuries to others. Improperly charging or discharging our batteries could cause fires. Any accident involving our batteries or other products could decrease or even eliminate demand for our products. Because some of our batteries are designed to be used in electric and hybrid electric buses, and because vehicle accidents can cause injury to persons and damage to property, we are subject to a risk of claims for such injuries and damages. In addition, we could be harmed by adverse publicity resulting f rom problems or accidents caused by third party products that incorporate our batteries. We could even be harmed by problems or accidents involving competing battery systems, if the market viewed our batteries as being vulnerable to similar problems. Any such claims, loss of customers or reputation harm would harm our financial results and ability to continue as a going concern. A majority of our revenue has historically been generated from low-margin contract research and development services; if we cannot expand revenues from other products and services, our business will fail. Historically, a majority of our revenue has come from contract research and development services for businesses and government agencies. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, contract service revenues comprised 50%, 65% and 87% respectively, of our operating revenues. Contract services revenue is low margin, and is unlikely to grow at a rapid pace. In addition, a majority of our contract services revenue has historically been under contracts with, or related to, the U.S. military, which contracts we terminated and stopped bidding for in connection with the Share Subscription Agreement. Our business plan anticipates revenues from product sales and licensing, both of which have potential for higher margins than contract services and have potential for rapid growth, increasing in coming ye ars. If we are not successful in significantly expanding our revenues from licensing and product sales, or if we are forced to continue to accept low or negative margins in order to achieve revenue growth, we may fail to reach profitability in the future. Continuing adverse economic conditions could reduce, or delay demand for our products. Although improving compared to recent years, the financial markets and general economic conditions are still relatively weak in certain geographic markets worldwide. Our products are targeted primarily at large power producers worldwide bus manufacturers and other industrial parties. Due to declining revenues and concerns about liquidity, companies and government agencies in some of our target markets have reduced, delayed or eliminated many research and development initiatives, including those related to energy storage. This reduction or delay in development spending by targeted key customers is hindering our development and production efforts and will continue to do so until development spending increases from current depressed levels. The commercialization of many of our products is dependent upon the efforts of commercial partners and other third parties over which we have no or little control. The commercialization of our principal products requires the cooperation and efforts of commercial partners and customers. For example, because completion and testing of our large-scale stationary batteries for power suppliers requires input from utilities and connection to a power network, commercialization of such batteries can only be done in conjunction with a power or utility company. The commercialization of transportation and other applications of our technology are also dependent, in part, upon the expertise, resources and efforts of our commercial partners. This presents certain risks, including the following: 26 · we may not be able to enter into development, licensing, supply and other agreements with commercial partners with appropriate resources, technology and expertise on reasonable terms or at all; · our commercial partners may not place the same priority on a project as we do, may fail to honor contractual commitments, may not have the level of resources, expertise, market strength or other characteristics necessary for the success of the project, may dedicate only limited resources to, and/or may abandon, a development project for reasons, including reasons such as a shift in corporate focus, unrelated to its merits; · our commercial partners may be in the early stages of development and may not have sufficient liquidity to invest in joint development projects, expand their businesses and purchase our products as expected or honor contractual commitments; · our commercial partners may terminate joint testing, development or marketing projects on the merits of the projects for various reasons, including determinations that a project is not feasible, cost-effective or likely to lead to a marketable end product; · at various stages in the testing, development, marketing or production process, we may have disputes with our commercial partners, which may inhibit development, lead to an abandonment of the project or have other negative consequences; and · even if the commercialization and marketing of jointly developed products is successful, our revenue share may be limited and may not exceed our associated development and operating costs. As a result of the actions or omissions of our commercial partners, or our inability to identify and enter into suitable arrangements with qualified commercial partners, we may be unable to commercialize apparently viable products on a timely and cost-effective basis, or at all. Interest in our nano lithium titanate batteries is affected by energy supply and pricing, political events, popular consciousness and other factors over which we have no control. Currently, our marketing and development efforts for our batteries and battery materials are focused primarily on stationary power and transportation applications. In the transportation market, batteries containing our nano lithium titanate materials are designed to replace or supplement gasoline and diesel engines. In the stationary power applications, our batteries are designed to conserve and regulate the stable supply of electricity, including from renewable sources. The interest of our potential customers and business partners in our products and services is affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including: · economic conditions and capital financing and liquidity constraints; · short-term and long-term trends in the supply and price of natural gas, gasoline, diesel, coal and other fuels; · the anticipated or actual granting or elimination by governments of tax and other financial incentives favoring electric or hybrid electric vehicles and renewable energy production; · the ability of the various regulatory bodies to define the rules and procedures under which this new technology can be deployed into the electric grid; · the anticipated or actual funding, or elimination of funding, for programs that support renewable energy programs and electric grid improvements; · changes in public and investor interest for financial and/or environmental reasons, in supporting or adopting alternatives to gasoline and diesel for transportation and other purposes; · the overall economic environment and the availability of credit to assist customers in purchasing our large battery systems; · the expansion or contraction of private and public research and development budgets as a result of global and U.S. economic trends; and · the speed of incorporation of renewable energy generating sources into the electric grid. 27 Adverse trends in one or more of these factors may inhibit our ability to commercialize our products and expand revenues from our battery materials and batteries. Our nano lithium titanate battery materials and battery business is currently dependent upon a few customers and potential customers, which presents various risks. Our nano lithium titanate battery materials and battery business is dependent upon a few current or potential customers, including a small number of power producers, an affiliate of Canon and smaller companies developing electric or hybrid electric buses. In addition, many of these customers are, or are expected to be, development partners who are subsidizing the research and development of products for which they may be the sole, or one of a few, potential purchasers. As a result of the small number of potential customers and partners, our existing or potential customers and partners may have significant leverage on pricing terms, exclusivity terms and other economic and noneconomic terms. This may harm our attempts to sell products at prices that reflect desired gross margins. In addition, the decision by a single customer to abandon use or development of a product, budget cutbacks, funding reductions, liquidity shortages and other events may harm the ability of a single customer to continue to purchase products or continue development and may significantly harm both our financial results and the development track of one or more products. If we combine with other companies, we may be unable to successfully integrate our business, technology, management or other aspects of our business with the other party to the transaction. As evidenced by our signing the Share Subscription Agreement with Canon and related agreements with YTE, we routinely consider entering into acquisition, strategic or combination transactions with other companies for strategic and/or financial reasons. We do not have extensive experience in conducting diligence on, evaluating, purchasing, merging with, selling to or integrating new businesses or technologies with other entities. If we do succeed in closing a combination with another company, we will be exposed to a number of risks, including: · we may have difficulty integrating our assets, technologies, operations and personnel in connection with a business combination; · our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing, or being a part of, a geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; · we may find that the transaction does not further our business strategy or that the economic and strategic assumptions underlying the transaction have proved inaccurate; · we may encounter difficulty entering and competing in new product or geographic markets; · we may face business, product, structural or other limitations or prohibitions as our business becomes subject to the laws or customs of other jurisdictions; and · we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies relating to the integrated business or technology, such as intellectual property or employment matters. In addition, from time to time we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions, dispositions, mergers or other transactions that are not ultimately consummated. These negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, substantial out-of-pocket costs and, while such transactions are pending, limitations on the operation of our business (including negotiation of alternative business combinations and capital raising transactions). To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock in any such transactions, including options and warrants, existing stockholders would be diluted. Any of these issues will harm our business and financial condition. 28 We intend to expand our operations and increase our expenditures in an effort to grow our business. If we are unable to achieve or manage significant growth and expansion, or if our business does not grow as we expect, our operating results may suffer. During the past several years, we have increased our research and development expenditures in an attempt to accelerate the commercialization of certain products, particularly our nano lithium titanate batteries. Our business plan anticipates continued expenditure on development, manufacturing and other growth initiatives. We may fail to achieve significant growth despite such expenditures. If achieved, significant growth would place increased demands on our management, accounting systems, quality control and internal controls. We may be unable to expand associated resources and refine associated systems fast enough to keep pace with expansion, especially as we expand into multiple facilities at distant locations. If we fail to ensure that our management, control and other systems keep pace with growth, we may experience a decline in the effectiveness and focus of our management team, problems with timely or accurate reporting, issues with costs and quality controls and other problems associated with a failure to manage rapid growth, all of which would harm our results of operations. Our competitors have more resources than we do, and may be supported by more prominent partners, which may give them a competitive advantage. We have limited financial, personnel and other resources and, because of our early stage of development, have limited access to capital. We compete or may compete against entities that are much larger than we are, have more extensive resources than we do and have an established reputation and operating history. In addition, certain of our early stage competitors, including A123 Systems, are partnered with, associated with or supported by larger business or financial partners. This may increase their ability to raise capital, attract media attention, develop products and attract customers. Because of their size, resources, reputation and history (or that of their business and financial partners), certain of our competitors may be able to exploit acquisition, development and joint venture opportu nities more rapidly, easily or thoroughly than we can. In addition, potential customers may choose to do business with our more established competitors, without regard to the comparative quality of our products, because of their perception that our competitors are more stable, are more likely to complete various projects, are more likely to continue as a going concern and lend greater credibility to any joint venture. As manufacturing becomes a larger part of our operations, we will become exposed to accompanying risks and liabilities. In-house and outsourced manufacturing is becoming an increasingly significant part of our business. As a result, we expect to become increasingly subject to various risks associated with the manufacturing and supply of products, including the following: · If we fail to supply products in accordance with contractual terms, including terms related to time of delivery and performance specifications, we may be required to repair or replace defective products and may become liable for direct, special, consequential and other damages, even if manufacturing or delivery was outsourced; · Raw materials used in the manufacturing process, labor and other key inputs may become scarce and expensive, causing our costs to exceed cost projections and associated revenues; · Manufacturing processes typically involve large machinery, fuels and chemicals, any or all of which may lead to accidents involving bodily harm, destruction of facilities and environmental contamination and associated liabilities; · As our manufacturing operations expand, we expect that a significant portion of our manufacturing will be done overseas, either by third-party contractors or in a plant owned by the company. Any manufacturing done overseas presents risks associated with quality control, currency exchange rates, foreign laws and customs, timing and loss risks associated with overseas transportation and potential adverse changes in the political, legal and social environment in the host county; and · We have made, and may be required to make, representations as to our right to supply and/or license intellectual property and to our compliance with laws. Such representations are usually supported by indemnification provisions requiring us to defend our customers and otherwise make them whole if we license or supply products that infringe on third-party technologies or violate government regulations. 29 Any failure to adequately manage risks associated with the manufacture and supply of materials and products could lead to losses (or small gross profits) from that segment of our business and/or significant liabilities, which would harm our business, operations and financial condition. Our past and future operations may lead to substantial environmental liability. Virtually any prior or future use of our nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment technology is subject to federal, state and local environmental laws. Under such laws, we may be jointly and severally liable with prior property owners for the treatment, cleanup, remediation and/or removal of any hazardous substances discovered at any property we use. In addition, courts or government agencies may impose liability for, among other things, the improper release, discharge, storage, use, disposal or transportation of hazardous substances. If we incur any significant environmental liabilities, our ability to execute our business plan and our financial condition would be harmed. Certain of our experts and directors reside in Canada or Dubai and may be able to avoid civil liability. We are a Canadian corporation, and a majority of our directors reside outside the United States in Canada or the United Arab Emirates. As a result, investors may be unable to effect service of process upon such persons within the United States and may be unable to enforce court judgments against such persons predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. It is uncertain whether Canadian or Dubai courts would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or such directors, officers or experts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws or impose liability in original actions against us or our directors, officers or experts predicated upon U.S. securities laws. We are dependent on key personnel. Our continued success will depend, to a significant extent, on the services of our executive management team and certain key scientists and engineers. We do not have key man insurance on any of these individuals. Nor do we have agreements requiring any of our key personnel to remain with our company. The loss or unavailability of any or all of these individuals could harm our ability to execute our business plan, maintain important business relationships and complete certain product development initiatives, which would harm our business. We may issue substantial amounts of additional shares without stockholder approval. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of an unlimited number of common shares that may be issued without any action or approval by our stockholders. In addition, we have various stock option plans that have potential for diluting the ownership interests of our stockholders. The issuance of any additional common shares would further dilute the percentage ownership of our company held by existing stockholders. The market price of our common shares is highly volatile and may increase or decrease dramatically at any time. The market price of our common shares is highly volatile. Our stock price may change dramatically as the result of announcements of product developments, new products or innovations by us or our competitors, uncertainty regarding the viability of our technology or our product initiatives, significant customer contracts, significant litigation, our liquidity situation, revenues or losses, or other factors or events that would be expected to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 30 The market price for our common shares may be affected by various factors not directly related to our business or future prospects, including the following: · intentional manipulation of our stock price by existing or future shareholders or a reaction by investors to trends in our stock rather than the fundamentals of our business; · a single acquisition or disposition, or several related acquisitions or dispositions, of a large number of our shares, including by short sellers covering their position; · the interest of the market in our business sector, without regard to our financial condition, results of operations or business prospects; · positive or negative statements or projections about our company or our industry, by analysts, stock gurus and other persons; · the adoption of governmental regulations or government grant programs and similar developments in the United States or abroad that may enhance or detract from our ability to offer our products and services or affect our cost structure; and · economic and other external market factors, such as a general decline in market prices due to poor economic conditions, investor distrust or a financial crisis. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common shares, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common shares is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our common shares adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common shares would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial market, which in turn could cause the price or trading volume of our common shares to decline. We have never declared a cash dividend and do not intend to declare a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common shares. We currently intend to retain any future earnings, if any, for use in our business and, therefore, do not anticipate paying dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. We are subject to various regulatory regimes, and may be adversely affected by inquiries, investigations and allegations that we have not complied with governing rules and laws. In light of our status as a public company and our lines of business, we are subject to a variety of laws and regulatory regimes in addition to those applicable to all businesses generally. For example, we are subject to the reporting requirements applicable to Canadian and United States reporting issuers, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules of the NASDAQ Capital Market and certain state and provincial securities laws. We are also subject to state and federal environmental, health and safety laws, and rules governing department of defense contracts. Such laws and rules change frequently and are often complex. In connection with such laws, we are subject to periodic audits, inquiries and investigations. Any such audits, inquiries and investigations may divert considerable financial and human resources and adversely affect the execution of our business plan. Through such audits, inquiries and investigations, we or a regulator may determine that we are out of compliance with one or more governing rules or laws. Remedying such non-compliance diverts additional financial and human resources. In addition, in the future, we may be subject to a formal charge or determination that we have materially violated a governing law, rule or regulation. We may also be subject to lawsuits as a result of alleged violation of the securities laws or governing corporate laws. Any charge or allegation, and particularly any determination, that we had materially violated a governing law would harm our ability to enter into business relationships, recruit qualified officers and employees and raise capital. 31 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 