Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, prior to making a decision to invest in our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that we currently believe to be less significant may also adversely affect us. We are exposed to risks in our licensing business related to product and customer concentration. Currently, we generate a majority of our revenue in the home entertainment market, principally through the inclusion of SRS technology inside flat panel LCD and plasma televisions. We expect that the consumer home entertainment market will continue to account for a significant portion of our licensing revenues for the foreseeable future. Consumer spending on home entertainment products is subject to significant fluctuations, and there is significant price competition for such products. Retail prices for certain consumer electronics products that include our audio technology have decreased significantly, and we expect that this trend will continue for the foreseeable future. In addition, from time to time, certain of our OEM and semiconductor manufacturer customers may account for a significant portion of our revenues. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2010, Samsung accounted for approximately 38% of our consolidated revenues. These manufacturers could develop their own technologies or decide to exclude our audio rendering technology from their products altogether in an effort to reduce cost, our revenues and profitability could be adversely impacted. For example, during 2007, we were informed by Sony that they were no longer using our technology in the majority of their televisions. The loss of any key customer in the future could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. General economic conditions may reduce our revenues and harm our business. Our business is exposed to adverse changes in general economic conditions, because products that incorporate our technologies are entertainment-oriented and generally discretionary goods. The current slowdown or decline in U.S. and foreign economic growth has adversely affected consumer confidence, disposable income and spending. As a result, sales by our licensees of consumer electronics and other products incorporating our technologies may not grow as rapidly as in prior periods or may even decrease, which could adversely affect our licensing revenue. Our business is highly dependent on the consumer electronics market, which is characterized by short product life cycles, fluctuations in demand and seasonality, declining retail prices and is subject to risks related to product transitions. 10 Table of Contents The consumer electronics market is characterized by intense competition, rapidly evolving technology, and ever-changing consumer preferences. These factors result in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles and significant price competition. As a result, we may need to develop new products or technologies to integrate with the new products and technologies developed by our customers. If we are unable to develop the necessary technologies to meet the changing needs of our customers or provide such technologies at competitive prices, our customers may reduce their use of our technologies and our revenues may decline. In addition, the dynamic nature of this market limits our ability and the ability of our customers to accurately forecast quarterly and annual sales. If we, or our customers, are unable to adequately manage product transitions, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. We depend on the sale by our licensees of products that incorporate our technologies, and a reduction in those sales would adversely affect our licensing revenue. We derive most of our revenue from the licensing of our technologies to consumer electronics product manufacturers. We do not manufacture consumer electronics products ourselves and our licensing revenue is dependent on sales by our licensees of products that incorporate our technologies. We cannot control these manufacturers’ product development or commercialization efforts or predict their success. In addition, our license agreements, which typically require manufacturers of consumer electronics products and media software vendors to pay us a specified royalty for every electronics product shipped that incorporates our technologies, do not require these manufacturers to include our technologies in any specific number or percentage of units, and only a few of these agreements guarantee us a minimum aggregate licensing fee. Accordingly, if our licensees sell fewer products incorporating our technologies, decline to actively market products incorporating our technologies or otherwise face significant economic difficulties, our revenue will decline. Changes in consumer tastes or trends, changes in industry standards or adverse changes in business and economic conditions may also adversely affect our licensing revenue. Pricing pressures on the consumer electronics product manufacturers, who incorporate our technologies into their products, could limit the licensing fees we charge for our technologies, which could reduce our revenues. The markets for the consumer electronics products in which our technologies are incorporated are intensely competitive and price sensitive. Retail prices for consumer electronics products that include our technologies have decreased significantly, and we expect prices to continue to decrease for the foreseeable future. In response, manufacturers have sought to reduce their product costs, which can result in downward pressure on the licensing fees we charge our customers who incorporate our technologies into their products. Alternatively, our customers may seek to eliminate our technologies in their products in favor of internally developed technologies. A decline in the licensing fees we charge could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We face intense competition from companies with greater brand recognition and resources. The digital audio, consumer electronics and entertainment markets are intensely competitive, subject to rapid change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants Many of our current and potential competitors enjoy notable competitive advantages, including: · greater name recognition; · a longer operating history; · more developed distribution channels and deeper relationships with consumer electronics products designers and manufacturers; · a more extensive customer base; · broader product and service offerings; · greater resources for competitive activities, such as research and development, strategic acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, sales and marketing, and lobbying industry and government standards; and · more technicians and engineers. As a result, these current and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements. 11 Table of Contents Inaccurate licensee royalty reporting and unauthorized use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our licensing revenue is generated primarily from consumer electronics product manufacturers who license our technologies and incorporate them in their products. Under a significant percentage of our existing arrangements, these licensees typically pay us a specified royalty for every product they ship that incorporates our technologies. We rely on our licensees to accurately report the number of units shipped that incorporate our technologies. We calculate our license fees, prepare our financial reports, projections and budgets, and direct our sales and product development efforts based on these reports we receive from our licensees. However, it can be difficult for us to independently determine whether or not our licensees are reporting shipments accurately. This is especially true with respect to software incorporating our technologies because software can be copied relatively easily and w e often do not have easy ways to determine how many copies have been made. Most of our license agreements permit us to audit our licensees’ records, but audits are generally expensive and time consuming and initiating audits could harm our customer relationships. We expect that we will continue to be subject to understatement and non-reporting of royalty bearing revenues by licensees, which could adversely affect our operating results. Conversely, to the extent that our licensees overstate the number of products incorporating our technologies, negative corrections could result in reductions of royalty revenue in subsequent periods. Some of our licensees may begin to more closely scrutinize their past licensing statements which may result in an increased receipt of negative corrective statements. We also may experience problems with non-licensee consumer electronics product manufacturers and media software vendors, particularly in emerging economies, incorporating our technologies or incorporating our technologies and trademarks into their products without our authorization and without paying us any licensing fees. This unauthorized use of our intellectual property could adversely affect our operating results. Our business and future prospects depend upon the strength of our brand. Awareness of our brand depends to a significant extent upon decisions by our customers to display our trademarks on their products, and if our customers do not display our trademarks on their products, our ability to increase our brand awareness may be harmed. Because we engage in relatively little direct brand advertising, the promotion of our brand depends upon consumer electronics industry participants displaying our trademarks on their products that incorporate our technologies. Although we do generally require our customers to place our brand on their products, some are not required to do so. Maintaining the SRS brand and our position as an industry standard is critical to maintaining and expanding our licensing revenues and entering into new or broadening existing licensing relationships. If our customers choose for any reason not to display our trademarks on their products, our ability to maintain or increase our brand awareness may be harmed, which would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. In addition, if we fail to maintain high quality standards for our products, or the products that incorporate our technolog ies through the quality control evaluation process that we require of our licensees, the strength of our brand could be adversely affected. Licensee products that incorporate our technologies, from time to time, experience quality problems that could damage our brand, decrease revenues and increase operating expenses. Licensee products that incorporate our technologies often are complex and sometimes contain undetected software or hardware errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released. In addition, those products are often combined with, or incorporated into, products from other companies, sometimes making it difficult to identify the source of a problem. Any negative publicity or negative impact relating to these product problems (even if unrelated to our technologies) could adversely affect the perception of our brand. In addition, these errors could result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of those products or our technologies, or cause delays in delivering them and meeting customer demands, any of which could reduce our revenue and raise significant customer relations issues. Although we generally attempt to contractually limit our liability for our licensees 6; defective products, we may elect to help reengineer those products, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to risks associated with substantial international operations. We conduct sales and customer support operations in a number of countries throughout the world that require refinement to adapt to the changing market conditions on a regional basis. In addition, many of our significant customers are headquartered in the Asia region, particularly Korea and Japan. Approximately 74%, 72% and 88% of our revenues were derived from customers with headquarters located in the Asia markets during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales to customers in these markets for the foreseeable future. Also, a substantial number of products incorporating our technologies are manufactured, assembled and tested by third parties in Asia. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks of conducting business outside of the United States, any of which could have a material a dverse impact on our business and results of operations, including: · global economic downturn; 12 Table of Contents · political, social and economic instability and the risk of war, terrorist activities or other international incidents in Asia and elsewhere abroad; · currency fluctuations; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; · unexpected changes in, or impositions of, government requirements; · adverse changes in tariffs and other protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors; · potentially longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting receivables from foreign entities; · the burdens of complying with a variety of non-U.S. laws and reduced protection of our intellectual property in some countries; · potentially adverse tax consequences and the complexities of foreign value added tax systems; and · other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters and major health concerns. Our technologies have a long and unpredictable sales cycle, which can result in uncertainty and delays in generating additional revenues. Historically, because of the complexity of our technologies, it can take a significant amount of time and effort to explain the benefits of our technologies to potential new customers and to negotiate a sale. For example, it typically takes six to nine months after our first contact with a prospective customer before we start licensing our technology to that customer and another six to nine months to begin generating revenues. In addition, purchases of our products are usually made in connection with new design starts by our customers, the timing of which is outside of our control. Accordingly, we may be unable to predict accurately the timing of any significant future sales of our products. We may also spend substantial time and management attention on potential license agreements that are not consummated, or in which the consumer electronic product ultimately does not sell in large quantities , thereby foregoing other higher revenue opportunities. If our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our ability to compete may be affected by our ability to protect our proprietary information. We have filed numerous U.S. and foreign patent applications and to date have a number of issued U.S. and foreign patents covering various aspects of our technologies. We cannot guarantee that the steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. It is possible that third parties may assert claims or initiate litigation against us or our customers with respect to existing or future products. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation in the technology industry is common. Claims and litigation brought against us or initiated by us could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management from our business. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and could require us to pay significant damages or could prevent us from licensing some or all of our technologies, which could significantly harm our business and results of operations. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or if we are unable to attract and retain other key personnel, we may not be able to manage our operations or meet our growth objectives. Our future success depends to a large extent upon the continued service of key personnel, including engineering, sales and administrative staff. We anticipate that any future growth will require us to recruit and hire a number of new personnel in engineering, operations, finance, sales and marketing. Competition for such personnel can be intense, and it is possible that we may not be able to recruit and retain necessary personnel to operate our business and support future growth. 13 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock is volatile and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in our operating results, announcements of new products or technological innovations by us or our competitors, strategic alliances between us and third parties, general market fluctuations and other events and factors. Changes in earnings estimates made by brokerage firms and industry analysts relating to the markets in which we do business, or relating to us specifically, have in the past resulted in, and could in the future result in, an immediate and adverse effect on the market price of the common stock. Even though our stock is quoted on The NASDAQ Global Market, our stock has had and may continue to have low trading volume and high volatility. The historically low trading volume of our stock makes it more likely that a severe fluctuation in volum e, either up or down, will significantly impact the stock price. Because of the relatively low trading volume of our stock, our stockholders may have difficulty selling our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Global Market and the market for technology and small market cap companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of securities of technology companies have been particularly volatile. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage transactions resulting in a change in control, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 