Item 1A. Risk Factors We are exposed to risks in our licensing business related to product and customer concentration. Currently, our licensing revenue is concentrated in the home theater market with the majority of revenue generated from the inclusion of SRS technology inside televisions, DVD players and set-top boxes. We expect that the consumer home entertainment market will continue to account for a significant portion of our licensing revenues for the foreseeable future. While consumer spending in general on consumer electronic products has increased, retail prices for certain consumer electronics products that include our audio technology, such as DVD players, have decreased significantly. Indications are that this trend will continue for the foreseeable future. From time to time, certain of our OEM and semiconductor manufacturer customers may account for a significant portion of revenue from a particular product application, such as DVD players, set-top boxes or televisions. Consumer electronics products manufacturers could decide to exclude our audio rendering technology from their home theater products altogether in an effort to reduce cost. The loss of any such customer could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly dependent on the consumer electronics market, which is characterized by short product life cycles, fluctuations in demand and seasonality, and is subject to risks related to product transitions and supply of other components. The consumer electronics market is characterized by intense competition, rapidly evolving technology, and ever-changing consumer preferences. These factors result in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles and significant price competition. The dynamic nature of this market limits our, as well as our customers’ ability to accurately forecast quarterly and annual sales. If we, or our customers, are unable to manage product transitions, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. Pricing pressures on the consumer electronics product manufacturers, who incorporate our technologies into their products, could limit the licensing fees we charge for our technologies, which could adversely affect our revenues. The markets for the consumer electronics products in which our technologies are incorporated are intensely competitive and price sensitive. Retail prices for consumer electronics products that include our technologies, such as DVD players and home theater systems, have decreased significantly, and we expect prices to continue to decrease for the foreseeable future. In response, manufacturers have sought to reduce their product costs, which can result in downward pressure on the licensing fees we charge our customers who incorporate our technologies. A decline in the licensing fees we charge could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We conduct operations in a number of countries and are subject to risks of international operations, particularly in Asia and the People’s Republic of China. We have significant operations in Hong Kong, the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and other parts of Asia that require refinement to adapt to the changing market conditions in those regions. Our 15 operations in Asia, and international operations in general, are subject to risks of unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements. Our customers geographically located in the Asia Pacific markets accounted for approximately 89%, 86%, and 91% of total Company sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively and are expected to continue to account for a substantial percentage of sales in the future. The economic climate in Asia continues to be impacted by increases in unemployment, declines in consumer spending, currency devaluation and bank failures. Any of these factors, should they continue, could significantly reduce the demand for the end user goods in which our products and technologies are used. The PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past decade; but such growth has been uneven across geographic and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that such growth will continue or that any potential currency devaluation in the region will not have a negative effect on our business, including Valence. The PRC economy has also experienced deflation in the past, which may continue in the future. The current economic situation may adversely affect our profitability over time as expenditures for consumer electronics products and information technology may decrease due to the results of slowing domestic demand and deflation. Hong Kong is a Special Administrative Region of the PRC with its own government and legislature. Hong Kong enjoys a high degree of autonomy from the PRC under the principle of “one country, two systems.” It is possible that Hong Kong may not continue to enjoy autonomy from the PRC. The Hong Kong dollar has remained relatively constant due to the U.S. dollar peg and currency board system that has been in effect in Hong Kong since 1983. Since mid-1997, interest rates in Hong Kong have fluctuated significantly and real estate and retail sales have declined. It is possible that the Hong Kong economy may deteriorate or that the historical currency peg of the Hong Kong dollar to the U.S. dollar may not be maintained. Continued declining consumer spending in Hong Kong, deflation or the discontinuation of the currency peg could adversely affect our business. Our ability to generate revenues and meet with customers may be effected by widespread illness Widespread illnesses such as the SARS illness and the Avian Influenza, or Asia Bird Flu, could impact our operations or our consumer electronics licensee’s operations. For example, our ability to visit our customers, our ability to conduct sales meetings or presentations, and sell through rates of electronics products to end consumers may be dramatically effected by either widespread or perceived potential illnesses. We are uncertain of the total costs associated with the planned divestiture of Valence. In order for us to focus on our licensing business, our Board approved on February 23, 2006 the sale of our semiconductor business. In connection with such sale, the Company may incur cash and non-cash accounting charges, which at the present cannot be reasonably estimated. The timing and amount of the net charges may have a negative impact to the statement of operations. If the sale of consumer electronics products incorporating our technologies does not grow in emerging markets, our ability to increase our licensing revenue may be limited. We also expect that growth in our licensing revenue will depend, in part, upon the growth of sales of consumer electronics products incorporating our technologies in other countries, including China and India, as consumers in these markets have more disposable income and are increasingly purchasing entertainment products with surround sound capabilities. However, if our licensing revenue from the use of our technologies in these new markets or geographic areas does not expand, our prospects could be adversely affected. 16 We have a long and unpredictable sales cycle, which can result in uncertainty and delays in generating additional revenues. Historically, because of the complexity of our technologies, it can take a significant amount of time and effort to explain the benefits of our technologies and to negotiate a sale. For example, it typically takes six to nine months after our first contact with a prospective customer before we start licensing our technology to that customer. In addition, purchases of our products are usually made in connection with new design starts, the timing of which is outside of our control. Accordingly, we may be unable to predict accurately the timing of any significant future sales of our products. We may also spend substantial time and management attention on potential license agreements that are not consummated, thereby foregoing other opportunities. If our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our ability to compete may be affected by our ability to protect our proprietary information. We have filed numerous U.S. and foreign patent applications and to date have a number of issued U.S. and foreign patents covering various aspects of our technologies. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the U.S. It is possible that third parties may assert claims or initiate litigation against us or our customers with respect to existing or future products. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or if we are unable to attract and retain other key personnel, we may not be able to manage our operations or meet our growth objectives. Our future success depends to a large extent upon the continued service of key personnel, including engineering, sales and marketing staff, and highly skilled semiconductor design staff. We anticipate that any future growth will require us to recruit and hire a number of new personnel in engineering, operations, finance, sales and marketing. Competition for such personnel can be intense, and it is possible that we may not be able to recruit and retain necessary personnel to operate our business and support future growth. The market price of our common stock is volatile and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in our operating results, announcements of new products or technological innovations by us or our competitors, strategic alliances between us and third parties, general market fluctuations and other events and factors. Changes in earnings estimates made by brokerage firms and industry analysts relating to the markets in which we do business, or relating to us specifically, have in the past resulted in, and could in the future result in, an immediate and adverse effect on the market price of the common stock. Even though our stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market, our stock has had and may continue to have low trading volume and high volatility. The historically low trading volume of our stock makes it more likely that a severe fluctuation in volume, either up or down, will significantly impact the stock price. Since our shares are thinly traded, our shareholders may have difficulty selling our common stock. 17 Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage transactions resulting in a change in control, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to discourage, delay or prevent change in control. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We face intense competition from companies with greater brand recognition and resources. The digital audio, consumer electronics, and entertainment markets are intensely competitive, subject to rapid change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants Many of our current and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including: · greater name recognition; · a longer operating history; · more developed distribution channels and deeper relationships with semiconductor and consumer electronics products manufacturers; · a more extensive customer base; · broader product and service offerings; · greater resources for competitive activities, such as research and development, strategic acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, sales and marketing, and lobbying industry and government standards; and · more technicians and engineers. As a result, these current and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth the executive officers of SRS Labs, Inc., their ages as of March 1, 2006, and the positions currently held by each person: Name Age Position Thomas C.K. Yuen 54 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President Ulrich Gottschling 47 Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary Alan Kraemer 55 Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer David Frerichs 36 Executive Vice President, Strategic Marketing and Corporate Development Lionel Cheng 48 President, ValenceTech, Limited Janet Biski 50 Vice President Michael Franzi 50 Vice President, Sales & Licensing Sarah Yang 39 Vice President, Software Engineering The Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer are elected annually by the Board at its first meeting following the annual meeting of stockholders. Other executive officers may be 18 appointed by the Board of Directors at such meeting or at any other meeting. All executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Thomas C.K. Yuen has served as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President and a director of SRS Labs since January 1994. Mr. Yuen also serves as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and a Director of ValenceTech Limited, its wholly-owned subsidiary Valence Technology Limited, and of SRS WOWcast, Inc. Prior to joining SRS Labs, Mr. Yuen co-founded Irvine-based AST Research, Inc. in 1981. He served as AST’s co-chairman and chief operating officer. Under his leadership, AST became a Fortune 500 company in 1991, and its stock was named the Best Performing NASD Stock of 1991. Mr. Yuen departed AST in 1992 and focused his efforts on investing in new projects. Before co-founding AST, he held various engineering and project management positions with Hughes Aircraft Company, Sperry Univac and Computer Automation. Mr. Yuen was born in Shanghai, China and raised in Hong Kong. He received his Bachelor of Science Degree in Electrical Engineering from University of California, Irvine in 1974 with School Honors. He is also an Honorary Professor of China Nationality University in Beijing. Mr. Yuen is the recipient of several awards from University of California, Irvine, including the UCI Medal in 1990; the outstanding Engineering Alumni Award in 1987 and the Distinguished Alumnus Award in 1986. He was named one of the top 25 executives of the computer industry by the Computer Reseller News Magazine in 1988 and 1991. In 1997, Mr. Yuen received the Director of the Year award from the Orange County Foundation of Corporate Directors. Ulrich Gottschling has served as Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer of SRS Labs since January 2006. Previously, Mr. Gottschling served as CFO of Valor Computerized Systems, Inc. (VCS), which offers integrated software solutions from design-through-manufacturing to the electronics supply chain, from 1999 to 2005 and as Vice President of Operations of VCS since 2000. He was also President, CFO and a member of the board of directors of E4ENET.Com, Inc., an affiliated company of VCS, which offers business-to-business collaboration technology. Prior to joining VCS, Mr. Gottschling was CFO of Sound Source Interactive, Inc, a publicly-held entertainment software company, from 1995 to 1999 and also served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Sound Source from 1997 to 1999. Alan Kraemer has served as Chief Technology Officer of SRS Labs since January 2005. He has also served as Executive Vice President, Technology and Business Development since June 2004. Prior thereto, he served as Vice President, Engineering of the Company since April 2000 and Director of Engineering since February 1994. In addition, Mr. Kraemer served as President of Sierra Digital Productions, Inc., a compact disc production and recording company, since August 1989. Prior to joining SRS Labs, Mr. Kraemer served as Senior Vice President of Engineering of De LaRue Printrak, a manufacturer of automatic fingerprint identification systems, Vice President of Engineering for AST Research, a personal computer manufacturer, Vice President of Engineering with Point4 Data Corporation, and as Director of Software Engineering of Northrop Electronics. David Frerichs has served as Executive Vice President, Strategic Marketing and Corporate Development since November 2005. Prior to joining SRS, he was Vice President, US general manager at Coding Technologies, a European audio compression IP licensing company, from July 2002 to November 2005. From June 1999 to July 2002, he served as founder then as President of iM Networks, a small venture-backed corporation, which later formed a joint venture in Japan with Softbank Broadmedia. Previously, he held senior product marketing management positions. Mr. Frerichs holds a BS in Computer Engineering from the University of Illinois, Urbana/Champaign. Lionel Cheng has served as acting President of Valence since September 2005. Mr. Cheng originally joined Valence in May 2004 to serve as Vice President of Operations and Marketing. Prior to joining Valence, he held the position of General Manager for the Asia Pacific region from April 2003 to October 2004 at Egenera, Inc., a U.S.-based firm focused on improving data centers. Before Egenera, he held the position of Director & General Manager at Oasis Computer Consultant, LTd. from May 2001 to 19 April 2003. Mr. Cheng has also served as Vice President of Business Development & General Manager for Asia Online Ltd from June 2000 to April 2001. In addition, he previously held management positions at Tektronix, AST Research Inc. and PC Plus Ltd./Swire Systems Ltd. Mr. Cheng’s experience in management throughout the Asia Pacific region spans more than 20 years. Janet Biski has served as Vice President since January 2006 and prior to as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of SRS Labs since December 2002. Ms. Biski has also served as Secretary of SRS Labs from November 2004 to December 2005. Previously, she was a founder and served as Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Operations for AccentCare, Inc., a home-care company, from April 1999 to December 2002. During that time, AccentCare successfully completed 15 acquisitions and grew revenues to approximately $100M. Prior to joining AccentCare, Ms. Biski served as Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer of SRS Labs from 1994 to 1999. Ms. Biski was part of the management team in its early start-up phase and successfully led the Company through the completion of its initial public offering. Ms. Biski also participated in SRS Labs’ acquisition of Valence as well as several of the company’s technology acquisitions. Early in her career, Ms. Biski was a regional controller for Fujitsu Business Systems, and held various financial management positions at IBM/ROLM. Ms. Biski has a BS in Accounting from the State University of New York. Michael Franzi has served as Vice President, Sales and Licensing since August 2005. Before joining SRS, Mr. Franzi was Chief Marketing Officer at THX, formerly a division of Lucasfilm, from October 2004 to July 2005. THX is a leading supplier of technology solutions and services for the consumer electronics, cinema, DVD authoring, games and automotive markets. Prior to THX, Mr. Franzi was VP of Americas: Marketing and Sales for a subsidary company of KDDI Corporation from November 2003 to October 2004. There he successfully launched many innovative products for real time monitoring of video quality, into the professional TV broadcast and post-production markets. Prior to that, he was Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing for Planar Systems from September 2000 to February 2003. Previously, he held senior sales and marketing management positions at leading technology companies including Tektronix, Inc. and Conexant Systems. Mr. Franzi holds a Bachelors of Science in Electrical Engineering from the University of Pittsburgh and has attended executive management classes at Wharton Business School. Sarah Yang has served as Vice President of Software Engineering since January 2006 and as Senior Director of Software Engineering since 2004. Previously, Ms. Yang served as Director of Software Engineering from 2001. Ms. Yang joined SRS Labs in February of 2000 as senior DSP engineer. Prior to joining SRS, Ms. Yang was Senior Consultant at CSC and has held senior software engineering positions at Vicor Corporation and National Instruments. Ms. Yang holds an MS in Physics from Texas A&M University and an MS in Electrical Engineering from The Institute of Acoustics in China. 