Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. You should carefully read and consider the risk factors set forth below. The current financial condition of the automotive industry in the United States could have a negative impact on our ability to finance our operations. Several of our key customers face significant business challenges due to increased competitive conditions and recent changes in consumer demand. In operating our business, we depend on the ability of our customers to timely pay the amounts we have billed them for tools and products. Any disruption in our customers’ ability to pay us in a timely manner because of financial difficulty or 22 Table of Contents otherwise would have a negative impact on our ability to finance our operations. In addition, because of the challenging conditions within the U.S. automotive industry, many automotive suppliers have filed for bankruptcy. In light of these conditions, our suppliers could impose restrictive payment terms on us that would have a negative impact on our ability to finance our operations. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by global economic and financial markets conditions. Current global economic and financial markets conditions, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the potential for a significant and prolonged global economic recession, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These conditions may also materially impact our customers, suppliers and other parties with which we do business. Economic and financial market conditions that adversely affect our customers may cause them to terminate existing purchase orders or to reduce the volume of products they purchase from us in the future. In connection with the sale of products, we normally do not require collateral as security for customer receivables and do not purchase credit insurance. We may have significant balances owing from customers that operate in cyclical industries and under leveraged conditions that may impair the collectibility of those receivables. Failure to collect a significant portion of amounts due on those receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse economic and financial markets conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for outstanding accounts receivable or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. Changes of this type could significantly affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial markets conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding under our credit facilities and our credit agreements contain significant obligations and restrictions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. As of September 30, 2008, approximately $19.8 million was outstanding under our credit facilities and we had approximately $32.8 million of additional borrowing availability under the facilities. Our credit facilities contain financial and other covenants that we are required to satisfy in order to continue to have access to financing under the agreements. Among other covenants, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock [unless we are in compliance with certain financial tests.] We are also required to obtain the prior consent of our lenders before taking certain actions, such as selling material assets outside of the ordinary course of business, and are generally required to use the net proceeds from asset sales to repay our outstanding indebtedness. Our obligations to our lenders under our credit agreements are secured by substantially all of our assets and properties. If we violate any of the financial covenants under our credit agreements, including our obligation to make required principal or interest payments when due, our lenders would be permitted to accelerate our obligation to repay the indebtedness owed under our credit agreements and to take other actions, such as enforcing their security interest in our assets and properties. Any of these actions would be likely to have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if any of our lenders were to become unable to satisfy their obligations to us under our credit agreements as a result of adverse conditions affecting the banking industry or credit markets or other factors, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our pension and OPEB expenses are affected by factors outside our control, including the performance of plan assets, interest rates, actuarial data and experience and changes in laws and regulations. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, conditions in the worldwide debt and equity markets have deteriorated significantly. These conditions have had a negative effect on the fair value of Dura’s plan investments since December 31, 2007. We may not accomplish the objectives of our restructuring initiatives and workforce realignments. We announced a restructuring plan that we anticipate to continue in 2009. The restructuring plan is expected to impact over 50% of our worldwide operations either through product movement or facility closures. Costs associated with the restructuring plans are significant and relate to employee severance, capital investment, facility closure and product move costs. As part of this initiative, we have identified certain key actions that must be accomplished to achieve our projected cost savings: • Our customers, as industry practice, must approve the movement of the production of their parts along with prequalifying (PPAP) of the production lines at the new production facilities; 23 Table of Contents • Our customers must agree that these cost reduction actions are being made to meet our previously agreed to price reduction commitments; • The representatives of our affected employees must support the streamlining and moving of operations in a timely manner in order that we meet the cost reduction objectives in the planned time period; and • We must execute this initiative in a reasonable time period. In addition, we continue to appropriately align our indirect workforce with the current sales volumes. Any failure to obtain substantial completion of any of these restructuring plans may result in us not maintaining sufficient profitability. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2007, as a result of several material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Descriptions of the material weaknesses are included in Item 9A, “Control and Procedures”, in this Form 10-K. As a result of these material weaknesses, we performed additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. However, the material weaknesses could result in a misstatement of substantially all accounts and disclosures, which would result in a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Errors in our financial statements could require a restatement or prevent us from timely filing our periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. While we have taken and continue to take actions to remediate the material weaknesses, we cannot be certain that any remedial measures we have taken or plan to take will be effective in remedying all identified deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting or result in the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Our inability to remediate the material weaknesses or any additional material weaknesses that may be identified in the future could, among other things, cause us to fail to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC and require us to incur additional costs and divert management resources. Additionally, the effectiveness of our or any system of disclosure controls and procedures is subject to inherent limitations, and therefore we cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure controls and procedures will prevent or detect future errors or fraud in connection with our financial statements. We are dependent on our largest customers and on selected vehicle programs. We are dependent on Ford, Volkswagen, General Motors (GM) and Chrysler as our largest customers. Our revenues from Ford, Volkswagen, GM and Chrysler represented approximately 27%, 12%, 9% and 9%, respectively, of our revenues for 2007. The loss of Ford, Volkswagen, GM and Chrysler or any other significant customer could have a material adverse effect on us. The contracts we typically enter into with many of our customers, including Ford, Volkswagen, GM and Chrysler, provide for supplying the customers’ requirements for a particular model, rather than for manufacturing a specific quantity of products. Such contracts range from one year to the life of the platform or model, usually three to seven years, and do not require the purchase by the customer of any minimum number of parts. Therefore, the loss of any one of such customers or a significant reduction in demand for certain other key models or a group of related models sold by any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our existing and future revenues and net income. GM, Ford and Chrysler continue to lose market share in North America and, as a result, significantly reduced their 24 Table of Contents production volumes. From time to time, we are involved in product liability and pricing claims with certain of our significant customers. As a result of these claims, it is possible that our relationship with these customers could be adversely affected. Our inability to compete effectively in the highly competitive automotive supply industry could result in the loss of customers, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. The automotive component supply industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are companies, or divisions or subsidiaries of companies that are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, with respect to certain of our products, we compete with divisions of our OEM customers. There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete successfully with the products of these other companies, which could result in the loss of customers and, as a result, decreased revenues and profitability. We principally compete for new business both at the beginning of the development of new models and upon the redesign of existing models by our major customers. New model development generally begins two to five years prior to the marketing of such models to the public. The failure to obtain new business on new models or to retain or increase business on redesigned existing models could adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, as a result of the relatively long lead times required for many of our complex structural components, it may be difficult in the short-term for us to obtain new sales to replace any unexpected decline in the sale of existing products. We may incur significant expense in preparing to meet anticipated customer requirements which may not be recovered. In the last three fiscal years, we have experienced declining gross margin, and we may not succeed in returning to historical gross margin levels. Our gross margin has declined in each of the last three fiscal years. These declines were a result of a number of factors including declines in North American OEMs automotive production levels from previous levels resulting in lower fixed cost absorption, and increased raw material costs that could not be passed along fully to our customers. We cannot assure you that our gross margin will improve or return to prior historical levels, and that any further reduction in customer demand for the products that we supply would not have a further adverse effect on our gross margin. A lack of improvement in our future gross margin levels would harm our financial condition and adversely impact our business. If we are unable to obtain our raw materials at favorable prices, it could adversely impact our financial condition. Numerous raw materials are used in the manufacture of our products. Our principal raw materials include (1) coil steel and resin in mechanism production, (2) metal wire and resin in cable production and (3) glass in window systems. The types of steel we purchase include hot and cold rolled, galvanized, organically coated and aluminized steel. Overall, steel accounted for the most significant component of our raw material costs. Steel prices have been volatile over the last few years. Additionally, the prices of aluminum and resin have substantially increased. These raw materials cost increases have negatively impacted our gross profit. To the extent we are not able to fully pass on increased steel and other raw material costs to our customers in a timely fashion or otherwise able to offset these increased operating costs, our business, results of operations and financial condition will continue to be adversely affected. Moreover, we may be materially and adversely affected by the failure of our suppliers to perform as expected. Our gross margin and profitability will be adversely affected by the inability to reduce costs or increase prices. There is substantial continuing pressure from the major OEMs to reduce costs, including the cost of products purchased from outside suppliers. In addition, our business has a substantial fixed cost base. Therefore, our profitability is dependent, in part, on our ability to spread fixed production costs over increasing product sales. If we are unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset price reductions and any reduction in consumer demand for automobiles resulting in decreased sales, our gross margin and profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, our customers often times require engineering, design or production changes. In some circumstances, we may not be able to achieve price increases in amounts sufficient to cover the costs of these changes. Cyclicality and seasonality in the automotive and specialty vehicle markets could adversely affect our revenues and net income. The automotive and specialty vehicle markets are highly cyclical and both markets are dependent on general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending preferences and the attractiveness of incentives offered by OEMs, if any. In addition, automotive production and sales can be affected by labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. 25 Table of Contents Economic factors adversely affecting automotive production and consumer spending could adversely impact our revenues and net income. The volume of automotive production in North America, Europe and the rest of the world has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from year to year, and such fluctuations give rise to fluctuations in demand for our products. The weakness in the North American OEMs automotive market has adversely affected our operating results in 2007, and the weakness is expected to continue for some time. In addition, because we have significant fixed production costs, relatively modest declines in our customers’ production levels can have a significant adverse impact on our profitability. Our business is also somewhat seasonal. We typically experience decreased revenues and operating income during the third calendar quarter of each year due to the impact of scheduled OEM plant shutdowns in July and August for vacations and new model changeovers. We may incur restructuring and asset impairment charges that would reduce our earnings. During the last several years, we have evaluated our worldwide manufacturing capacity utilization and opportunities for cost savings in light of conditions in the North American and European automotive vehicle market. As a result of these evaluations, we have taken several actions including closing certain facilities, combining facilities, reducing and consolidating certain support activities and disposing of certain business units. We have recorded significant restructuring charges related to our current restructuring plans. Our reported earnings will be reduced in the event we incur additional charges in the future as a result of the current and any additional restructuring activities undertaken by us. We are subject to certain risks associated with our foreign operations that could harm our revenues and profitability. We have operations in Europe, Asia and Latin America. Certain risks are inherent in international operations, including: • difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; • tax rates in certain foreign countries may exceed those in the United States and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; • general economic conditions, political unrest and terrorist attacks against American interests in countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries; • exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions; • difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; and • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will be dependent, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or our business, results of operations and financial condition as a whole. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results. We generate a significant portion of our revenues and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported sales and earnings from our international operations will be reduced because the applicable local currency will be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. The strengthening of the foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar had a positive impact on our 2007 revenues. 26 Table of Contents Our business may be disrupted significantly by work stoppages and other labor matters. Many OEMs and their suppliers have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by OEMs or their suppliers could result in slow-downs or closures of assembly plants where our products are included in assembled vehicles. In the event that one or more of our customers experience a material work stoppage, such work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is labor intensive and utilizes a large number of unionized employees. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 35% of our U.S. employees were unionized and a substantial number of our non U.S. employees are covered by Workers’ Councils. In the U.S., we have collective bargaining agreements with several unions including: the United Auto Workers, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. Virtually all of our unionized facilities in the U.S. have separate contracts. Each such contract has an expiration date independent of other labor contracts. The majority of our non U.S. employees are members of industrial trade union organizations and confederations within their respective countries. Many of these organizations and confederations operate under national contracts, which are not specific to any one employer. The expiration of the above mentioned contracts ranges from 2008 to 2010 for our unionized facilities in the U.S. and expire annually for non U.S. facilities. Although we believe that our relationship with our union employees is generally good, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate new agreements on favorable terms. In the event we are unsuccessful in negotiating new agreements, these facilities could be subject to work stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety requirements. We are required to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and occupational health and safety, including laws regulating the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into soil, air or water; and the health and safety of our colleagues. We are also required to obtain and comply with environmental permits for certain operations. We cannot assure you that we are at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with the requirements, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In some instances, such a fine or sanction could be material. In addition, we have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. Environmental requirements may become more stringent over time and we cannot assure you that we will not incur material environmental costs or liabilities in the future. We are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. Under these laws, we could be held liable for costs and damages relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party sites to which these facilities sent wastes. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from any of our current or former facilities or another location where we have disposed of wastes, we may be held liable for the contamination, and the amount of such liability could be material. We are currently conducting a cleanup of contamination at certain facilities in Germany. We are monitoring environmental contamination at certain facilities in North America. We have established accounting reserves for these contamination liabilities, but we cannot assure you that our liabilities will not exceed our reserves. We may be adversely affected by product liability exposure claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the failure of our products to perform to specifications results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, bodily injury and/or death. We cannot assure you that we will not incur significant costs to defend these claims or that we will not experience any material product liability losses in the future. In addition, if any Dura-designed products are, or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall involving those products. Each OEM has its own policy regarding product recalls and other product liability actions relating to its suppliers. However, as suppliers become more integrally involved in the vehicle design process and assume more vehicle assembly functions, OEMs are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with product recalls, product liability or warranty claims. We cannot assure you that the future costs associated with providing product warranties will not be material. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in any product recall may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, OEMs are also increasingly requiring their outside suppliers to guarantee or warrant their products and bear the costs of repair and replacement of such products under new vehicle warranties. Depending on the terms under which we supply products to an OEM, an OEM may hold us responsible for some or all of the repair or replacement costs of defective products under new vehicle warranties, when the product supplied did not perform as represented. 27 Table of Contents We carry insurance for certain legal matters including product liability; however, we do not carry insurance for warranty or recall matters, as the cost and availability for such insurance, in the opinion of management, is cost prohibitive or not available. We have established reserves for matters that are probable and estimable in amounts management believes are adequate to cover reasonable adverse judgments not covered by insurance; however, we cannot assure you that these reserves will be adequate to cover all warranty matters that could possibly arise. The outcome of the various legal actions and claims that are discussed above or other legal actions and claims that are incidental to our business may have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Technological and regulatory changes may adversely affect us. Changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements or competitive technologies may render certain of our products obsolete. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and regulatory standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products successfully on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the technological advances that may be necessary for us to remain competitive or that certain of our products will not become obsolete. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. To service our trade creditors and meet our other liquidity needs, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments to our trade creditors and to fund planned capital expenditures and other working capital requirements will depend on our ability to generate cash from our operations, and from any sale of operations, in the future. We did not generate sufficient cash from operations in 2007 to fund our operations. This condition, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our trade creditors and to fund our other liquidity needs. Our Class A Common Stock is not listed on any securities exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market and a liquid trading market for our shares does not exist. Our Class A Common Stock is not listed on any securities exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market. Our Class A Common Stock is traded over the counter on pink sheets. Accordingly, no liquid trading market exists for our Class A Common Stock. We do not currently meet the initial listing standards of the principal United States securities exchanges or the Nasdaq Stock Market, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet these standards in the future. In addition, even if we are able to meet these initial listing standards and obtain a listing for our Class A Common Stock on a securities exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our Class A Common Stock will arise or that our Class A Common Stock will continue to meet the standards for continued listing. The Series A Preferred Stock that we have issued may adversely affect the rights of the common stockholders and holders of our Series A Preferred Stock can exert significant control over Dura. Our Series A Preferred Stock contains several rights that may adversely affect the rights of the common stockholders of Dura and holders of our Series A Preferred Stock can exert significant control over Dura. For example, the Series A Preferred Stock accrues dividends at a rate of 20% per year, compounded semi-annually, provides a preference in payment of dividends, redemption and liquidation over the Class A Common Stock and will, upon conversion, have all of the rights of our Class A Common Stock. Assuming that (i) no portion of the liquidation preference has been prepaid, (ii) no redemptions have taken place and (iii) no shares of Series A Preferred Stock have been issued to management under any equity incentive plan, the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock will convert into 94% of our Class A Common Stock on the third anniversary of the effective date of our emergence from bankruptcy. In addition, the Series A Preferred Stock has equal voting rights and votes together as a single class with the Class A Common Stock on an as-converted basis. The Series A Preferred Stock also has separate class voting rights with respect to certain activities of Dura. For instance, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock is required for Dura to (or permit a subsidiary to): • declare or pay dividends on a class or series of capital stock (other than on the Series A Preferred Stock); • redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire capital stock or other equity securities; • issue securities having dividend rights or a liquidation preference equal or senior to the Series A Preferred Stock; • authorize, issue or reclassify any equity securities into notes or debt securities containing equity features; • merge or consolidate with an entity, or sell more than 25% of Dura’s assets, if the holders would not receive a consideration equal to the liquidation preference; and • liquidate or dissolve Dura. Additionally, the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 85% of the then-outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, voting as a separate class is required for Dura or any of its subsidiaries to: • become subject to an agreement or instrument that would restrict Dura’s performance of its obligations under the Certificate of Designations of the Series A Preferred Stock; or • enter into or modify agreements with officers, directors, employers or affiliates or persons or entities related thereto. Pacificor, LLC and its affiliates own approximately 38% of the voting power of Dura As of June 27, 2008, Pacificor, LLC and its affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, shares of Series A Preferred Stock and Class A Common Stock representing approximately 38% of the combined voting power of Dura. As a result, Pacificor may be able to influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, regardless of the preferences of the minority stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 