Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with all of the other information included in this document before deciding to invest in our securities. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Beginning in the third quarter of 2001 and continuing through December 31, 2008, we incurred combined net losses of $170.0 million. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we reported net losses of approximately $3.5 million and $2.6 million, respectively, and cash flows used by operations of $1.0 million and $1.4 million, respectively. We anticipate that our net operating losses may continue in fiscal year 2009. 6 Table of Contents Our ability to meet cash and future liquidity requirements is dependent on various factors, including our ability to raise additional capital, successfully negotiate extended payment terms with certain creditors, attain our business objectives, maintain tight controls over spending and release new products and product upgrades on a timely basis. If our cash requirements cannot be satisfied from cash flows from operations and the infusion of additional capital, we may be forced to implement further expense reduction measures, including, but not limited to, workforce reductions, the sale of assets, the consolidation of operations or the delay, cancellation or reduction of certain product development, marketing, licensing, or other operational programs. We are dependent on contract manufacturers to produce our printed circuit assemblies and rely on sole and limited source suppliers, which could adversely affect our operations. Our NIC products are currently produced in Clearwater, Florida. We subcontract the manufacturing of computer systems, boards, plastic molds and metal chassis and certain subassemblies and components for the NIC products. We perform final assembly and program the products with our software. We implement strict quality control procedures throughout each stage of the manufacturing process and test the boards and subassemblies at various stages in the process, including final test and qualification of the product. We have entered into a letter of agreement with MC Test Service, Inc. of Melbourne, Florida, to provide our subcontract manufacturing services. In the future, any failure to maintain our agreements with MC Test Service or enter into a substitute manufacturing agreement in a timely fashion could interrupt our operations and adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products, book sales and fulfill customer orders. We currently utilize several key components in the manufacture of our products from sole-source or limited-source suppliers. Certain laser and laser amplifier components, power supplies, touch-screen sensors, single-board computers and semiconductor devices used in our NIC products are sourced from a single or a limited number of suppliers. The loss of a supplier for any of these key components could seriously disrupt our operations. As our technology has evolved, we rely less and less on application specific integrated circuits and more on programmable logic from major vendors. This approach has lessened our dependence on devices that may become obsolete, as well as allowing us to move the technology forward into new designs and lower cost parts. On our newer designs we have also utilized industry standard pluggable optical transponders that are available from multiple vendors. Nonetheless, we continually monitor end-of-life notices and perform last time buys or redesign as needed. We formulate a monthly forecast of product sales on a 90 day forward looking basis and order materials and components based on these forecasts. Lead times for materials and components that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, purchase terms and demand for a component at a given time. There may be excess or inadequate inventory of certain materials and components if actual orders vary significantly from forecasts. In the past, there have been industry-wide shortages in some of the optical components used in our products. If such shortages occur again, suppliers may be forced to allocate available quantities among their customers and we may not be able to obtain components and material in a timely manner, if at all. These shortages could lead to delays in shipping our products to our customers, which could significantly harm our business. Additionally, if prices of these components increase significantly, the margins on our products will decrease. Our largest stockholder has substantial influence over us as a result of his interests as our largest stockholder and principal creditor. As of March 13, 2009, Dr. Bryan J. Zwan, our chairman of the board, beneficially owned 232,722,523 shares of our common stock, which represented approximately 91.1% of our outstanding common stock as of that date. As the beneficial holder of over 90% of the common stock of the Company, Dr. Zwan has substantial control over matters to be determined by the stockholders of the Company, which control may be exercised in a manner adverse to the interests of other stockholders of the Company. We experience fluctuations in our operating results. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past, and future quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly due to a variety of factors, which are outside our control. Factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include the following: • fluctuations in capital expenditures and the uneven buying patterns by customers within the telecommunications industry; 7 Table of Contents • pricing changes by our competitors; • the limited number of our major customers; • the product mix, volume, timing and number of orders received from our customers; • the long sales cycle for obtaining new orders; • the timing of introduction and market acceptance of new products; • our success in developing, introducing and shipping product enhancements and new products; • our ability to enter into long-term agreements or blanket purchase orders with customers; • our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole or limited source components for our products; • our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our current and future products; • changes in costs of materials, labor and overhead; and • the financial condition of our customers. Our operating results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of future operating results, in part because our sales often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter in which they are received, which makes our sales vulnerable to short-term fluctuations. These factors have historically been and are expected to continue to be difficult to forecast. Any unfavorable changes in these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our net sales and operating results generally depend on the volume and timing of the orders we receive from customers and our ability to fulfill the orders received. Orders may be cancelled, modified or rescheduled after receipt. Most of our operating expenses are relatively fixed and cannot be reduced in response to decreases in net sales. The timing of orders and any subsequent cancellation, modification or rescheduling of orders have affected and will continue to affect our results of operations from quarter to quarter. The deferral of any large order from one quarter to another could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must obtain orders during each quarter for shipment in that quarter to achieve our net sales and profit objectives. There can be no assurance regarding the amount or timing of purchases by any customer in any future period, and business fluctuations affecting our customers have affected and will continue to affect our business. We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects and financial results. Backlog, as we define it, generally represents cumulative outstanding orders that are scheduled for delivery within a three-month period. We have not entered into long-term agreements or blanket purchase orders for the sale of our products and, accordingly, do not carry substantial backlog from quarter-to-quarter. Our sales during a particular quarter are highly dependent upon orders placed by customers during that period. Consequently, sales may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year reflecting the timing and amount of our customers ordering trends. Because most of our operating expenses are relatively fixed and cannot be easily reduced in response to decreased revenues, quarterly fluctuations in sales may have a significant effect on net income. The initiatives we have undertaken to reduce costs may have long-term adverse effects on our business. We have undertaken a number of initiatives to reduce costs. These measures have included significant reductions in workforce and the relocation of our headquarters to a smaller facility that better meets our needs. Since transitioning to a reduced cost structure, there are several risks inherent in operating as a smaller organization including, but not limited to, the risk that we will not be able to sustain our cost structure at a level necessary to restore profitability, resulting in the need for further restructuring initiatives that would entail additional charges and the risk that our ability to effectively develop and market products and remain competitive in the industries in which we compete could be impaired. Our leaner operations could have long-term effects on our business by reducing our pool of technical talent, decreasing or slowing improvements in our products, making it more difficult for us to respond to customers, limiting our ability to increase production quickly if the demand for our products increases, limiting our ability to maintain and update information systems and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. These circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Changes in United States and worldwide economies and fluctuations in capital expenditures within the telecommunications industry could adversely affect us. Our products are mainly purchased and used by telecommunications customers. Our sales are affected by the following marketplace conditions: • fluctuations in the economic conditions in the United States and global markets that could result in decreased capital expenditures by telecommunication equipment manufacturers and equipment rental and leasing companies; • bankruptcies and decreased capital expenditures that could result in the telecommunications sector in the United States and global markets by competitive local exchange carriers, internet service providers and enterprise network operator segments; and • changes in the implementation of bandwidth expansion strategies by the incumbent local exchange carriers. These marketplace conditions may contribute to quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the threat of terrorism and war may cause further disruptions to the economy, create further uncertainties and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The current global economic environment is one of contraction. Many companies have reduced their capital expenditure budgets and credit is difficult to obtain. The United States government and other nations are enacting legislation intended to stimulate the economy with aid directed specifically to the telecommunications sector. The extent and the duration of the global downturn are uncertain, and it is also uncertain how effective the economic stimulus legislation will be. It is likely the economic stimulus legislation will not have an immediate effect on the telecommunications industry due to delays in awarding government grants and contracts. It is expected some effects will be seen by the end of 2009, with the largest portions of the stimulus being spent in 2010 and 2011. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, net sales from international customers represented approximately 36% of our total net sales for that period. We anticipate that net sales from international customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our total net sales. In addition, many of our new distributors and service and sales personnel are increasingly located outside the United States Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political, economic or other conditions; • stability and performance of new distributors, exposure to collection of receivables, sales returns and allowances; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations. We may not be able to achieve sustained operating profitability. We shipped our first product, the NIC, in February 1996, and we have shipped in excess of 6,500 units. In addition, we have incurred substantial costs, including costs to: • develop and enhance our technology and products; • develop our engineering, production and quality assurance operations; 9 Table of Contents • recruit and train sales, marketing and customer service groups; • build administrative and operational support organizations; and • establish international sales channels and strengthen existing domestic sales channels. Our net losses totaled approximately $3.5 million and $2.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We anticipate that our net losses may continue in fiscal year 2009 due primarily to interest expense and costs associated with the introduction of new products and technologies. Future changes in financial accounting standards or taxation rules may adversely affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or a change in existing taxation rules can have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. These new accounting pronouncements and taxation rules may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”), an interpretation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (“FASB 109”). FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken in a tax return. The Company must determine whether it is “more-likely-than-not” that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets the “more-likely-than-not” recognition threshold, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. FIN 48 applies to all tax positions related to income taxes subject to FASB 109. Based on the analysis performed, the Company did not record any unrecognized tax positions as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008. There is a possibility that a limitation on the Company’s net operating loss carry-forwards may have come into effect under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code as a result of cumulative stock ownership changes. As of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008, the impact of such a limitation has no impact on the accompanying financial statements since all net operating losses have a full valuation allowance; however, such a limitation could impact substantially the reported gross asset related to the net operating loss carry-forwards. We may engage in acquisitions, mergers, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures that could result in financial results that are different than expected. In the normal course of business, we engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, mergers, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. Acquisition transactions are accompanied by a number of risks, including: • use of significant amounts of cash; • incurrence of debt on potentially unfavorable terms as well as amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities on potentially unfavorable terms; and • the possibility that we may pay too much cash or issue too much of our stock as consideration for an acquisition relative to the economic benefits that we ultimately derive from such acquisition. The process of integrating any acquisition may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures including the following: • diversion of management time during the period of negotiation through closing and further diversion of such time after closing from focus on operating the business to issues of integration and future products; • decline in employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business; 10 Table of Contents • the need to integrate each company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; • the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition had been smaller, private companies; • the need to incorporate acquired technology, content or rights into our products and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; and • the need to successfully develop an acquired in-process technology to achieve the value currently capitalized as intangible assets. From time to time, we may engage in discussions with candidates regarding the potential acquisition of our product lines, technologies and businesses. If such divestiture were to occur, there can be no assurance that our business, operating results and financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected. A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to: • effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to the purchaser; • identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we retain; and • reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business. In addition, if customers of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, this may adversely affect our other businesses to the extent that these customers also purchase other Digital Lightwave products. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert attention from other business operations. Further, if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively affected. We are dependent on key personnel and our ability to recruit and retain such personnel may affect our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of key management and other personnel, some of whom could be difficult to replace. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance covering our officers. Our success will depend on the performance of our officers, our ability to retain and motivate our officers, our ability to integrate new officers into our operations and the ability of all personnel to work together effectively as a team. We have had significant turnover of our executive officers in the past and could continue to have problems retaining and recruiting executive officers in the future. Our failure to retain and recruit officers and other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on a limited number of products and are uncertain of the market for our current products and planned new products. The majority of our sales are from our initial product, the NIC, and we expect that sales of NIC will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. We are uncertain about the size and scope of the market for our current and future products, including the product lines we have acquired. Our future performance will depend on increased sales of the NIC, market penetration of the OWM product line, and the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of other new and enhanced products. Market acceptance of our products and our credibility with our customers might be diminished if we are delayed in introducing or producing new products or fail to detect software or hardware errors in new products (which frequently occur when new products are first introduced). Any delay in introducing or producing new products or failure to detect software or hardware errors in new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change. To remain competitive, we must respond to the rapid technological change in our industry by developing, manufacturing and selling new products and technology and improving our existing products and technology. The market in which we compete is characterized by the following: • rapid technological change; 11 Table of Contents • changes in customer requirements and preferences; • frequent new product introductions; and • the emergence of new industry standards and practices. These factors could cause our sales to decrease or render our current products obsolete. Our success will depend on our ability to: • create improvements on and enhancements to our existing products; • develop, manufacture and sell new products to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our current and prospective customers; • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; and • increase market acceptance of our products. The failure to meet these objectives or to adapt to changing market conditions or customer requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products serve an industry that is extremely competitive, and such competition may negatively affect our business. The market for our products is intensely competitive and is subject to rapid technological change, frequent product introductions with improved performance, competitive pricing and shifting industry standards. We believe that the principal factors on which we compete include the following: • product performance; • product quality; • product reliability; • value; • customer service and support; and • length of operating history, industry experience and name recognition. We believe that the principal competitors for our Network Installation and Maintenance Products are Anritsu, EXFO Electro-Optical Engineering, Inc., JDS Uniphase Corp., and Sunrise Telecom. We believe the principal competitors for our Network Management System are Agilent, EXFO, and Spirent. Many of our competitors and certain prospective competitors have significantly longer operating histories, larger installed bases, greater name recognition and significantly greater technical, financial, manufacturing and marketing resources. In addition, a number of these competitors have long-established relationships with our customers and potential customers. We expect that competition will increase in the future and that new competitors will enter the market for most, if not all, of the products we currently do and will offer. Increased competition could reduce our profit margins and cause us to lose, or prevent us from gaining, market share. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on a limited number of major customers and a decrease in orders from any major customer could decrease our net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2008, one customer accounted for approximately 14.5% of net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2007, one customer accounted for approximately 11% of net sales. No other customer accounted for sales of 10% or more during those years. 12 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to broaden our customer base to increase the level of sales. None of our customers have a written agreement with us that obligate them to purchase additional products from us. If one or more of our major customers decide not to purchase additional products or cancels orders previously placed, our net sales could decrease which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our products continuing to meet changing regulatory and industry standards. Our products must meet industry standards and regulations that are evolving as new technologies are deployed. In the United States, our products must comply with various regulations promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission and Underwriters Laboratories, as well as industry standards established by the American Standards Institute and other organizations. Internationally, our products must comply with standards established by the European Union and communication authorities in other countries as well as with recommendations of the International Telecommunication Union. Some of our planned products may be required to be certified by Telcordia in order to be commercially viable. The failure of our products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving regulations could prevent us from selling our products in certain markets which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on proprietary technology. Our success and ability to compete depend upon our proprietary technology that is protected through a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark law. As of March 13, 2009, we had eleven issued patents, including five issued patents in the United States relating to the NIC technology, and six issued patents relating to the DWDM technology. We can make no assurances the patents for which we have applied or intend to apply will be issued or that the steps that we take to protect our technology will be adequate to prevent misappropriation. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Our business strategy includes a plan to continue the increase in net sales in international markets, and the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition, the Company may either license its proprietary rights to third parties or license certain technologies from third parties for use in the Company’s products. To further protect our proprietary information, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements and proprietary information and invention assignment agreements with our employees and suppliers and limit access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. It may be possible, despite these precautions, for third parties to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization. We may either license our proprietary rights to third parties or license certain technologies from third parties for use in our products. The telecommunications industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. We believe that our technology does not infringe on the proprietary rights of others, and we have not received any notice of claimed infringements. However, third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future that may or may not be successful. We could incur substantial costs regardless of the merits of the claims if we must defend ourselves or our customers against such claims. Parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to sell our products and could obtain an award of substantial damages. We may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, including our customers, in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us. Any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and enforce our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before such detection takes place. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Furthermore, some intellectual property rights are licensed to other companies, allowing them to compete with us using that intellectual property. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely in the future to be highly volatile. Our common stock price may fluctuate significantly in response to factors such as: • quarterly variations in operating results; • announcements of technological innovations; 13 Table of Contents • new product introductions by us or our competitors; • competitive activities; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts or our failure to meet such earnings estimates; • significant issuances of warrants to purchase common stock; • announcements by us regarding significant acquisitions, strategic relationships or capital expenditure commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • issuances of convertible or equity securities for general or merger and acquisition purposes; • issuances of debt or convertible debt for general or merger and acquisition purposes; • changes in federal, state or foreign regulations affecting the telecommunications industry; • general market and economic conditions; and • developments relating to future significant litigation. The stocks of technology companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry factors listed above may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. These fluctuations in the market price of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The sale or issuance of a significant number of shares of our stock could depress the price of our stock. Sales or issuances of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of March 13, 2009, 255,489,847 shares of our common stock were outstanding. Of these shares, 27,767,324 are eligible for sale in the public market without restriction, including 5,000,000 shares held by an entity controlled by Dr. Zwan, our largest stockholder, that are registered for resale. In addition, entities controlled by Dr. Zwan hold an additional 227,722,523 shares of outstanding common stock. As an “affiliate” of the Company (as defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended), Dr. Zwan may only sell shares of common stock in the public market in compliance with the volume limitations of Rule 144 or pursuant to an effective registration statement. We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. We have been, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding employment law issues, contractual claims, securities laws violations and other matters. We are currently not involved in any legal proceedings or claims. Any future legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend and could divert management’s attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of legal proceedings. We may incur significant litigation expenses associated with legal proceedings and claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” under SEC rules, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to resell our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the holders of our common stock may find it more difficult to obtain accurate quotations concerning the market value of the stock. Stockholders also may experience greater difficulties in attempting to sell the stock than if it was listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market. Because our common stock is not traded on a stock exchange or on The NASDAQ Stock Market, and the market price of the common stock is less than $5.00 per share, the common stock is classified as a “penny stock.” Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an “established customer” or an “accredited investor.” These include the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination that investments in penny stocks are suitable for the customer and must make special 14 Table of Contents disclosures to the customer concerning the risks of penny stocks. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock could adversely affect the market liquidity of the shares, which in turn may affect the ability of holders of our common stock to resell the stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 