Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors In any given year, we derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of large projects, and, if we are unable to replace these large projects upon completion, we could have a significant decrease in our revenues which would negatively impact our ability to generate income. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues in any given year from a limited number of large projects. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2007, our largest project was for Saudi Telecommunication Company , (“STC”), which comprised 18.1% of our total revenues. As these projects wind down to completion, we face the task of replacing such revenues with new projects. Our inability to replace such revenues would cause a significant decrease in our revenues and negatively affect our operating results. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and if our relationships with these customers were harmed our business would suffer. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we derived 63.3% and 82.7%, respectively, of our total revenues from our ten largest customers. We believe that a limited number of customers will continue to be the source of a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Key factors in maintaining our relationships with these customers include, for example, our performance on individual contracts and the strength of our professional reputation. To the extent that our performance does not meet client expectations, or our reputation or relationships with one or more key clients are impaired, our revenues and operating results could be materially harmed. Recent and continuing consolidations among wireless service providers may result in a significant reduction in our existing and potential customer base, and, if we are unable to maintain our existing relationships with such providers or expand such relationships, we could have a significant decrease in our revenues, which would negatively impact our ability to generate income as well as result in lower profitability or possible losses. The level of merger activity among telecommunications operators has increased markedly in the recent past and this trend is continuing. For example, one of our customers, Cingular, merged with AT&T Wireless and one of our largest customers, Sprint, merged with Nextel. These consolidations have reduced and may continue to reduce the number of companies comprising that portion of our customer base consisting of wireless service providers. To the extent that these combined companies decide to reduce the number of their service providers, our already highly competitive market environment will become more competitive, at least in the short term, as the same number of service providers will seek business from a reduced base of potential customers. We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenues in any given year from a limited number of large projects. Also, we may not be able to reduce costs in response to any decrease in our revenues. If we are unable to maintain our existing relations with these companies or expand such relationships, we could have a significant decrease in our revenues, which would negatively impact our ability to generate income as well as result in lower profitability. 13 We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results as a result of uncertainties relating to our ability to generate additional revenues, manage our expenditures and other factors, certain of which are outside of our control. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied considerably in the past and are likely to vary considerably due to a number of factors, including those factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. Many of these factors are outside our control and include, among others: • the timing of receipt of new licenses, use of existing spectrum for new services, or financing by potential customers; • service and price competition; • the commencement, progress, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; • the availability of equipment to deploy new technologies such as broadband; • the growth rate of wireless subscribers, which has a direct impact on the rate at which new cell sites are developed and built; and • telecommunications market conditions and economic conditions generally. Due to these factors, our results for a particular quarter may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our stock to decline significantly. Our contracts typically contain provisions giving customers the ability to terminate their contracts under various circumstances and we may not be able to replace the revenues from such projects which may have an adverse effect on our operating results due to our decreased revenues. Our contracts typically have provisions that permit customers to terminate their contracts under various circumstances, including termination for convenience. We also believe that intense competition and the current trend in industry contracting toward shorter-term contracts that provide increased grounds for customer termination may result in increased frequency of customer termination or renegotiation. If large projects, or a number of projects that in the aggregate account for a material amount of our revenues, are suspended for any significant length of time or terminated, we may encounter difficulty replacing such revenues and our operating results would decline as a result of our decreased revenues. Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains certain financial tests and requires certain mandatory prepayments, the achievement of which is dependent to a significant extent on the performance of our business as well as achieving certain benefits from our recent acquisition of the U.S. engineering business of Wireless Facilities, Inc. Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement requires us to meet certain periodic financial tests, including monthly cumulative EBITDA covenants, and requires us to make mandatory prepayments in 2008 and 2009. We have been in default under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including defaults relating to financial covenants. These defaults have been waived by our lender and the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement has been amended, among other things, to revise certain of the periodic financial tests. Our ability to meet the periodic financial tests and fund the mandatory prepayments will depend on the performance of our business, as well as the realization of anticipated benefits from our recent acquisition of the U.S. engineering business of Wireless Facilities, Inc. (“Acquired WFI Business”), including the Acquired WFI Business’ revenue and gross margins for such periods remaining relatively consistent with past performance and the achievement of certain cost savings primarily related to general and administrative expenses. If our business fails to perform as expected or these benefits fall short of our estimates or are not realized on a timely basis, we may fail to comply with our financial covenants or be unable to make the required prepayments, which could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. An uncured or unwaived event of default could cause us to have to repay the credit facility at a time when we do not have the funds to make such repayment and are unable to raise them or can only raise them on terms that are unfavorable to us. 14 Our existing debt obligations may constrain our ability to grow. Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and our outstanding note to SPCP Group L.L.C. (as assignee of Wireless Facilities, Inc.) require us to apply most of the proceeds of any equity and debt financings we undertake to the payment of those obligations. To the extent that market conditions are such that we are unable to raise funds beyond those required to satisfy these obligations, our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy may be adversely affected. If the borrowing base under our credit facility decreases our business may be adversely impacted. Our ability to borrow funds or to maintain outstanding borrowings under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement is dependent upon having a sufficient borrowing base. Our borrowing base is calculated in accordance with a formula based upon various percentages of eligible billed and unbilled receivables, where eligibility may depend upon factors such as the age of the receivables and the geographic location of the account debtor. If our borrowing base declines we must repay any outstanding borrowings to the extent they exceed the borrowing base and, in addition, we may not be entitled to borrow additional funds under the credit facility. This could result in an adverse effect on our business due to a lack of availability of needed working capital for normal operations or a lack of availability of funds to pursue our acquisition strategy. If we are unable to make a required payment under the credit facility this would cause us to be in default and at risk of having the entire facility called due at a time when we are unable to raise the necessary funds to pay it off on terms that are unfavorable to us or at all. We may not receive the full amount of our backlog, which could harm our business. Our firm backlog was approximately $61.6 million at December 31, 2007. We define firm backlog as the value of work-in-hand to be done with customers as of a specific date where the following conditions are met: • the price of the work to be done is fixed; • the scope of the work to be done is fixed, both in definition and amount (for example, the number of sites has been determined); and • there is a written contract, purchase order, agreement or other documentary evidence which represents a firm commitment by the client to pay us for the work to be performed. We also had implied backlog of approximately $16.6 million as of December 31, 2007. We define implied backlog as the estimated revenues from master service agreements and similar arrangements which have met the first two conditions set forth above but for which we have not received a firm contractual commitment. Our backlog includes orders under contracts that in some cases extend for several years. The amount of our backlog that we may recognize as revenues during any fiscal quarter may vary significantly because the receipt and timing of any revenues is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Further, the actual realization of revenues on engagements included in our backlog may never occur or may change because a project schedule could change or the project could be cancelled, or a contract could be reduced, modified, or terminated early. If we fail to realize revenues from engagements included in our backlog at December 31, 2007 our operating results for our 2008 fiscal year, as well as future reporting periods, may be materially harmed due to decreased revenues. A large percentage of our revenues come from fixed price contracts, which require us to bear the risk of cost overruns. A large percentage of our revenues are derived from fixed price contracts. The portion of our revenues from fixed price contracts for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was 54.7%, 52.8% and 71.0%, respectively. Under fixed price contracts, we provide specific tasks for a specific price and are typically paid on a milestone basis. Such contracts involve greater financial risks than time and materials and cost-plus type contracts because we bear the risk if actual project costs exceed the amounts we are paid under the contracts. 15 To the extent we recognize revenues on fixed price contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, increases in estimated project costs could cause fluctuations in our quarterly results and adversely affect our operating results. We recognize revenues on fixed price contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, which requires considerable judgment since this technique relies upon estimates or budgets. With the percentage-of-completion method, in each period we recognize expenses as they are incurred and recognize revenues based on the ratio of the current costs incurred for the project to the then estimated total costs of the project. We compare costs incurred to date to progress achieved against project milestones to determine if the percentage of completion is reasonable. Accordingly, the revenues that we recognize in a given quarter depend on, among other things, costs we have incurred for individual projects and our then current estimates of the total costs of the individual projects. If in any period we significantly increase our estimate of the total costs to complete a given project, we may recognize very little or no additional revenues with respect to that project. If the total contract cost estimates indicate that there is a loss, such loss is recognized in the period such determination is made. To the extent that our cost estimates fluctuate over time or differ from actual costs, our operating results may be materially affected. As a result of these challenges associated with fixed price contracts, our gross profit on these contracts in future periods may be significantly reduced or eliminated. If more of our customers require fixed price contracts with fewer milestones than in previous years, we may not have sufficient access to working capital to fund the operating expenses incurred in connection with such contracts, and we may not be able to perform under our existing contracts or accept new contracts with similar terms. A number of our customers are requiring fixed price contracts with fewer milestones than in previous years. We may incur significant operating expenses in connection with such contracts and may not receive corresponding payments until the milestones have been completed. We may need to use our available cash to cover operating expenses incurred in connection with such contracts until we complete the milestones, invoice our customers and collect payments. This may result in increased needs for working capital, and if we do not have access to sufficient capital to fund our working capital needs, we may not be able to perform under our existing contracts or accept new contracts with similar terms. The extent of our dependence on international operations may give rise to increased management challenges and could harm our results of operations. Customers outside the United States accounted for 67.8% and 77.1% of our revenues from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The multi-jurisdictional nature of our revenues exposes us to additional risks. Such risks include: • the effects of terrorism; • the general economic and political conditions in each country; • the effect of applicable foreign tax structures, including tax rates that may be higher than tax rates in the United States; • tariff and trade regulations; • management of a geographically diverse organization; • difficulties and increased expenses in complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including labor, employment and immigration laws; • changes in the applicable industry regulatory environments in foreign countries, including delays in deregulation or privatization affecting the pace at which wireless licenses are awarded; and • the inability to benefit from tax losses incurred in different foreign jurisdictions. Expansion of our international operations may require significant expenditure of operating, financial and management resources and result in increased administrative and compliance costs that could increase related 16 general and administrative expenses and negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, the cost of attracting and retaining employees with the skill set to deal with non-U.S. regulatory compliance, as well as U.S. driven regulatory matters, such as compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and implementing regulations, may continue to increase general and administrative expenses, which might negatively impact our international operations and could further reduce our profitability. Providing services outside the United States carries the additional risk of currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls imposed by certain countries since many of our non-U.S. projects are undertaken in local currency. Although we generally incur project expenses in the same currency in which payments are received under the contract, we do not currently engage in additional currency hedging activities to limit the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Therefore, fluctuations in the currency exchange rate could have a negative impact on the profitability of our operations, particularly if: (i) we cannot incur project expenses in the same currency in which payments are received under the contract; and (ii) there is a negative impact when converting back to United States Dollars. In addition, foreign exchange controls may limit the timing and our ability to have funds transmitted out of a foreign country. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Foreign Exchange Risk.” Our development stage customers may face difficulties in obtaining financing to fund the expansion of their wireless networks, which may reduce demand for our services. Many of our development stage customers depend on financial markets to finance the development of new technologies or networks. As an example, during the downturns in the financial markets in 2000, and specifically within the telecommunications financial markets, many of our customers experienced trouble obtaining financing to fund the expansion of their wireless networks. Most vulnerable are customers that are new licensees and wireless service providers who have limited sources of funds from operations or have business plans that are dependent on funding from the capital markets. If we are unable to collect receivables from telecommunications companies and our development stage customers, our operating results may be materially harmed. We frequently perform services for telecommunications companies and development stage customers that carry a higher degree of financial risk for us. Our customers, established and development stage, are subject to market risks and may be impacted by a tightening of available credit and/or a general economic slowdown. These conditions may render our customers unable to pay, or may delay payment, for services performed by us. If we are not able to collect amounts owed to us by our customers, we may be required to write off significant accounts receivable and recognize bad debt expense. We face intense competition from many competitors that have greater resources than we do, which could result in price reductions, reduced profitability and loss of market share. We face intense competition in the market for wireless network design and system deployment services. Wireless service providers themselves and system equipment vendors, some of whom are our customers, have developed and continue to develop capabilities competitive with those provided by us. Many competitors, including equipment vendors and system integrators, have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do and may use such greater resources to more effectively deliver a full turnkey solution. For example, a competitor that is able to provide equipment as part of its solution or to quickly deploy a large number of personnel for a project poses a threat to our business. As a result of intense competition, we continue to encounter and may be required to agree to less favorable contract terms, including provisions such as liquidated damages, performance guarantees and deferred payment terms. 17 If we are not able to compete effectively, our ability to attract and retain customers will be adversely affected, which will decrease our revenues and negatively affect our operating results. If we fail to manage the size of our billable workforce to anticipate increases or decreases in market demand for our services, it could harm our competitive position and financial results. If we maintain or increase billable staffing levels in anticipation of one or more projects and those projects are delayed, reduced or terminated, or otherwise do not materialize, we may underutilize these personnel, which would reduce our gross profit, harming our results of operations. It is extremely difficult to project accurately the demand for our services and, correspondingly, maintain an appropriately sized billable workforce. If we maintain a billable workforce sufficient to support a resurgence in demand and such demand does not materialize, then our expenses will be high relative to revenues. If we reduce the size of our billable workforce in response to any industry slowdown or decrease in the demand for services, then we may not maintain a sufficient number of skilled personnel to be able to effectively respond to any resurgence. As a result of these insufficient staffing levels, our competitive position in the industry could be negatively impacted and we could incur increased recruiting costs to replace our billable workforce. To the extent that we are unable to successfully anticipate increases or decreases in market demand for our services and manage the size of our billable workforce accordingly, we could lose customers to our competitors or underutilize our personnel. In either case, our financial results will suffer. We may not be able to successfully achieve the expected benefits of our future acquisitions, investments or strategic partnering relationships. We may make future acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies, capabilities or technologies or enter into strategic partnering relationships. Our strategy for acquisitions, investments and strategic partnering arrangements is designed to either: (i) allow us to expand our current service offerings into areas that offer attractive revenue opportunities; or (ii) accelerate our access to, and provide us with a local presence in, new markets. We have invested in building our global marketing and North American sales presence to capitalize on emerging opportunities and further enhance our sales capabilities in existing markets. Our new offerings in quality of service, quality of end user experience and spectrum clearing represent investments in new capabilities that may be supported by strategic partnerships with third parties. Despite these investments and efforts, we may not be able to successfully increase our service offerings or gain ground in new markets. Future acquisitions of new companies or technologies and future strategic partnering relationships may result in disruption to our business and expose us to risks associated with acquisitions and such relationships. Any future acquisitions, investments or strategic partnering relationships may require additional debt or equity financing, or the issuance of shares, which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, our operating results may suffer as a result of any acquisition-related costs or impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in connection with an acquisition. In addition, such activities could expose us to a number of other risks and challenges, including: • diversion of management’s attention and resources; • potential loss of key employees and customers of acquired companies; • difficult and costly integration of operations; • lack of experience operating in the geographic market or industry sector of an acquired business; • disputes with a strategic partner; • an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements; and • exposure to unanticipated contingent liabilities. Any of these and other factors could disrupt our business and harm our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, investment or strategic partnering relationship. 18 Our ability to reduce our general and administrative expenses is limited. Because a significant portion of our general and administrative expenses are relatively fixed, our ability to reduce those expenses in proportion to any decrease in the revenues we generate is limited. The enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and implementing regulations, has significantly increased the cost of being a public company. Such compliance is particularly challenging for us given the international scope of our operations and our overall cost of compliance relative to our size. Our international reach also brings a need for local general and administrative capabilities in both our employees and certain of our third party professionals, to accommodate local practices and comply with local legal requirements, including employment, tax and similar matters. We believe that our ability to reduce these expenses significantly without materially changing our strategy of localization and potentially jeopardizing our continued legal compliance is limited. As a result, we do not expect that we will always be able to reduce these expenses in proportion to significant decreases in our revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our net margins. Competitors that offer financing to wireless customers pose a threat to our ability to compete for business. Wireless service providers, particularly new providers and new licensees, depend increasingly on wireless telecommunications equipment vendors to supply and to finance the deployment of entire wireless networks. Frequently, those vendors only make financing available for services or products if they are contracted to provide the services themselves. For services the vendors do not provide directly, financing is provided only if they have the right to select the providers of those services and products, including radio frequency engineering and network deployment services. To the extent that wireless companies continue to seek such financing, it would harm our ability to compete for such business. Our inability to anticipate or adapt to changes in technology may harm our competitive position, reputation and opportunities for revenue growth. We operate in a highly competitive environment that is subject to rapid technological changes and the emergence of new technologies. Our future revenues depend significantly upon the adoption and deployment by wireless customers of new technologies. Our success will depend on our ability to timely enhance our current service offerings to keep pace with new technologies and the changing needs of our customers. If we are not successful in responding to technological changes or industry or marketplace developments, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could harm our reputation and opportunities for future revenue growth. We may not be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified engineers and other employees to meet our contractual commitments or maintain the quality of our services. As a service business our success depends significantly on our ability to attract, train and retain engineering, system deployment, managerial, marketing and sales personnel who have excellent technical skills, particularly as technology changes, as well as the interpersonal skills crucial to fostering client satisfaction. Competition within the wireless industry for employees with the required range of skills fluctuates, depending on customer needs, and can be intense, particularly for radio frequency engineers. At times we have had difficulty recruiting and retaining qualified technical personnel to properly and quickly staff large customer projects. In addition to recruitment difficulties, we must fully and properly train our employees according to our customers’ technology requirements and deploy and fully integrate each employee into our customers’ projects. Increased competition in the wireless industry is increasing the level of specific technical experience and training required to fulfill customer-staffing requirements. This process is costly and resource constraints may impede our ability to quickly and effectively train and deploy all of the personnel required to staff a large project. 19 Because we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, long sales cycles, we expect to incur significant costs to generate new business and our customer base may not experience growth commensurate with such costs. Purchases of our services by customers often entail a lengthy decision-making process for the customer. Selecting wireless network deployment services involves substantial costs and has strategic implications. Senior management of the customer is often involved in this process, given the importance of the decision, as well as the risks faced by the customer if the services do not meet the customer’s particular needs. We may expend substantial funds and effort to negotiate agreements for these services, but may ultimately be unable to consummate agreements for services and expand our customer base. In addition, we have increasingly been required to change both our personnel and the techniques we employ to respond to customer organizational changes and expanded geographic reach. Customer buying habits currently seem to favor a regionalized sales force, which can increase costs, and may prove to be ineffective. As a result of our lengthy sales cycles and these potential increased costs, we expect to continue to incur relatively high costs to generate new business. If wireless service providers, network equipment vendors and enterprises perform more tasks themselves, our business will suffer. Our success depends upon the continued trend by wireless service providers and network equipment vendors to outsource their network design, deployment and project management needs. If this trend does not continue or is reversed and wireless service providers and network equipment vendors elect to perform more tasks themselves, our operating results may be adversely affected due to the decline in the demand for our services. Government regulations may adversely affect our business. The wireless networks that we design, deploy and manage are subject to various FCC regulations in the United States and other international regulations. These regulations require that these networks meet certain radio frequency emission standards and not cause interference to other services, and in some cases accept interference from other services. Changes in the regulation of our activities, including changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the United States government and other governments or exclusion of our technology by a standards body, could harm our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. We may be unable to satisfy the accounting guidelines that govern the determination of the realizable value of a deferred tax asset in a given tax jurisdiction, thus eliminating our ability to recognize as an asset the tax benefit of operating losses in the same jurisdiction and causing a reduction in our overall consolidated profitability. There are stringent rules that govern the realizable value of a deferred tax asset. For example, in the U.S. the Company has a deferred tax asset of approximately $24.1 million related primarily to the benefit of prior years’ operating losses, However, because of the Company’s history of losses in the U.S., the realization of this asset is not assured beyond a reasonable doubt. Accordingly, a valuation allowance has been recorded in the financial statements as of December 31, 2007. If we fail to retain our key personnel and attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our ability to operate our business may be adversely affected. Our future success and our ability to sustain our revenue growth depend upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel or executive management in sufficient numbers, with the requisite skills or on acceptable terms necessary or advisable to support our continued growth. The loss of any of our key employees, in particular Dean J. Douglas our chief executive officer, could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate our business. 20 Our stock price and trading volume are volatile and could decline, resulting in a substantial loss on your investment. The stock market in general, and the market for technology-related stocks in particular, is highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. In addition, for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2007, the average daily trading volume for our stock as reported by The NASDAQ Global Market was 91,829 shares. Accordingly, the price of our stock and the trading volume of our stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies or companies deemed to be similar; • final resolution of amounts due from the sale of the Network Deployment business; • actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly operating results; • changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; • additions and departures of key personnel; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, consolidations, divestments, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments, or changes in business strategy; • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; • failure to file timely all reports required to be filed by the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission; • speculation in the press or investment community; • changes in accounting principles; • terrorist acts; • general market conditions, including economic factors unrelated to our performance; and • political or military events related to international conflicts, wars, or otherwise. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 