ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risk is an inherent part of Carver’s business and activities. The following is a summary of risk factors relevant to the Company’s operations which should be carefully reviewed. These risk factors do not necessarily appear in the order of importance. Changes in interest rate environment may negatively affect Carver’s net income, mortgage loan originations and valuation of available-for-sale securities. The Company’s earnings depend largely on the relationship between the yield on interest-earning assets, primarily our mortgage, construction and business loans and mortgage-backed securities, and the cost of deposits and borrowings. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence market interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of non-performing assets. Fluctuations in market interest rates affect customer demand for products and services. Carver is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that its interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than its interest-earning assets. In addition, the actual amount of time before mortgage, construction and business loans and mortgage-backed securities are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage prepayment rates and prevailing market interest rates. Mortgage prepayment rates will vary due to a number of factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, demographic variables and the ability to assume the underlying mortgages. However, the major factors affecting prepayment rates are prevailing interest rates, related loan refinancing opportunities and competition. The Company’s objective is to fund its liquidity needs primarily through lower costing deposit growth. However, from time to time Carver Federal borrows from the FHLB-NY. More recently, the cost of deposits and borrowings have become significantly higher with the rising interest rate environment, which has negatively impacted net interest income. During fiscal 2008, the Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”) lowered the federal funds rate six times (a total of 300 basis points). U.S. Treasury yields on five and ten year maturities continued to decline during fiscal 2008 from fiscal 2007; thirteen week maturities have also declined in fiscal 2008 from fiscal 2007. This has resulted in a change in the U.S. Treasury yield curve from a flat and at times inverted yield curve back to its typical upward slope. The Bank’s short-term borrowings, as well as its deposits, are generally priced relative to short-term U.S. Treasury yields, whereas its mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are generally priced relative to medium-term (two-to-five years) U.S. Treasury or FHLB yields. A flat or inverted yield curve could cause the Company's net interest income and net interest margin to contract, which could have a material adverse effect on its net income and cash flows, and the value of its assets. Interest rates are expected to continue to fluctuate and the Company cannot predict future Federal Reserve Bank actions or other factors that will cause rates to change. The estimated fair value of the Company's available-for-sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on changes in interest rates. Carver Federal’s securities portfolio is comprised primarily of adjustable rate securities. There has been an improvement in valuation of the Bank’s available for sale securities because interest rates have declined in fiscal 2008. Carver’s results of operations are affected by economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area. At March 31, 2008, a majority of the Bank’s lending portfolio was concentrated in the New York metropolitan area. As a result of this geographic concentration, Carver’s results of operations are largely dependent on economic conditions in this area. Decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans to its borrowers. Adverse changes in the economy caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control may also have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely mortgage or business loan payments, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Consequently, deterioration in economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, which could result in increased delinquencies, decreased interest income results as well as an adverse impact on loan loss experience with probable increased allowance for loan losses. Such deterioration also could adversely impact the demand for products and services, and, accordingly, further negatively affect results of operations. During fiscal 2008, the national real estate market in general has been in a decline compared to fiscal 2007. The slowdown in the general housing market is evidenced by reports of reduced levels of new and existing home sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, stagnant to declining property values and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. However, Carver Federal’s direct local real estate markets have been stable, which appears to be due in part to the limited availability of affordable housing alternatives in the markets in which Carver Federal operates. No assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income or an adverse impact on our loan losses. Strong competition within the Bank’s market areas could hurt expected profits and slow growth. The New York metropolitan area has a high density of financial institutions, a number of which are significantly larger than Carver Federal and with greater financial resources. Additionally, various large out-of-state financial institutions may continue to enter the New York metropolitan area market. All are considered competitors to varying degrees. Carver Federal faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Competition for loans, both locally and in the aggregate, comes principally from mortgage banking companies, commercial banks, savings banks and savings and loan associations. Most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. The Bank also faces competition for deposits from money market mutual funds and other corporate and government securities funds as well as from other financial intermediaries such as brokerage firms and insurance companies. Market area competition is a factor in pricing the Bank’s loans and deposits, which could reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more challenging to effectively grow loan and deposit balances. The Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market areas. 25 Table of Contents The Bank’s increased emphasis on non-residential, construction real estate lending and small business lending may create increased exposure to lending risks. At March 31, 2008, $397.4 million, or 62.7%, of our total loans receivable portfolio consisted of non-residential and construction real estate loans compared to $340.9 million, or 58.2%, at March 31, 2007. Non-residential and construction real estate loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than one- to four-family loans because they typically have larger balances and are more sensitive to changes in the economy. Payments on these loans often depend upon the successful operation and management of the underlying properties and the businesses which operate from within them; repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower's control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulation (see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). At March 31, 2008, $52.1 million, or 8.2%, of our total loans receivable consisted of business loans as compared to $51.2 million, or 8.7%, at March 31, 2007. The Bank increased its business loan portfolio during fiscal 2007 with the acquisition of CCB. Business loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than one- to four- family loans because they typically have larger balances and are more sensitive to changes in the economy. Payments on these loans often depend upon the successful operation and management of the underlying business; repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower's control, such as adverse economic conditions, increased competition or changes in government regulation (see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The Bank operates in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of our business activities. Carver Federal is subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OTS, the FDIC, and, to a lesser extent, by the New York State Banking Department. As a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and our depositors, and not to benefit our stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. In addition, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws. On October 4, 2006, the OTS and other federal bank regulatory authorities published the Interagency Guidance on Nontraditional Mortgage Product Risk, or the Guidance. In general, the Guidance applies to all residential mortgage loan products that allow borrowers to defer repayment of principal or interest. The Guidance describes sound practices for managing risk, as well as marketing, originating and servicing nontraditional mortgage products, which include, among other things, interest-only loans. The Guidance sets forth supervisory expectations with respect to loan terms and underwriting standards, portfolio and risk management practices and consumer protection. For example, the Guidance indicates that originating interest-only loans with reduced documentation is considered a layering of risk and that institutions are expected to demonstrate mitigating factors to support their underwriting decision and the borrower’s repayment capacity. Specifically, the Guidance indicates that a lender may accept a borrower’s statement as to the borrower’s income without obtaining verification only if there are mitigating factors that clearly minimize the need for direct verification of repayment capacity and that, for many borrowers, institutions should be able to readily document income. From time to time, we may originate interest-only and interest-only reduced documentation residential loans. We originate such loans for sale to investors, such as the Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae. We do not originate negative amortization or payment option loans. Reduced documentation loans include stated income, full asset, or SIFA loans; stated income, stated asset, or SISA loans; and Super Streamline loans. SIFA and SISA loans require a prospective borrower to complete a standard mortgage loan application while the Super Streamline product requires the completion of an abbreviated application and is in effect considered a “no documentation” loan. Each of these products requires the receipt of an appraisal of the real estate used as collateral for the mortgage loan and a credit report on the prospective borrower. The loans are priced according to our internal risk assessment of the loan giving consideration to the loan-to-value ratio, the potential borrower’s credit scores and various other credit criteria. SIFA loans require the verification of a potential borrower’s asset information on the loan application, but not the income information provided. The Bank has evaluated the Guidance for our compliance, risk management practices and underwriting guidelines as they relate to originations and purchases of the subject loans, or practices relating to communications with consumers. The Guidance has no impact on the Company's loan origination and purchase volumes or the Company's underwriting procedures currently or in future periods. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC increase the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practice. The Company has experienced, and expects to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including design, testing and audit costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For example, under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, beginning with this annual report on Form 10-K, the Company’s management is required to issue a report on the Company's internal controls over financial reporting. Beginning with Carver's fiscal 2010, Carver's management will also be required to file an auditors attestation report on the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. The Company expects the implementation of these new rules and regulations to continue to increase its accounting, legal, and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming, and costly. In the event that the Company is unable to maintain or achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, Carver’s profitability and the market price of Carver’s stock may be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents In addition, the rules adopted as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, which could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy may have a material effect on our results of operations. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is in the Company’s control. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws, including with respect to federal and state taxation, may cause results of operations to differ materially. In addition, cost of compliance could adversely affect Carver’s ability to operate profitably. Further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for Carver Federal, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System. A material change in any of these conditions could have a material impact on Carver Federal, and therefore on the Company’s results of operations. The Company is subject to certain risks with respect to liquidity. ''Liquidity'' refers to our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support our operations and to fulfill our obligations, including commitments to originate loans, to repay our wholesale borrowings, and to satisfy the withdrawal of deposits by our customers. Our primary sources of liquidity are the cash flows generated through the repayment of loans and securities; cash flows from the sale of loans and securities, typically in connection with the post-merger repositioning of our balance sheet; the deposits we acquire in connection with our acquisitions and those we gather organically through our branch network; and borrowed funds, primarily in the form of wholesale borrowings from the FHLB-NY. In addition, and depending on current market conditions, we have the ability to access the capital markets from time to time. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities are strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived; local and national economic conditions; and competition for deposits and loans in the markets we serve. Furthermore, changes to the FHLB-NY's underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings may limit or restrict our ability to borrow, and could therefore have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. A decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, and meet our expenses, or to fulfill such obligations as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends or lend funds to the Company is subject to regulatory limitations which may prevent the Company from making future dividend payments or principal and interest payments on its debt obligation. Carver is a unitary savings and loan association holding company regulated by the OTS and almost all of its operating assets are owned by Carver Federal. Carver relies primarily on dividends from the Bank to pay cash dividends to its stockholders, to engage in share repurchase programs and to pay principal and interest on its trust preferred debt obligation. The OTS regulates all capital distributions by the Bank to the Company, including dividend payments. As the subsidiary of a savings and loan association holding company, Carver Federal must file a notice or an application (depending on the proposed dividend amount) with the OTS prior to each capital distribution. The OTS will disallow any proposed dividend that would result in failure to meet the OTS’ minimum capital requirements. Based on Carver Federal's current financial condition, it is not expected that this provision will have any impact on the Company’s receipt of dividends from the Bank. Payment of dividends by Carver Federal also may be restricted at any time, at the discretion of the OTS, if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Carver’s income tax benefits risk. The Company’s receipt of the remaining New Markets Tax Credits income tax benefits over approximately the next six years depends on its ability to meet the NMTC compliance requirements and its ability to generate sufficient taxable income to utilize the tax credits from the NMTC investment. For additional information regarding Carver’s NMTC, refer to Item 7, “New Market Tax Credit Award.” Carver faces system failure risks and security risks. The computer systems and network infrastructure the Company and its third party service providers use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Fire, power loss or other failures may effect Carver’s computer equipment and other technology, or that of the Company’s third party service providers. Also, the Company’s computer systems and network infrastructure could be damaged by "hacking" and "identity theft" which could adversely affect the results of Carver’s operations, or that of the Company’s third party service providers. We may be required to record a charge to earnings if our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. Under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, if impairment of our goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets is determined we may be required to record a charge to earnings in the period of such determination. Our business could suffer if we fail to retain skilled people. The Company’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain key employees reflecting current market opportunities and challenges. Competition for the best people is intense, and the Company’s size and limited resources may present additional challenges in being able to retain the best possible employees which could adversely affect the results of our operations. 27 Table of Contents A natural disaster could harm Carver’s business. Natural disasters could harm the Company’s operations directly through interference with communications, as well as through the destruction of facilities and financial information systems. Such disasters may also have an impact on collateral underlying the Bank’s loans. The Company may face higher insurance costs in the event of such disasters. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 28 Table of Contents 