ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS WE MUST OVERCOME PRICING COMPETITION WITH RESPECT TO OUR ACCESS CONTROL PRODUCTS GROUP PRODUCTS. COMPETITIVE PRICING PRESSURES CAN CAUSE PROFIT EROSION. ACPG products compete against products sold by an increasing number of competitors on the basis of several factors including price. In order to compete in the marketplace, ACPG's products must provide superior technology at competitive prices. Failure to produce cost-effective products could adversely affect customer demand and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the competitive business arena could create pricing pressure for the ACPG products. A reduction in pricing of ACPG's products due to competitive pressures could have an adverse effect on our revenues, operating income and results of operations. WE MUST DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PRODUCTS TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE. IF WE FAIL TO DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS AND PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS ON A TIMELY BASIS, WE MAY LOSE MARKET SHARE. OUR INVESTMENT IN THE PINNACLE SOFTWARE SOLUTION MAY NOT REALIZE A RETURN ON INVESTMENT. The market for ACPG's Pinnacle software solution is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future success will depend to a substantial extent on our ability to: o invest significantly in research and product development; o develop, introduce and support new products and enhancements on a timely basis; and o gain and consecutively increase market acceptance of our products. Our ACPG division is currently developing new products and enhancements to its existing products. We may not be able to successfully complete the development and market introduction of new products or product enhancements. If we fail to develop and deploy new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, or if we fail to gain market acceptance of our new products, revenues will decline and we may lose market share to our competitors. There is no assurance that we will be successful in marketing and selling our Pinnacle software solution or other new products, that the revenues from the sales of the Pinnacle software solution or other new products will justify the investment, or that the sales of Pinnacle will continue to increase. THE AVAILABILITY AND PRICING OF COMPONENT PARTS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT PRODUCTION AND PROFITABILITY. Our ability to grow earnings will be affected by increases in the cost of component parts, including electronic components and circuit boards. We may not be able to offset fully the effects of higher component parts through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. FUTURE ACQUISITIONS MAY NOT BE FOUND OR MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATED INTO OUR BUSINESS AND COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We have pursued, and will continue to pursue, growth opportunities through attempted acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. We are unable to predict whether or when any other prospective acquisition will be completed, if at all. The process of integrating an acquired business may be prolonged due to unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our resources and management's attention. There can be no assurances that management will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into existing operations, or expand into new markets. Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability or productivity comparable to our existing business or otherwise perform as expected. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, future acquisitions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. Future acquisitions could result in the following, any of which could seriously harm our results of operations or the price of our stock: o issuance of equity securities that would dilute current stockholders' percentages of ownership; o large one-time write-offs; o the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; o difficulties in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies; o diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; o contractual disputes; o risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; and o potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. THE ACPG BUSINESS HAS INCURRED NET LOSSES. THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT IT WILL TURN PROFITABLE IN THE FUTURE. We (including the ACPG operations) have incurred losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. The ACPG business incurred net losses of $0.9 million, $1.0 million and $1.4 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Continued or increased net losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value and market price of our common stock. WE RELY ON LICENSES WITH THIRD PARTIES TO LICENSE SOFTWARE CODE THAT IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE ACPG BUSINESS'S PINNACLE SOFTWARE SOLUTION AND IF WE WOULD NEED TO SEEK ALTERNATE LICENSES, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We license certain software code that is an integral part of ACPG's Pinnacle software solution from third parties. In particular, we obtain from third party licensors certain software code included in the Pinnacle software solution, and the software for its badging products. We would need to seek alternative licensors for the software code if any of the third party licensors terminate or decides not to renew a license. If any of these third party licensors become unable to or refuses to license its code, it could interrupt and delay the development, design and delivery of the Pinnacle software solution and related products. Any such disruption could adversely affect our results of operations. CYCLICAL INDUSTRY AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our operating results may be affected adversely by the general cyclical pattern of the industries in which we operate. For example, demand for ACPG products and services is significantly affected by levels of commercial construction and consumer and business discretionary spending. The demand patterns of these markets could impact the revenues and margins in this business. SES RESOURCES INTERNATIONAL, INC. IS A NEWLY FORMED BUSINESS. As a newly formed organization, our subsidiary, SES Resources International, Inc., or SES, has no independent record of performance in the following service categories in which it is expected to specialize: o corporate investigations (e.g. know your customer, know your employee, know your vendor reviews); o due diligence reviews; o forensic accounting; anti-money laundering investigatory services consistent with the requirements of the Patriot Act; o anti-counterfeiting and intellectual property protection; o corporate health and wellness consultancy; o emergency preparedness and contingency planning; executive staffing solutions; and o education and government security training services As a new business, SES may not be successful in being engaged by prospective clients, which would have an adverse affect on revenues and results of operations. OUR SUCCESS IN THE SES BUSINESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO EXPAND THE SES ADVISORY PANEL. SES intends to deliver critical strategic security and business protection solutions based on best practices developed by accomplished retired law enforcement agents and in association with an Advisory Panel comprised of senior executive service level government risk assessment and law enforcement professionals. We may not be able to identify additional senior executive service law enforcement agents who are able to serve as Advisors on the Advisory Panel. Such inability would harm the development of the SES business in general, and prevent us from distinguishing ourselves in the marketplace in particular, which could adversely affect revenues and results of operations. SOME OF OUR COMPETITORS HAVE GREATER RESOURCES THAN WE HAVE, WHICH MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO EFFECTIVELY COMPETE WITH THEM. Some of our competitors have greater financial, personnel and other resources than we have, which may limit our ability to effectively compete with them. For example, our main competitors in the ACPG business include Tyco International Ltd. and Honeywell International Inc. These and other large competitors may be able to: o respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements; o benefit from greater economies of scale; o offer more aggressive pricing; and/or o devote greater resources to the promotion of their products. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR KEY PERSONNEL, THE LOSS OF WHOM COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT BUSINESS. We are dependent on our key personnel, including general management, software and hardware engineers, technical support and sales executives, who have significant industry experience, knowledge and know how. The loss of these key personnel could negatively affect business and results of operations. OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN DELISTED FROM NASDAQ, WHICH LIMITS THE MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK AND COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE ABILITY OF OUR STOCKHOLDERS TO RESELL OUR COMMON STOCK. Our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ National Market for failure to maintain certain listing requirements and a significantly reduced market price of common stock. The stock may be less liquid and more volatile as a result, and it may be more difficult to raise new operating funds in the public market. The common stock is presently quoted only on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board under the ticker symbol "LQCI.OB" and the ability of our stockholders to obtain liquidity and consistent market prices for our shares has been significantly impaired. In addition, our common stock may constitute "penny stock" (as defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act) if it fails to meet certain criteria set forth in such Rule. Various practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell "penny stocks" to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transactions prior to sale. Consequently, the Rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which could further affect the liquidity of the common stock. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO INCREASINGLY COMPLEX CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, PUBLIC DISCLOSURE, ACCOUNTING, AND TAX REQUIREMENTS THAT HAVE INCREASED BOTH COSTS AND THE RISK OF NONCOMPLIANCE. We are subject to rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the service on which our common stock is quoted. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service and NASD, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, significant legal, accounting and other expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. These rules and regulations also may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. We are subject to periodic audits or other reviews by such governmental agencies. The SEC periodically reviews our public company filings. Any such examination or review frequently requires management's time and diversion of internal resources and, in the event of an unfavorable outcome, may result in additional liabilities or adjustments to our historical financial results. RECENT CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING RULES, INCLUDING THE EXPENSING OF STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED TO OUR EMPLOYEES, COULD HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON OUR REPORTED BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. The U.S. generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the PCAOB, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. On December 15, 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R, Share-Based Payment, which requires us to measure compensation expense for employee stock options using the fair value method beginning the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, which is the quarter ended March 31, 2006. SFAS 123R applies to all outstanding stock options that are not vested at the effective date and grants of new stock options made subsequent to the effective date. As a result of SFAS 123R, we recorded higher levels of stock based compensation due to differences between the valuation methods of SFAS 123R and Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, or APB No. 25. In prior periods, we recorded any compensation expense associated with stock option grants to employees using the intrinsic value method in accordance with APB 25. WE HAVE BEEN NAMED AS A PARTY IN CERTAIN CLASS ACTION LAWSUITS WHICH COULD REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT MANAGEMENT TIME AND ATTENTION AND RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT LEGAL EXPENSES AND MAY RESULT IN AN UNFAVORABLE OUTCOME WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS. We are a defendant in certain purported class action lawsuits filed by individual shareholders in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against certain of our former officers and directors, and various of the underwriters in our initial public offering ("IPO") and secondary offering. The lawsuits have been filed by individual shareholders who purport to seek class action status on behalf of all other similarly situated persons who purchased our common stock between July 8, 1999 and December 6, 2000. A consolidated amended class action complaint was filed on April 19, 2002. The complaint alleges that certain underwriters of the IPO solicited and received excessive and undisclosed fees and commissions in connection with that offering. The complaint further alleges that the defendants violated the federal securities laws by issuing a registration statement and prospectus in connection with our IPO which failed to accurately disclose the amount and nature of the commissions and fees paid to the underwriter defendants. On or about October 8, 2002, the Court entered an Order dismissing the claims asserted against certain individual defendants in the consolidated actions without any payment from these individuals or us. On or about February 19, 2003, the Court entered an Order dismissing with prejudice the claims asserted against us under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act. As a result, the only claims that remain against us are those arising under Section 11 of the Securities Act. The parties have negotiated and executed a definitive settlement agreement. The proposed settlement provides that the class members in the class action cases brought against the participating issuer defendants will be guaranteed a recovery of $1 billion by insurers of the participating issuer defendants. If recoveries totaling $1 billion or more are obtained by the class members from the underwriter defendants, however, the monetary obligations to the class members under the proposed settlement will be satisfied. In addition, we and any other participating issuer defendants will be required to assign to the class members certain claims that they may have against the underwriters of their IPO's. The proposed settlement contemplates that any amounts necessary to fund the settlement or settlement-related expenses would come from participating issuers' directors and officers' liability insurance policy proceeds as opposed to funds of the participating issuer defendants themselves. A participating issuer defendant could be required to contribute to the costs of the settlement if that issuer's insurance coverage were insufficient to pay that issuer's allocable share of the settlement costs. If ultimately approved by the Court, the proposed settlement would result in the dismissal, with prejudice, of all claims in the litigation against us and all of the other issuer defendants who have elected to participate in the proposed settlement, together with the current or former officers and directors of participating issuers who were named as individual defendants. The proposed settlement does not provide for the resolution of any claims against the underwriter defendants, and the litigation as against those defendants is continuing. Consummation of the proposed settlement remains conditioned upon obtaining approval by the Court. By order entered on September 1, 2005, the Court granted preliminarily approval of the proposed settlement and directed that notice of the terms of the proposed settlement be provided to class members. Thereafter, the court held a fairness hearing, on April 24, 2006, at which objections to the proposed settlement were heard. The Court has yet to issue a ruling on the motion for final approval. On December 5, 2006, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the Court's order certifying a class in six test cases that were selected by the underwriter defendants and plaintiffs in the coordinated proceeding. The plaintiffs have filed a petition seeking rehearing of the Second Circuit's class certification ruling, and the District Court has ordered that all activity in the consolidated proceeding before it, including consideration of the proposed settlement, will be stayed pending the ruling on whether to entertain the petition for rehearing. The Company was not party to one of the test cases, and it is unclear what impact, if any, the Second Circuit's class certification ruling will have on our case or the viability of the proposed settlement. In the event the settlement is not finalized, the Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to plaintiffs' claims and intends to defend the action vigorously. The expense of defending this litigation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and defending us may divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND DELAWARE LAW COULD PREVENT OR DELAY A CHANGE IN CONTROL AND MAY REDUCE THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other business combination that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: o authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval; o limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; o prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; o prohibiting cumulative voting for the election of directors or any other matter submitted to a vote of stockholders unless required by the California General Corporation Law; and o requiring super-majority voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. We are incorporated in Delaware and certain provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with it, which may cause the market price of its common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 