Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that May Affect the Future Results of our Business Our revenue would decline significantly if we lose one or more of our most significant customers, which could have a significant adverse impact on us. A significant portion of our revenues are concentrated among three customers, Herbalife International of America, Inc., Costco Wholesale, Inc. and Sam’s Club. For the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, these customers represented approximately 74%, 86% and 80% of total revenue, respectively. The loss of any of these customers could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our senior management, the loss of whom would have an adverse effect on us. We presently are dependent upon the executive abilities of our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, E. Gerald Kay, and our other executive officers. Our business and operations to date chiefly have been implemented under the direction of these individuals, who presently are, and in the future will be, responsible for the implementation of our anticipated plans and programs. While we have obtained key-man life insurance in the amount of $1.0 million on the life of E. Gerald Kay, with our company as the named beneficiary, the loss or unavailability of the services of one or more of our principal executives would have an adverse effect on us. We may encounter difficulty in our ability to recruit and ultimately hire any replacement or additional executive officers having similar background, experience and qualifications as those of our current executive officers. There is no assurance that we will remain listed on an active trading market. Although our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market, there can be no assurance that we will, in the future, be able to meet all the requirements for continued quotation on that exchange. In the absence of an active trading market or if our common stock cannot be traded on the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock could instead be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the Pink Sheets. In such event, the liquidity and stock price in the secondary market may be adversely affected. In addition, in the event our common stock was de-listed; broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them which may discourage them from effecting transactions in our common stock and hence, could further limit the liquidity of our common stock. We may not receive approval for our pending patent applications for nutritional supplements, which could enable our competitors to use similar methods and processes. We are the registered owner of thirteen (13) issued U.S. patents and four (4) foreign patents directed to methods for accumulating metals in plant seedlings and nutritional formulations produced using the plant seedlings, or has rights to these patents in the field of nutritional supplements and one (1) issued patent directed to Virus-Induced Gene Slicing in Plants. In the area of protein production in plants, we also have twelve (12) patent utility applications and nine (9) provisional applications pending before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and nineteen (19) foreign applications currently pending. We can give no assurance that we will be granted such patents. To the extent we are not granted such patents, our competitors could more easily produce plant-based proteins similar to ours. 12 Our product candidates are at an early stage of development, and if we are not able to successfully develop and commercialize them, we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue our Biotechnology business segment. We currently have eight (8) internal product candidates as part of our AIPwLV™ technology platform, each of which is in an early stage of development. Our business depends primarily on our ability to successfully complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize our product candidates. If the studies described above or any further studies fail, if we do not obtain required regulatory approvals, or if we fail to commercialize any of our product candidates, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain profitability or continue our business operations and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decline We have entered into several transactions with entities controlled by some of our officers and directors, which could pose a conflict of interest. We have entered into several agreements and arrangements described in our previous SEC public filings and to be fully described in our proxy statement for our 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, including the lease of real property from Vitamin Realty Associates, L.L.C., the merger with NuCycle Acquisition Corp., and the acquisition of the Paxis business from Trade Investment Services, LLC, which involved transactions with entities significantly owned by members of the Kay family and other of our significant shareholders and/or executive officers, who collectively own a majority of our shares of common stock. Although we believe that these transactions were advantageous to us and were on terms no less favorable to us than could have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties, transactions with related parties can potentially pose a conflict of interest. Our Executive Officers and Directors have majority voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interest of other stockholders, but in their own interest. Our Executive Officers and Directors beneficially own approximately 64% of our outstanding shares. If these stockholders act together, they may be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders. We have a staggered Board of Directors, which could impede an attempt to acquire us or remove our management. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered term of three years. This division of our Board of Directors could have the effect of impeding an attempt to take over our company or change or remove management, since only one class will be elected annually. Thus, only approximately one-third of the existing Board of Directors could be replaced at any election of directors. 13 Our product liability insurance may be insufficient to cover possible claims against us. Our company, like other manufacturers, wholesalers and distributors of vitamin and nutritional supplement products and APIs, faces an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if, among other things, the use or ingestion of our products, result in sickness or injury. We currently maintain a product liability insurance policy that provides a total of $5.0 million of coverage per occurrence and $5.0 million of coverage in the aggregate. We also maintain a professional liability policy to insure our contract research services with similar insurance coverage. However, there can be no assurance that existing or future insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover any possible product liability risks or that such insurance will continue to be available to us on economically feasible terms. Our Nutraceutical products are manufactured using various raw materials consisting of vitamins, minerals, herbs, fruit extracts and other ingredients that we regard as safe when taken as recommended by us and that various scientific studies have suggested may provide health benefits. We could be adversely affected if any our products or any similar products distributed by other companies should prove or be asserted to be harmful to consumers or should scientific studies provide unfavorable findings regarding the effectiveness of our products. There is no assurance that we will be able to produce Paclitaxel on a commercial scale. Our InB:Paxis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. subsidiary uses botanical materials derived from the yew tree, or taxus canadensis, to produce Paclitaxel, a cancer therapy drug. Yew trees are in limited supply. Paxis has formed a joint venture with Chatham Biotec, Ltd. to produce extract and intermediate precursor Paclitaxel from Canadian Taxus trees. We can give no assurance that the joint venture will be successful in producing such Paclitaxel or that we can locate alternate sources of yew trees. We may not be able to obtain raw materials used in certain of our manufactured products. The principal raw materials used in the manufacturing process in the company’s Nutraceutical segment are natural and synthetic vitamins, minerals, herbs, related nutritional supplements, gelatin capsules, coating materials, fruit extracts, fruit juices and the necessary components for packaging the finished products. The raw materials are available from numerous sources within the United States and abroad. The gelatin capsules, coating materials and packaging materials are similarly widely available. The principal raw materials used in our Pharmaceutical segment are made up of a variety of materials used to develop and manufacture Paclitaxel. We entered into a joint venture agreement with a raw material supplier for our Paxis subsidiary. We generally purchase our raw materials, on a purchase order basis, without long-term commitments. Our principal suppliers in our Nutraceutical Segment are JD Moody Marketing Services, Inc., Triarco Industries, Inc., and DSM Nutritional Products, Inc. In connection with our Pharmaceutical Segment, botanical materials derived from the Canadian yew tree, or Taxus canadensis, are used to produce Paclitaxel. Canadian yew trees are in limited supply. Paxis has entered into a joint venture with Chatham Biotec, Ltd. to produce extract and intermediate precursor Paclitaxel from Canadian yew trees. We can give no assurance that the joint venture will be successful in producing such Paclitaxel extracts or intermediates, or that we can locate alternate sources of yew trees. 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 