Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely suffer. We will need funding during the second quarter of fiscal 2008, and there is no assurance that funding will be available. We have had recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows from operating activities in 2007 and 2006. Our senior credit facility was amended on February 14, 2008. The amendment, among other things, allowed for the liquidation of 158 stores, revised our borrowing base by adding a $10.0 million reserve, prohibits borrowing under our revolving line of credit until we provide projections and a business plan that are acceptable to our lender, and requires a monthly appraisal of our inventory. In order to execute our go forward plans, we will need to amend some of the restrictions in our current credit facility, or find alternative sources of credit, and raise additional capital during the second quarter. Without additional capital, we may run out of cash in the second quarter of 2008. These conditions led our independent registered public accounting firm to include an explanatory paragraph in its report expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are pursuing possible sources of funding, including possible sales of existing assets. However, there can be no assurance that additional funding will be available or can be obtained on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. We have not received an indication from the lender in our current credit facility that the lender will agree to amend the terms of the facility. If we are not able to obtain additional capital in the second quarter, we will not be able to continue our operations outside of bankruptcy. Under certain bankruptcy events, the Company may be required to redeem shares of its Preferred Stock at their liquidation value, which is the $45 million purchase price for those shares plus any accrued but unpaid dividends. However, the redemption would not be permitted by law, unless the Company is able to pay its debts as they come due, and would be prohibited by the terms of its existing credit facility. The Company’s financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional equity securities, the holdings of existing shareholders will be diluted. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market if we are unable to satisfy the minimum bid price requirements and, if we fail to do so, the price and liquidity of our common stock may decline. On February 15, 2008, we received notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market stating that for 30 consecutive business days our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). The notice had no effect on the listing of our securities at that time, and our common stock continues to trade on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “WLSN”. In accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), we have 180 calendar days, or until August 13, 2008, to regain compliance. The notice states that if, at any time before August 13, 2008, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that we have achieved compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. No assurance can be given that we will regain compliance during that period. As of April 7, 2008, our closing bid price was $0.19. If we do not regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement by August 13, 2008, Nasdaq staff will provide us with written notification that our securities will be delisted. At that time, we may appeal the delisting determination to a Listing Qualifications Panel. Alternatively, we may apply to transfer our securities to The Nasdaq Capital Market if we satisfy the requirements for initial inclusion set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c), other than the minimum bid price requirement of Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4). In such event, we will be afforded an additional 180 calendar days to comply with the minimum bid price requirement while listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market. No assurance can be given that we will be eligible for the additional 180-day compliance period, or, if applicable, that we will regain compliance during any additional compliance period. Delisting of our common stock would have a negative effect on the market price for our shares and could limit our ability to raise additional capital. 10 Table of Contents We have not yet determined what action, if any, we will take in response to this notice, although we intend to monitor the closing bid price of our common stock between now and August 13, 2008, and to consider available options if our common stock does not trade at a level likely to result in our regaining compliance with the Nasdaq minimum closing bid price requirement. We may not be able to exit store leases for the 158 liquidation stores on terms that are acceptable to us and to our lender. A key component of our restructuring efforts, and our ability to finance the conversion of our mall-based stores to the new accessories concept, relates to lease terminations and store liquidations for our 158 liquidation stores. Currently, we have not reached agreement with landlords with respect to any of the leases for our 158 liquidation stores. In addition, our lender has limited the aggregate amount that we may pay to exit such leases. We can make no assurances that we will be able to exit such leases on terms that are acceptable to us and our lender. We may not be able to utilize our tax net operating loss carryforwards. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards is limited under various provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, including Section 382. We have determined that changes in ownership under this section have occurred on June 4, 2003 and May 30, 2006. These ownership changes result in $37.0 million of the total $136.1 million net operating loss carryforward being limited. On an annual basis, approximately $4.1 million of the Section 382 limited net operating loss will become available for utilization. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional equity securities, the loss carryforwards as of February 2, 2008 may be subject to annual limitations that could significantly reduce the aggregate amount of carryforwards available to offset future taxable income, if any. We may not be able to expand our accessories business or acquire suitable accessories brands. In June 2007, we completed a $45.0 million Preferred Stock and Warrant financing. In addition to the influx of capital, this private placement brought us a large new investor, Goldner Hawn Private Equity, to assist in setting our long-term strategic direction. We expect that our future business strategy will build on our previously established initiative of expanding our accessories business. Analysis of our strategic alternatives related to our accessories business includes the potential acquisition of a small, established brand, the potential acquisition, joint venture or licensing agreement surrounding a larger, more well known brand and the offering of popular accessory designer brands. However, our ability to implement these strategies may be limited by our financial resources. As mentioned in “Financial Strategy — New Mall Accessories Store Concept,” we tested a new accessories concept in four of our stores during the 2007 holiday season. On February 15, 2008, we announced that we would liquidate up to 160 mall stores and use the proceeds of the liquidation sales to remodel our 100 remaining mall stores to this new accessories concept (see “Financial Strategy — Reorganization and Partial Store Liquidation”). This new accessories concept will be a designer brand driven store for women, focusing on fashion accessories with a limited selection of outerwear. We have kept only our best mall stores in the best locations for this new concept. Our plan is to remodel all 100 remaining mall stores this year into this new accessories concept, if we have sufficient capital. We believe that expansion of our accessories business through the new concept would attract new customers and improve comparable store sales. However, this strategy is in the early stages of development. There can be no assurance that we will be able to expand our accessories business through either greater acceptance of our new designer brand offerings or acquisition of a suitable accessories brand. If we are not able to successfully develop this new concept, we may not be able to obtain products from desirable designer brands. In addition, certain of our leases contain restrictions on the name we use and the products we sell that may be incompatible with our go forward plans. If we are not able to execute this strategy and attract additional customers, our comparable store sales, operating margins and cash flow will be adversely affected, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our growth is dependent on strengthening the operating performance of our existing stores and development of our accessories concept. Our ability to grow our existing business depends in part on our ability to appropriately identify, develop and effectively execute strategies and initiatives related to strengthening our stores’ operations and increasing brand acceptance. Our growth over the next several years depends on our ability to successfully and effectively manage our existing business by continuing to revitalize our mall and outlet stores, increase acceptance of our brand and the designer brands we offer and open new stores on a limited basis as opportunities arise. Our ability to grow our business will be limited, however, if we are unable to improve the sales performance and productivity of our existing stores. Failure to effectively identify, develop and execute strategies and initiatives may lead to increased operating costs without offsetting benefits and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our new mall accessories store strategy will be a designer brand driven store for women, focusing on fashion accessories with a limited selection of outerwear. These stores will feature popular designer brands and appeal to fashion conscious women. In our outlet stores, we are also going to offer new merchandise in both accessories and apparel. However, our ability to implement these strategies may be limited by our financial resources. If we are not able to develop our new strategies, attract customers through our new strategies and gain acceptance of our new accessories store concept, our comparable store sales, operating margins and cash flow will be adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our comparable store sales declined during each of the last three years. Our comparable store sales decreased by 10.4%, 17.2% and 2.9% in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our comparable store sales are affected by a variety of factors, including: • general economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; • consumer shopping preferences; • transition of our target customer base; • level of acceptance of our designer brand merchandise offerings; • level of acceptance of the Wilsons Leather brand; • actions by competitors or mall anchor tenants; • weather conditions; • fashion trends; • changes in our merchandise mix; • the timing of new store openings and the relative proportion of new stores to mature stores; • maintaining appropriate inventory levels; • calendar shifts of seasonal periods; and • timing of promotional events. A continued inability to generate comparable store sales increases in the future would erode operating margins if we were unable to implement additional cost reductions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon our key suppliers to implement our merchandising strategy to offer designer brands in our stores’ accessories and outerwear product mix. Our new accessories concept will be a 100% designer brand driven store for women, focusing on fashion accessories with a limited selection of outerwear. These stores will feature popular designer brands and appeal to fashion conscious women. We believe that in offering these designer brands, we will generate additional traffic in our stores. The successful implementation of this designer brand strategy will depend on our relationships with our 12 Table of Contents key suppliers. Our inability to successfully integrate additional designer brands into our accessories and outerwear merchandise mix may limit acceptance of our new accessories concept, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in customer shopping patterns could harm our sales. Most of our stores are located in enclosed shopping malls and regional outlet centers. Our ability to sustain or increase the level of sales depends in part on the continued popularity of malls and outlet centers as shopping destinations and the ability of malls and outlet centers, tenants and other attractions to generate a high volume of customer traffic. Many factors beyond our control may decrease mall traffic, including, among other things, economic downturns, rising energy prices, the closing of anchor department stores, weather, concerns of terrorist attacks, construction and accessibility to strip malls, or alternative shopping formats (such as catalogs, e-commerce or discount stores). Any changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We may need to record additional impairment losses in the future if our stores’ operating performance does not improve. We continually review our stores’ operating performance and evaluate the carrying value of their assets in relation to their expected future cash flows. In those cases where circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the applicable assets may not be recoverable, we record an impairment loss related to the long-lived assets. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded an impairment loss of $19.7 million. This impairment loss was comprised of: 1) all of the assets located at the liquidation stores, 2) all of the non-inventory assets located at our 100 remaining mall stores and 3) all of the non-inventory assets at four of our outlet stores. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded an impairment loss of $0.7 million related to certain of our mall store assets. These impairment losses are described in greater detail in Note 1, “Summary of significant accounting policies — store closing and impairment of long-lived assets,” contained in our consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-8 of this report. If our stores’ operating performance does not improve in the future, the carrying value of our stores’ assets may not be recoverable in light of future expected cash flows. This may result in our need to record additional impairment losses in certain markets where our stores operate that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. The high level of competition in our markets may lead to reduced sales and profits. The retail leather outerwear, accessories and apparel markets are highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with a broad range of other retailers, including other specialty retailers, department stores, mass merchandisers and discounters, many of which have greater financial and other resources. Increased competition may reduce sales, increase operating expenses, decrease profit margins, and negatively affect our ability to obtain site locations, sales associates and other employees. Over the past few years, mall traffic has been trending downward, off-mall retail venues have gained popularity and competition has continued to increase from non-specialty discounters and mass merchandisers as they have significantly expanded into the leather outerwear category at promotional price points. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future and, if we are unable to do so, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Uncertainty in general economic conditions may lead to reduced consumer demand for our outerwear, accessories and apparel and could adversely affect our business and liquidity. Meeting our future capital requirements depends on the sustained demand for our products. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending on our products, including, among others: • general economic conditions, including recessionary periods; • rising energy prices; • interest rates; 13 Table of Contents • the availability of consumer credit; • continued hostilities in the Middle East and other significant national and international events; and • taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, such as our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is lower. Any uncertainties in the United States’ economic outlook can adversely affect consumer spending habits and mall traffic and result in lower than expected net sales on a quarterly and annual basis. Increased energy prices put additional pressure on consumer purchases of discretionary items, which could adversely affect our net sales. In addition, these higher energy costs may have the potential to increase our shipping and delivery costs and could adversely affect our merchandise margins if we are unable to pass these costs on to our customers. Unseasonably warm weather, particularly during the fall and winter, has in the past and may in the future negatively effect our sales performance. Unseasonably warm weather during the fall and winter season has negatively impacted our comparable store sales and total net sales performance in the past. While we are striving to mitigate our dependence on outerwear, as evidenced by our new mall accessories store concept, we will continue to sell a limited selection of outerwear in our mall stores and a larger selection in our outlet stores. Continued warm weather trends in the future may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to effectively respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer demands could adversely affect our sales. Our success, including acceptance of our new mall accessories store strategy, depends on our ability to identify fashion and product trends as well as our ability to anticipate, gauge and react swiftly to changes in consumer demand. Our products must remain appealing for a broad range of consumers with diverse and changing preferences; however, our orders for products must be placed in advance of customer purchases. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify new fashion trends and adjust our product mix in a timely manner. If we misjudge market preferences, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for other products. In response, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventories. In addition, consumer sentiment toward and demand for leather and designer brand offerings may change and we may not be able to react to any such changes effectively, or at all. There can be no assurance that demand for our products and designer brand offerings will not decline as a result of negative publicity regarding certain diseases that may affect the supply of hides used to make leather products such as mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease. If we are unable to anticipate, gauge and respond to changes in demand or if we misjudge fashion trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A decrease in the availability of leather or an increase in its price could harm our business. The cost of leather comprises a significant portion of our overall merchandise cost. A number of factors affect the price of leather, including the demand for leather in the shoe, furniture and automobile upholstery industries. In addition, leather supply is influenced by worldwide meat consumption and the availability of hides. Fluctuations in leather supply and pricing, which can be significant, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our transition to our new accessories concept will reduce our reliance on leather. We could have difficulty obtaining merchandise from our foreign suppliers. We import our outerwear and accessories from independent foreign contract manufacturers located primarily in China and India. We do not have long-term contracts or formal supply arrangements with our contract manufacturers. In 2007, approximately 65% of our outerwear and accessories contracted for manufacture were 14 Table of Contents purchased from foreign suppliers, with approximately 56% purchased from China and 7% purchased from India. With our shift toward designer brand merchandise going forward, we will significantly reduce the volume of private label merchandise we source from overseas vendors. The majority of our product will be purchased from third party, domestic vendors. However, the majority of this product will still be manufactured overseas in places like China and India. Trade relations with China and India have, in the past, been contentious. If trade relations with these countries or any other country from which we purchase goods, either directly or indirectly, deteriorate, or if any new or additional duties, quotas or taxes are imposed on imports from these countries, leather purchase and production costs could increase significantly, negatively impacting our sales prices, profitability or the demand for leather merchandise and designer brand offerings. Further, we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to trade restrictions imposed by the United States government, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions, or whether any other conditions having an adverse effect on our ability to purchase products will occur. Certain other risks related to foreign sourcing and purchasing include: • transportation delays and interruptions, including delays relating to labor disputes; • economic and political instability; • restrictive actions by foreign governments; • trade and foreign tax laws; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and restrictions on the transfer of funds; and • the possibility of boycotts or other actions prompted by domestic concerns regarding foreign labor practices or other conditions beyond our control. Any event causing a sudden disruption of imports from China, India or other foreign countries, including a disruption due to financial difficulties of a supplier or a catastrophic event (such as, but not limited to, a fire, tornado, flood, or act of terrorism) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed due to a dockworkers’ strike or other similar work action, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution center and stores. The seasonality of our business could affect our profitability. Since our leather outerwear and apparel products are most often purchased during the holiday season, we experience substantial fluctuations in our sales and profitability. We generate a significant portion of our net sales from October through January, which includes the holiday selling season. We generated 50.4% of our annual net sales during that time period in 2007, and 23.5% in December alone. While we are striving to mitigate our dependence on outerwear, as evidenced by our new mall accessories store concept, we will continue to sell a limited selection of outerwear in our mall stores and a larger selection in our outlet stores. Because our profitability, if any, is historically derived in the fourth quarter, our annual results of operations have been, and will continue to be, heavily dependent on the results of operations from October through January. Given the seasonality of our business, misjudgments in fashion trends, the effects of war and other significant national and international events or unseasonably warm or severe weather during our peak selling season could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including: • merchandise mix offered during the peak selling season; • the timing and level of markdowns and promotions by us during the peak selling season; • the timing and level of markdowns and promotions by our competitors during the peak selling season; • consumer shopping patterns and preferences; • the timing of certain holidays; and 15 Table of Contents • the number of shopping days and weekends between Thanksgiving and Christmas. The public sale of our common stock issued pursuant to our employee benefit plans or the sale into the market of the shares issued in our equity financing in April 2004 or issuable upon exercise of the warrants delivered in connection with our April 2004 equity financing, as well as shares issuable upon conversion of the Preferred Stock and exercise of the Warrants issued in connection with the June 2007 preferred stock financing described in this report, could decrease the price of our common stock or make it more difficult to obtain additional financing in the future. As of February 2, 2008, 1,471,660 shares were subject to issuance upon the exercise of vested stock options previously granted by us, all of which would be freely tradable if issued, subject to compliance with Rule 144 in the case of our affiliates. In addition, 1,054,516 shares of our common stock have been reserved for issuance pursuant to our employee benefit plans. In connection with the April 2004 equity financing which was completed on July 2, 2004, we issued 17,948,718 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase four million shares of our common stock, subject to certain adjustments, to three institutional investors. With the June 15, 2007 Preferred Stock and Warrant financing described in this report, we issued shares of Preferred Stock that are initially convertible into 30 million shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 15 million shares of common stock, which Preferred Stock and Warrants are subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. The Preferred Stock is entitled to payment-in-kind cumulative dividends of 8.0% per year, issuable semi-annually, payable in shares of preferred stock, that will increase the number of common shares upon conversion. As of February 2, 2008, there were 46,667 shares of preferred stock outstanding that were convertible into 31.1 million shares of common stock. Our Preferred Stock is convertible into shares of common stock at a conversion price of $1.50 per share and the warrants have an exercise price of $2.00 per share; however, these conversion and exercise prices are subject to anti-dilution adjustments in the event of stock issuances below either the market price or the conversion or exercise price. In addition, in connection with such financing, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants issued in the April 2004 equity financing increased by approximately one million shares to approximately five million. If we raise capital through the sale of equity, which due to the current market price of our common stock would likely occur at a price below the conversion price and exercise price of our Preferred Stock and warrants, our current shareholders will face further dilution, and this dilution may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of market sales of such shares of common stock or the perception that such sales will occur. Such sales or the perception that such sales might occur also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Our management must select and apply many of these accounting policies and methods so that they not only comply with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, but they also reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances, yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. Note 1, “Summary of significant accounting policies,” to our consolidated financial statements describes our significant accounting policies. We have identified two accounting policies as being “critical” to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective and/or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to the valuation of inventory and the valuation of property and equipment for impairment. Because of the uncertainty of estimates about these matters, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not: • significantly increase our lower of cost or market allowance for slow moving or obsolete inventory; or 16 Table of Contents • recognize a significant fixed asset impairment charge. For more information, refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.” Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in those principles could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our current senior management team. The loss of service of any of these persons could adversely affect our business. Our Chief Executive Officer resigned effective April 3, 2008, and we do not currently have a President or Chief Executive Officer. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any members of our senior management team. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated. Four of our investors beneficially owned, in the aggregate, 81.0% of our common stock as of April 1, 2008. These investors include: Marathon Fund Limited Partnership V (“Marathon,” owned and managed by Goldner Hawn Private Equity), Peninsula Investment Partners, L.P. (“Peninsula”), Quaker Capital Partners I, L. P., and Quaker Capital Partners II, L. P. (collectively “Quaker”). All of these investors are represented on our board and a support agreement exists among the investors that requires Peninsula and Quaker to vote with Marathon on various matters including election of two members to our board and certain defined transactions including the sale of the Company. These investors voting together would be able to exert significant influence over our business and affairs, including: • the election of individuals to our board of directors; • the adoption of amendments to our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation; and • the approval of certain mergers, additional financing, sales of assets, and other business acquisitions or dispositions. In addition, the ownership concentration of our stock may limit liquidity and cause shareholders to experience fluctuations when selling large blocks of our stock. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. Our stock price has been, and is expected to continue to be, highly volatile. There could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price as a result of: • any future sales of our common stock or other securities; • a decline in any quarter of our net sales or earnings; • a decline in any quarter of comparable store sales; • a deviation in our net sales, earnings or comparable store sales from levels expected by securities analysts; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of other companies in the same or similar markets; 17 Table of Contents • our inability to develop our new mall accessories store concept and the market perception of this new concept; or • difficulty obtaining alternative funding sources or other limitations on our liquidity. In addition, the Nasdaq Global Marketsm has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. Future market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. Such volatility may limit our future ability to raise additional capital. We rely on third parties for upgrading and maintaining our information systems. The efficient operation of our business is heavily dependent on our information systems. In particular, we rely heavily on the automated sortation system used in our Brooklyn Park, Minnesota distribution center and the merchandise management system used to track sales and inventory. We also rely on a third-party package for our accounting, financial reporting and human resource functions. We depend on our vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade these systems so that these systems continue to support our business. The software programs supporting our automated sorting equipment and processing our inventory management information are licensed to us by independent software developers. The inability of these developers to continue to maintain and upgrade these software programs would disrupt our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. War, acts of terrorism or the threat of either may negatively impact the availability of merchandise and otherwise adversely impact our business. In the event of war or acts of terrorism, or if either is threatened, our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores may be negatively affected. We import a substantial portion of our merchandise from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be adversely affected. The majority of our stores are located in enclosed shopping malls and regional outlet centers. In response to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, security has been heightened in public areas. Any further threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events, particularly in public areas, could lead to lower customer traffic in shopping malls and outlet centers. In addition, local authorities or mall management could close shopping malls and outlet centers in response to any immediate security concern. Mall closures, as well as lower customer traffic due to security concerns, could result in decreased sales that would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant interruption in the operation of our corporate offices and distribution center could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our corporate offices and our Brooklyn Park, Minnesota distribution center are in one location. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected if a catastrophic event (such as, but not limited to, a fire, tornado, flood, or act of terrorism) impacts the use of these facilities. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining alternative facilities in a timely manner if such a catastrophic event were to occur. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 