D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this report. Depending on the extent to which any of the following risks materializes, our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations could suffer and you could lose all or part of your investment in our shares. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS A decline in general economic and business conditions, or a significant fluctuation in currency exchange rates, may cause a reduction in corporate spending on information technology infrastructure, which would cause our revenue and earnings to decrease, or to grow more slowly. Such a reduction could also increase quarterly fluctuations in our results. The deployment of a Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) solution may represent a large portion of a customer’s investments in software technology. Decisions to make such an investment are impacted by the economic environments in which our customers operate. Any important business slowdown or recession, or a significant fluctuation in currency exchange rates, particularly as between the U.S. dollar and the euro, could lead our customers to reduce, defer or cancel their investments in information technology. A decline 10 DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Form 20-F 2005 Back to Contents in such investments could cause our revenue, net earnings and cash flows to decrease, or to grow more slowly, whether on an annual or quarterly basis. Over the past few years, the growth rate of the gross domestic product (GDP) of our major European markets has remained relatively weak. Although trends in business investment spending, and in our own revenues in these markets have not followed the GDP trend in the recent past, the continued weakness in the overall economic environment may lead to a reduction in corporate spending for information technology, including for our products and services. The ongoing economic weakness in Europe may thus adversely affect our future revenues and earnings. Similarly, weakness in the overall economic environment in any of our major markets, or a decline in business investment spending, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Due to their specific investment cycles and sensitivities to short-term economic conditions, the various industrial sectors we serve have different degrees of exposure to declines in corporate investment, both in terms of intensity and timing. Although these differences have in recent years generally assisted us in avoiding the potential negative impact of downturns in any particular industry, significant down cycles in several key industrial sectors might in the future occur over roughly the same period, which could cause our revenues, net income and cash flow for such period to decline. For the year 2005, approximately 52% of our revenue resulted from a long-standing, mutually non-exclusive marketing and distribution agreement with IBM. As our business grows and develops, our relationship with IBM continues to evolve, as in 2005 when we assumed a greater role in managing the marketing and distribution of our PLM products and services. Further changes in our relationship with IBM, or an insufficient commitment of resources by IBM to the marketing and sale of our PLM products, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to our long-standing, mutually non-exclusive agreement, IBM markets and distributes a substantial portion of our PLM products worldwide, primarily CATIA, ENOVIA and SMARTEAM. According to the terms of the agreement, we license these products to IBM, who then sub-licenses them to end-users. Revenue generated through our agreement with IBM represented 52%, 56%, and 59% of our total revenue in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. IBM markets and distributes our PLM products and services through IBM PLM, an organization within IBM dedicated primarily to the marketing and distribution of Dassault Systèmes products, and through IBM distribution partners, known as “IBM Business Partners”. IBM has substantial discretion and control over such marketing and distribution, including the financial resources devoted to marketing and sales, the selection of marketing and distribution channels and the compensation of its sales personnel and distribution partners. If IBM does not invest sufficiently to develop PLM revenues from our products, we may have to intensify our direct and other external sales efforts at the risk of creating sales channel conflicts and generating additional operating costs impacting our earnings. In addition, a decision by IBM to cease, freeze, or reduce substantially its marketing and distribution efforts for our PLM products would have an immediate and material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to establish effective alternative distribution channels rapidly and the establishment of such channels would require significant management and financial resources. In mid-2005 we agreed to act as Channel Management Provider (CMP) to IBM. Under the CMP agreement, we manage the marketing and distribution of our PLM products by the IBM Business Partner network in a number of countries in Europe and in the United States. As reflected by the CMP agreement, our relationship with IBM, which has been a core element of our business model, evolves as our business grows and develops, thereby exposing us to new management challenges and greater responsibility for the marketing and sales of our PLM products. In addition, in 2005 we began to sell directly to a network of resellers in China, Australia and New Zealand. In 2006, we further expanded our direct distribution to include Taiwan and Latin America. Further changes in roles and responsibilities, such as the further expansion of our direct sales activities, could cause disruptions and negatively affect our relationship with IBM and the sales organization’s performance, which could have a material adverse impact on our revenues. Furthermore, IBM is not prohibited from competing with us, marketing and distributing other competing PLM software applications, providing services around other competing PLM software applications, or acquiring or forming a strategic alliance with one or more of our competitors. In early 2006, one of our competitors announced an agreement with IBM in China and selected market verticals. If we do not anticipate, develop or take advantage of new technological opportunities to respond effectively to our customers’ increasingly complex requirements, demand for our products may be reduced, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. PLM solutions are characterized by the use of rapidly changing technologies and frequent new product introductions or enhancements. These solutions must address complex engineering needs in various areas of product design and manufacturing, and must also meet sophisticated process requirements in the areas of change management, industry collaboration and cross enterprise work. DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Form 20-F 2005 11 Back to Contents As a result, our success is highly dependent upon our ability: • to understand our customers’ needs, and support them in reengineering key product lifecycle processes and managing the migration of substantial amounts of data; • to enhance our existing solutions by developing more advanced technologies; • to anticipate and take timely advantage of quickly evolving technologies; and • to introduce new solutions in a cost-effective and timely manner. We commit substantial resources to the development of new offerings, but we continue to face the challenge of increasingly complex integration of our products’ different functionalities to address our customers’ PLM requirements. As a result, longer and more difficult industrialization work is required for new releases and offerings. In addition, if we are not successful in anticipating technological leaps and developing new solutions and services that address our customers’ increasingly sophisticated expectations, demand for our products could decline, and our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively affected. Errors or defects in our products could cause us to incur additional costs, lose customers, revenue and business opportunities and expose us to potential liability. Sophisticated software often contains errors, defects or other performance problems when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. If errors or defects are discovered in our current or future products, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner, or provide an adequate response to our customers. We may therefore need to expend significant financial, technical and management resources, or divert some of our development resources, in order to resolve or work around those defects. We may also experience an increase in our service and warranty costs. Errors, defects or other performance problems in our products may also result in the loss of, or delay in, the market acceptance of our products or postponement of customer deployment. Such difficuties could also cause us to lose customers and, particularly in the case of our largest customers, the potentially substantial associated revenues which would have been generated by our sales to companies participating in the customer’s supply chain. Technical problems, or the loss of a customer with a particularly important global reputation, could also damage our own business reputation and cause us to lose new business opportunities. Because errors, defects or other performance problems in our software could result in significant financial or other damage to our customers, our customers could pursue claims against us. A product liability claim brought against us, even if not successful, would likely be time consuming for our management and costly to defend and could adversely affect our marketing efforts. Any insurance we carry may only partially offset the cost of correcting significant errors. Currency fluctuations may significantly affect our results of operations, since we generate revenue and incur expenses in currencies other than the euro. Our results of operations have been, and may in the future be, significantly affected by changes in exchange rates. Exchange rate fluctuations can impact the revenues and expenses recorded in our statement of income upon translation of other currencies into euro. Although we currently benefit from a natural coverage of most of our exposure to U.S. dollars, our revenues denominated in Japanese Yen, Korean Won and British Pounds substantially outweigh our expenditures in these currencies, which exposes our financial results to a potential depreciation in their value relative to the euro. Our net financial revenue can also be significantly affected by changes in exchange rates between the time we recognize revenue and receive cash payments or record and pay an expense. Any such differences are accounted for in the “Exchange gain/loss” portion of our financial revenue. See “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Foreign currency exchange risk”. Since market growth rates for our software applications and the revenue growth rates of our significant competitors are computed in U.S. dollars, such growth rates from period to period may not be comparable to our euro-computed revenue growth rates for the same periods. Claims that our products, or any third-party components embedded in our products, infringe the proprietary rights of others could harm our sales and increase our costs and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Form 20-F 2005 Back to Contents Third parties, including our competitors, may own or obtain copyrights, patents or other proprietary rights that could restrict our ability to further develop, use, or sell our own product portfolio. We have received in the past, and may in the future receive, communications alleging that our products infringe the patents and other intellectual property rights of others. Such a claim could cause us to incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in any litigation which may be brought, regardless of its merits. If we fail to prevail in intellectual property litigation, we may be required to: • cease making, licensing or using the products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which licenses might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all; or • redesign our products, which could involve substantial costs and require us to interrupt product licensing and product releases, or which might not be feasible at all. In addition, we embed in our products an increasing number of third party components selected either by us or by companies which we have acquired. Although we have implemented strict approval processes to certify the originality of third party components and verify any corresponding licensing terms, the same approval processes may not have been adopted by companies which we acquire. As a result, the use of third party embedded components in our products exposes us to the risk that a third party will claim that the embedded components infringe their intellectual property rights. If any of the above situations were to occur for a significant product, it could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitive market position could be harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary software technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret law and contractual restrictions to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These legal protections afford only limited protection. In addition, effective copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries where intellectual property rights are less protected than in the United States or Western Europe, or as a result of the prior rights of third parties. If we fail to adequately protect our technology, third parties may develop similar technology and cause a reduction in our software revenues. Furthermore, although we enter into confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, distributors, customers and potential customers, and limit access to and carefully control the distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information, the measures we take may not be adequate to deter misappropriation or independent third party development of our technology. In addition, like most of our competitors, we face an increasing level of piracy of our successful products, both by individuals and by groups acting worldwide, which could potentially affect our growth in specific markets. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could seriously harm our operating results. We may not prevail in any such litigation and our intellectual property rights may be found invalid or unenforceable. The regulatory environment for listed companies has become increasingly complex and is subject to change. Modification in the applicable standards, rules or interpretations may require us to modify our accounting policies and business practices, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Implementation of regulatory requirements is costly and any reported deficiencies may have a negative adverse effect on our stock price. Since January 1, 2005, we report according to both International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and U.S. GAAP. The applicable IFRS and U.S. GAAP accounting standards and related interpretations are highly complex and continue to evolve. The reporting requirements may be contradictory or ambiguous. We review our compliance with all new and existing accounting rules and pronouncements on an ongoing basis. Depending on the outcome of these ongoing reviews, and the potential issuance of further accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations, particularly with respect to revenue recognition, scope of consolidation, and stock-based compensation, we may be required to modify our accounting policies and business practices, including license terms and conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial reporting. Our current accounting policies are described in “Item 5A: Operating Results - Critical Accounting Policies” and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Form 20-F 2005 13 Back to Contents We are currently working on the documentation and evaluation of our internal controls procedures in order to be ready for the Sarbanes-Oxley certification for 2006. Despite our efforts and investments regarding these procedures, and because of the complexity of the regulatory environment, we may encounter deficiencies that we would then report and which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the market value of our shares. We expect our quarterly operating results to continue to fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly and are likely to vary significantly in the future, depending on factors such as: • the number, timing and significance of product enhancements or new products that we develop or that are released by our competitors; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products and customer order deferrals in anticipation of these new or enhanced products; • the timing and cyclical nature of revenues received due to the signing of important new customer orders, the completion of major service contracts or the completion of customer deployments; • the timing of announcements regarding any significant acquisitions or divestitures; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and • general conditions in our software markets, the software industry generally and computer industries and regional economies. A substantial portion of our orders and shipments typically occur in the last month of each quarter and therefore, if any delay occurs in the timing of the order, we may experience significant quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. Additionally, as is typical in the software applications industry, we have historically experienced our highest licensing activity for the year during the month of December. Delays in orders and shipments can affect our revenue and income. The trading price of our shares and ADSs may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating results of other software applications developers in our markets. In addition, capital markets around the world experience from time to time extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may particularly affect the market prices for many high technology companies which have become highly volatile. Because we rely on IBM to provide us information as to the level of a significant portion of our revenue, we generally are not in a position to know our revenue for any particular period within the same timeframe as would otherwise be possible. As a result, we may not be able to confirm or adjust expectations as to sales achieved for a particular period as quickly as we otherwise could, or within the same timeframe as some other companies in our industry. As a result of our strategy of partnering with other companies for product development, marketing and services, our products and business development could be adversely affected if we experience difficulties with our partners. Our PLM strategy requires fully integrated solutions of computer-aided-design and manufacturing and data management products, which are themselves increasingly complex. To implement our PLM strategy, we have chosen to partner with other companies in such areas as: • hardware and technology, to maximize our benefits from available technology; • product development, to enable software developers to create and market their own software applications using our key product architecture; • consulting and services, to support customers adapting and deploying PLM solutions; and • marketing and distribution to promote our solutions outside IBM channels. We believe that our partnering strategy allows us to reduce costs while achieving broader market coverage. Our broad partnering strategy creates a degree of dependency on such partners. Serious difficulties in our relationships with our partners, or an unfavorable change of control of our partners, may adversely affect our products or business development. In addition, any failure by our partners to deliver products of the quality or according to the timing expected may cause delays in the delivery of, or deficiencies in, our own products. 14 DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Form 20-F 2005 Back to Contents If we are unable to hire or retain our key personnel and executives, or if we experience difficulties in our employee relationships generally at one of our major sites, our business activities and operating results may be negatively affected. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key managers and highly qualified research and development, technical, support, sales management and other personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. The competition for such employees is intense, and if we lose the ability to hire and retain key employees and executives with a diversity and high level of skills in appropriate domains (such as research and development and sales), it could have a material adverse impact on our business activities and operating results. We generally do not maintain insurance with respect to the loss of our key personnel. The continuous growth of our Group, internally and externally, adds complexity to our organization and may make consistent management and appropriate visibility with respect to our operations and strategy more difficult. Risks associated with external growth through acquisitions, as well as changes in the organization of the Group, may adversely affect our business or financial performance. We continue to grow internally in our markets around the world. This continuous growth in terms of revenues, employees and operations creates increasing complexity for us as we take measures to ensure consistency of our various offerings, control of our operations and appropriate follow-up of return on investments. We also continue to reorganize our Group structure in order to maintain efficiency and remain focused on our strategy. The integration of newly acquired companies or businesses, as well as the management of divestments, is challenging and consuming both in terms of management time and control systems and requires careful attention to management integration and employee retention. Finally, we may use significant financial resources, make potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or incur debt to realize future acquisitions or investments. These transactions may also cause us to incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets other than goodwill, or generate goodwill subject to annual (or more frequent) impairment tests. Minority interests or other investments in unaffiliated partners may also have to be written down in our accounts as a result of impairment. Acquired companies may also carry the risk of unanticipated or contingent liabilities, including litigation risk related to prior events (see above the risk of claims that embedded components violate third-party intellectual property rights, and “Item 5D. Trend Information - MatrixOne Acquisition and Expansion of Our ENOVIA Brand”). Each of these potential consequences of an investment or acquisition could reduce our operating margin or net income. Also, due to local regulatory constraints, a planned acquisition might not be realized as anticipated or at all. A decrease in prices, a longer sales cycle and changes in the competitive environment could negatively impact revenue growth, financial performance and market position. Over the last several years prices have declined in the technological market and this trend could continue or accelerate. This price decline may result from competition, low marginal costs and/or rapid technological change. In addition, in the past few years, we have seen a move towards consolidation in our industry, which may lead to increased competitive pressure on prices and negatively impact our revenue, financial performance and market position. In parallel, due to economic conditions as well as to the complexity of our PLM products, the sales cycle for PLM products has lengthened. We could face a slowdown in our revenue growth as a result. Our research and development facilities are subject to risks of damage or temporary unavailability due to both system interference or breakdown and physical harm. The short- or long-term unavailability of the use of these facilities could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our research and development facilities are computer-based and rely on the proper functioning of complex software and integrated hardware systems. However, it is not possible to guarantee the uninterrupted operation and security of these systems. For example, the invasion of our computer-based systems by either computer hackers or industrial pirates could interfere with their proper functioning and cause substantial damage, loss of data or delays in on-going research and production activities. Computer viruses, whether deliberately or unintentionally introduced, could also cause similar damage, loss or delays. As many of our systems include advanced or state-of-the-art functionalities, computer “bugs” or design errors could cause malfunctions. In addition, because our research and production facilities are located in a limited number of principal sites, including our headquarters outside Paris in a possible flood zone, our facilities in Japan and California which may be exposed to earthquakes and our site in Israel, substantial physical damage to any one of our sites, by natural causes or by attack or local violence, could materially reduce our ability to continue our normal business operations. If any of these circumstances were to arise, the resulting damage, loss or delays could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Form 20-F 2005 15 Back to Contents Since we have multinational operations, we are subject to certain risks, inherent in international operations, that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a global participant in the software industry, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international operations that are beyond our control. These risks include: • tariffs, duties, export controls and other trade barriers; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and applicable laws; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; and • political and economic instability. Any of these factors could harm our operating results. There can be no assurance that we will not experience material adverse effects with respect to our international operations and sales. Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault owns approximately 43.3% of our outstanding shares, and continues to act as controlling shareholder. Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault (GIMD), which represents the interests of some of our founding shareholders, has maintained its substantial interest in Dassault Systèmes and owned approximately 43.3% of our outstanding shares and controlled approximately 42.6% of the voting rights as of December 31, 2005. As a result, GIMD continues to act as controlling shareholder with respect to matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Technology-related stock prices have generally been volatile, and this volatility may depress our stock price. The market price of our shares and ADSs is likely to be highly volatile, as the market for shares of technology companies has generally been more volatile than the stock market overall. A large number of technology companies have reached a market price significantly inferior to their historical highest market price. The price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar value of any dividends will be affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/euro exchange rate. Our ADSs are quoted in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs. For example, because our financial statements are reported in euro, a decline in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar would reduce our earnings as reported in U.S. dollars. This could adversely affect the price at which the ADSs trade on the U.S. securities markets. Our dividends are denominated in euro; a decline in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar would reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of any such dividend. Holders of ADSs may face disadvantages compared to holders of our shares when attempting to exercise voting rights. Holders of shares wishing to exercise their voting rights must block their shares for at least five days prior to shareholders’ meetings pursuant to our by-laws. In order to vote at shareholders’ meetings, ADS holders who are not registered on the books of the depositary are required to transfer their ADSs for a certain number of days before a shareholders’ meeting into a blocked account established for that purpose by the depositary. Any ADS transferred to this blocked account will not be available for transfer during that time. ADS holders who are registered on the books of the depositary must give instructions to the depositary not to transfer their ADSs during this period before the shareholders’ meeting. ADS holders must therefore receive voting materials from the depositary sufficiently in advance in order to make these transfers or give these instructions. As these materials are usually sent by regular mail, there can be no guarantee that ADS holders will receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote. The depositary and the Company are not responsible for failing to carry out or comply with voting instructions. Therefore, it is possible that ADS holders, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote at all. Preemptive rights may be unavailable to holders of our ADSs. Under French law, upon the issuance of new shares or equity-related securities for payment, we may grant preemptive rights to our shareholders to subscribe to such securities. However, holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise these preemptive rights unless both the rights and the shares are registered under the Securities Act of 1933 or an exemption from registration is available. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case the ADS holders will receive no value for these rights. 16 DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Form 20-F 2005 Back to Contents 