ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 2 PROPERTIES ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ITEM 4 [REMOVED and RESERVED] PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTIORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES SIGNATURES EXHIBIT INDEX EX-12 EX-21.1 EX-23.1 EX-31.1 EX-31.2 EX-32 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE This annual report contains forward-looking statements of our management regarding factors that we believe may affect our performance in the future. Such statements typically are identified by terms expressing our future expectations or projections of revenues, earnings, earnings per share, cash flow, market share, capital expenditures, effects of operating and acquisition initiatives, gross profit margin, debt levels, interest costs, tax benefits and other financial items. All forward-looking statements, although made in good faith, are based on assumptions about future events and are therefore inherently uncertain, and actual results may differ materially from those expected or projected. Important factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from expectations or projections include those described under the heading “Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 7. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise such statements to reflect new circumstances or unanticipated events as they occur. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL We are a leading provider of death care services and merchandise in the United States. We operate two types of businesses: funeral homes, which currently account for approximately 75% of our total revenue, and cemeteries, which currently account for approximately 25% of our total revenue. As of December 31, 2010, we operated 147 funeral homes in 25 states and 33 cemeteries in 12 states. We primarily serve suburban and rural markets, where we primarily compete with smaller, independent operators, and believe we are a market leader (first or second) in most of our markets. We provide funeral and cemetery services and products on both an “at-need” (time of death) and “preneed” (planned prior to death) basis. Our operations are reported in two business segments: • Funeral Home Operations. Funeral homes are principally service businesses that provide funeral services (traditional burial and cremation) and sell related merchandise, such as caskets and urns. Given the high fixed cost structure associated with funeral home operations, we believe the following are key factors affecting our profitability: • demographic trends in terms of population growth and average age, which impact death rates and number of deaths; • our ability to establish and maintain market share positions supported by strong local heritage and relationships; • our ability to effectively respond to increasing cremation trends by packaging complimentary service and merchandise; • our ability to control salary and merchandise costs; and • our ability to exercise pricing leverage related to our at-need business to increase average revenues per contract. • Cemetery Operations. Cemeteries are primarily a sales business providing interment rights (grave sites and mausoleums) and related merchandise, such as markers and memorials. Our cemetery operating results are impacted by the size and success of our sales organization, as evidenced by the statistic that approximately 52% of our cemetery revenues during the year ended December 31, 2010 was generated from preneed sales of interment rights and related merchandise and services. We believe that changes in the level of consumer confidence (a measure of whether consumers will spend money on discretionary items) may impact the amount of such cemetery revenues. The current environment of high unemployment and low consumer confidence represents a formidable challenge to the cemetery sales staff. Cemetery revenues generated from at-need service and merchandise sales generally are subject to many of the same key profitability factors as our funeral home business. Approximately 14% of our cemetery revenues during the year ended December 31, 2010 was attributable to investment earnings on trust funds and finance charges on installment contracts. Changes in the capital markets and interest rates affect this component of our cemetery revenues. Our business strategy is based on strong, local leadership and entrepreneurial principles that we believe drive market share, revenue growth, and profitability in our local markets. On January 1, 2004, we introduced our Standards Operating Model, a more decentralized and entrepreneurial operating model for our funeral homes. On January 1, 2006, we implemented a similar model to our cemetery business. These are models based on standards designed to grow market share and increase profitability developed from our best operations, along with an incentive compensation plan to reward business managers for successfully meeting or exceeding the standards. To date, our Standards Operating Model has driven significant changes in our organization, leadership and operating practices. We use the Standards Operating Model to measure the sustainable revenue growth and earning power of our portfolio of death care businesses. The Standards Operating Model emphasizes growing market share and improving long-term profitability by employing leadership and entrepreneurial principles that fit the nature of our local, personal service, high value business. Leadership qualities are evaluated using the 4E’s — Energy, Energize Others, Edge and Execution. This model also requires our local and corporate leaders to focus on the drivers of success that create long-term profitability and value for our stockholders. Our Standards Operating Model emphasizes: 1 Table of Contents • decentralized management of our local businesses; • financial and operational standards based upon key drivers of success of our best businesses; • variable compensation that rewards our managers as if they were owners; • finding, developing and retaining the best people in our industry; and • information technology designed to support local businesses and corporate management decisions, measure performance of our businesses against our financial and operational standards, and ensure adherence to established internal control procedures. Our business objectives include: • growing market share, creating new heritage, producing consistent, modest revenue growth and sustainable increasing earnings and cash flow; • continuing to improve our operating and financial performance by executing our Standards Operating Model; • upgrading the leadership in our businesses, as necessary; and searching for well-qualified personnel that we feel will lead and excel within our Standards Operating Model; and • executing our Strategic Acquisition Model, a disciplined program that will guide our acquisition strategies, to increase the sustainable earning power profile of our portfolio. HISTORY Carriage Services, Inc. (“Carriage” or the “Company”) was incorporated in the State of Delaware in December of 1993. During the 1990’s, Carriage grew dramatically through acquisitions of funeral homes and cemeteries. A significant amount of debt was incurred in financing these acquisitions. Our business strategy during the four years ended December 31, 2004 focused on increasing operating cash flow and improving our financial condition by reducing debt to lower our interest expense and improve our credit profile. During that same period we initiated a process to identify underperforming businesses and, where appropriate, sold those businesses to reduce our debt. We sold 36 funeral homes and 12 cemeteries along with 20 parcels of excess real estate. We reduced our debt and contingent obligations by approximately $87 million during the period January 1, 2001 through December 31, 2004. During January 2005, we refinanced our senior debt by issuing $130 million of Senior Notes due in 2015. The refinancing was the culmination of the effort to reaccess the capital markets and to extend the maturities of our senior debt to gain the flexibility to reinvest our cash flow in our core business. We used the net cash proceeds from the offering and our cash flow from operations to grow the Company through selective acquisitions. From 2005 through 2009 we completed ten acquisitions. During 2010 we completed six acquisitions and are positioned to acquire more funeral and cemetery businesses in the future. During 2008 and 2009, we also used our cash to repurchase $10 million of our common stock when the price per share was low due to the weak financial markets in the economic crisis. Beginning in the latter half of 2008 and continuing through the first half of 2009, we completely repositioned the trust fund investment portfolios to take advantage of what management viewed as pricing dislocations in the financial and capital markets, which resulted in returns of 47.4% in 2009 and 18.4% in 2010, and a much higher level of recurring interest and dividend income. During 2009, we also amended and extended the maturity of our revolving bank credit facility to November 2012 in order to provide financing for future acquisitions, if needed. DEATH CARE INDUSTRY Death care companies provide products and services to families in three principal areas: (i) ceremony and tribute, generally in the form of a funeral or memorial service; (ii) disposition of remains, either through burial or cremation; and (iii) memorialization, generally through monuments, markers or inscriptions. The death care industry in the United States is characterized by the following fundamental attributes (the statistics included in this report are based on public reports from financial research firms or public websites): Deaths and Death Rates Death rates and the number of deaths in the United States have been relatively stable on a long-term historical basis. The number of deaths in the United States increased at an annual rate of approximately 1% for the period from 1980 to 2000. Beginning in 2001, the number of deaths has trended lower very slightly as the general population is living longer and because of low birth rates in the period from early 1930’s to mid 1940’s during the depression and World War II. Management understands that the number of deaths declined 0.7% in 2010 compared to 2009. The recent trend is projected to reverse in coming years due to the aging of the “baby boomer” generation. Based on data from the National Population Projections released in 2008 by the U.S. Census Bureau, the number of people age 65 and over is expected to increase by approximately 16% from 2010 to 2015, and will increase to 14.4% of the population in 2015 from 13% of the population in 2010. 2 Table of Contents Cremation In recent years, there has been a steady, gradual increase in the number of families in the United States that have chosen cremation as an alternative to traditional methods of burial. According to industry studies, cremations represented approximately 39% of the U.S. burial market in 2010. The proportion of families choosing cremation has increased by approximately 100 basis points annually. Cremation rates can vary significantly based upon geographic, religious and cultural traditions. Direct cremation has been offered as a less costly alternative to a traditional burial. However, cremation is being increasingly accepted as part of a package of funeral services that includes memorials, merchandise and options for the interment of cremated remains. Cremations result in lower absolute revenue dollars, but higher gross margins. Cemeteries are more affected by the increasing cremation trend than funeral homes. Highly Fragmented Ownership We understand that there are approximately 20,900 funeral homes and 10,500 cemeteries in the United States and that the domestic death care industry generates approximately $15 billion of revenue annually. The largest public operators, in terms of revenue, of both funeral homes and cemeteries in the United States are Service Corporation International (“SCI”), Stewart Enterprises, Inc. (Stewart), StoneMor Partners L.P. and Carriage Services, Inc. We believe these four companies collectively represent approximately 10% of death care revenues in the United States. Independent businesses represent the remaining amount of industry revenue, accounting for an estimated 80% share. Within the independent businesses, there are a number of privately-owned consolidators. SCI acquired what was the second largest public company in the industry at the time, Alderwoods Group, in the latter half of 2006. In March 2010, SCI acquired Keystone North America, Inc., another large public operator. During 2010, we acquired five independent businesses and one business from Stewart. Heritage and Tradition Death care businesses have traditionally been family-owned businesses that have built a local heritage and tradition through successive generations, providing a foundation for ongoing business opportunities from established client family relationships and related referrals. Given the sensitive nature of our business, we believe that relationships fostered at the local level build trust in the community and are a key driver of market share. While new entrants may enter any given market, the time and resources required to develop local heritage and tradition serve as important barriers to entry. BUSINESS STRATEGY Key elements of our overall business strategy include the following: Implement Operating Initiatives. On January 1, 2004, we introduced our Standards Operating Model, a more decentralized and entrepreneurial operating model for our funeral homes. On January 1, 2006, we implemented a similar model to our cemetery business. These models are based on standards designed to grow market share and increase profitability developed from our best operations, along with an incentive compensation plan to reward business managers for successfully meeting or exceeding the standards. Our managing partners participate in a variable bonus plan in which they earn a percentage of their business’ earnings based upon the actual standards achieved. The model essentially eliminated the use of financial budgets. The operating model and standards, which we refer to as “Being the Best,” focus on what we believe are the key drivers of a successful operation, organized around three primary areas — market share, people and operating and financial metrics. The model and standards are the measures by which we judge the success of each business. To date, the Standards Operating Model has driven significant changes in our organization, leadership and operating practices. Most importantly, the Standards Operating Model allowed us to measure the sustainable revenue growth and earning power of our portfolio of death care businesses, which then led to the development of our Strategic Acquisition Model during 2006 which guides our acquisition and disposition strategies. Both models, when executed effectively, should drive longer term, sustainable increases in market share, revenue, earnings and free cash flow. The standards are not designed to produce maximum short term earnings because we do not believe such performance is sustainable without ultimately stressing the business, which often leads to declining market share, revenues and earnings. Enhancement of Funeral Services. A significant trend is an increasing preference of our client families for cremation. The percentages of funeral services conducted by us for which cremation was chosen as the manner in which to dispose of remains was 42.1% for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 44.1% for the year ended December 31, 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2010, 55.6% of the number of our total cremation services were direct cremations (where no memorial service or visitation is involved, although merchandise may be sold) and 44.4% included services. One of our training initiatives throughout the Company focuses on increasing the percentage of our cremation customers that choose services. All of our funeral homes offer cremation products and services. While the average revenue for a cremation service is generally lower than that of a traditional full-service funeral, we have found that these revenues can be substantially enhanced by our emphasis on offering services and merchandise. We have also begun using the Internet to create new sales channels and new consumer relationships through technology referred to as CarriageOne. CarriageOne has brought us to a new and modern level of serving our client families with video tributes, stationery items and webcasting. These products are high quality and enable our client families to experience personalization that helps their grieving and healing process. Through these services, we create a culture that puts client families and their experiences first with tools that are technically advanced, informative and easy to use. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately $1.5 million, or 2.8% of merchandise revenue, was earned through this channel. We anticipate that our revenue and profits from this activity will increase along with client family satisfaction and local brand loyalty. 3 Table of Contents Preneed Funeral Sales Program. We operate under a local, decentralized preneed sales strategy whereby each business location customizes its preneed program to its local needs. Insurance-funded contracts allow us to earn commission income to improve our near-term cash flow and offset a significant amount of the up-front costs associated with preneed sales. Trust funded contracts typically provide cash that is invested in various securities with the expectation that returns will exceed the growth factor in the insurance contracts. The cash flow and earnings from insurance contracts are more stable but are generally lower than traditional trust fund investments. In markets that depend on preneed sales for market share, we supplement the arrangements written by funeral directors with sales sourced by sales counselors and third party sellers. Preneed Cemetery Sales Program. A significant portion of our historical cemetery revenues are represented by sales of cemetery property sold by our counselors on a preneed basis and finance charges earned on preneed installment contracts. The current economy and the related declines in consumer confidence and discretionary income have reduced the preneed sales success rate. As a countermeasure, we have increased the number of sales counselors and initiated incentives for our customers so that they do not default on their installment obligations to us. In 2010, we were able to reduce bad debt expense by 14% as compared to 2009. Renewed Corporate Development Efforts. We believe that our capital structure positions us to pursue a strategy of disciplined growth, affording us the flexibility to redeploy our cash and cash flow toward selective acquisitions that meet our criteria. We expect to continue to improve our earning power as we invest in businesses that will contribute incremental revenues, earnings and cash flow. Our Strategic Acquisition Model is a primary driver of our acquisition strategy. We use strategic ranking criteria to assess acquisition candidates in order to optimize the sustainable earning power of our death care portfolio. Ideal acquisition candidates would be those that are demonstrated market leaders, are larger businesses located in larger and growing markets with high barriers to entry and have field-level operating margins consistent with our best performing properties. In our quest to find ideal candidates, we have analyzed and projected key statistics in the death care industry and believe the following will be true by 2015: • The number of national deaths will begin a long-term rise as the death rate among the baby boomer generation increases, notwithstanding a longer life expectancy. • The aging baby boomers will possess sufficient wealth and the financial flexibility to migrate to attractive retirement and part time second career areas primarily in the Southern and Western states and other select markets. • The general population of the United States will continue to grow and migrate to attractive urban and suburban centers in the Southern and Western states. • Cremation rates will continue to increase and migrate eastward. The accelerating cremation rate will have a significant impact on the revenue base of more traditional death care businesses in the Central and Eastern regions of the United States and a lesser impact on the already high cremation states in the West. With the above considerations in mind, our vision over the next ten years is to change the profile of our business to be heavily weighted in about 10-15 major markets that have an especially attractive demographic profile and where, over time, we could acquire or build up a group of operations in each of these markets performing one to three thousand funerals or interments annually. We believe there are large enough markets for us to increase our presence in existing markets by acquisition or enter a new market with a substantial acquisition while leveraging our strong local franchise brands and entrepreneurial leadership. We will use our Standards Operating Model to evaluate acquisition candidates to ensure they can be readily integrated into our portfolio. OUR STRENGTHS Market Leader in Our Suburban and Rural Markets. Our operations are located in principally suburban and rural markets, where we primarily compete with smaller, independent operators. Most of our suburban markets have populations of 100,000 or more. In over 70% of our funeral home markets, we believe that we are either first or second in local market share. Partnership Culture. Our funeral homes and cemeteries are managed by individuals that we refer to as Managing Partners, with extensive death care experience, often within their local markets. Our Managing Partners have responsibility for day-to-day operations but are required to follow operating and financial standards that are custom designed for each of four groupings using size of business and cremation rate as specific grouping criteria. This strategy allows each local business to maintain its unique identity within its local market and to capitalize on its reputation and heritage while our senior management maintains supervisory controls and provides support services from our corporate headquarters. We believe our culture is very attractive to owners of premier independent businesses that fit our profile of suitable acquisition candidates. 4 Table of Contents Flexible Capital Structure. We have no near-term debt maturity issues. We believe that our capital structure provides us with financial flexibility by allowing us to invest our cash flow in growth initiatives, such as business acquisitions and inventory. Currently, we have four primary components in our capital structure: • the $130 million of fixed rate senior notes which have a 2015 maturity; • a $40 million revolving credit facility, of which $0.6 was drawn at December 31, 2010, described under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7; • the convertible junior subordinated 7% debenture payable to our affiliate trust, on which we have the ability to defer payments of interest for up to 20 quarters, with a 2029 maturity; and • our common stock. Stable Cash Flow. We have demonstrated the ability to generate strong and stable cash flow. Prior to 2005, our primary use of cash flow was to repay debt. Free cash flow for 2010 (cash flow from operations less maintenance capital expenditures) totaled $18.6 million, for which the primary use was acquisitions. Going forward, we intend to use our cash flow to acquire funeral home and cemetery businesses and to fund internal growth projects, such as cemetery inventory development. Our growth strategy is the primary way we expect to increase stockholder value. We will reassess our capital allocation strategy annually, but at this point we believe that our financial goals will best be achieved by continuing to improve the operating and financial performance of our existing portfolio of businesses while selectively investing our net cash flow in growth opportunities that generate a return on invested capital in excess of our weighted average cost of capital. Strong Field-Level Operating Margins. We believe that our field-level operating margins are among the highest reported by the public companies in the death care industry and that this performance is a testament to the success of our business strategies. These strong margins and the ability to control costs are important advantages in a business such as ours that is characterized by a high fixed-cost structure. We will continue to seek ways to improve our financial performance, and we believe that our Standards Operating Model will continue to yield long-term improvement in our financial results. Effective Management of Funeral Preneed Sales. We believe our local, decentralized strategy allows us to adapt our preneed sales selectively to best address the competitive situation in our particular markets. In highly competitive markets, we execute a more aggressive preneed sales program. In less competitive markets where we have a strong market position, we deploy a more passive preneed sales program. In certain of our markets, we do not deploy a formal preneed program. This approach allows us to target the investment in preneed sales to markets where we have the opportunity to reinforce our market share. Since approximately 80% of our revenues are generated from at-need sales, we retain significant pricing leverage in our funeral business without having to rely on preneed sales. Integrated Information Systems. We have implemented information systems to support local business decisions and to monitor performance of our businesses compared to financial and performance standards. All of our funeral homes and cemeteries are connected to our corporate headquarters, which allows us to monitor and assess critical operating and financial data and analyze the performance of individual locations on a timely basis. Furthermore, our information system infrastructure provides senior management with a critical tool for monitoring and adhering to our established internal controls, which is critical given our decentralized model and the sensitive nature of our business operations. Proven Management Team. Our management team, headed by our founder and Chief Executive Officer Melvin C. Payne, is characterized by a dynamic culture that focuses on addressing changing market conditions and emerging trends in the funeral services industry. We believe this culture has been critical to our recent successful efforts and will provide an important advantage as the death care industry evolves. We are committed to continue operating an efficient corporate organization and strengthening our corporate and local business leadership. We believe that our Being the Best Standards Operating Model will ensure this commitment at all levels of the organization. Our businesses are organized into three Regions, each headed by a Regional Partner. This promotes more cooperation and synergy between our funeral and cemetery operations and supports the goal of market-share and volume growth in our most significant markets. OPERATIONS We conduct our funeral and cemetery operations only in the United States. Our operations are reported in two segments: funeral operations and cemetery operations. Information for each of our segments is presented below and in our financial statements set forth herein. Funeral Home Operations At December 31, 2010, we operated 147 funeral homes in 25 states. Funeral home revenues currently account for approximately 75% of our total revenues. The funeral home operations are managed by a team of experienced death care industry professionals and selected region-level individuals with substantial management experience in our industry. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 for segment data related to funeral home operations. Our funeral homes offer a complete range of services to meet a family’s death care needs, including consultation, the removal and preparation of remains, the sale of caskets and related funeral merchandise, the use of funeral home facilities for visitation and services, and 5 Table of Contents transportation services. Most of our funeral homes have a non-denominational chapel on the premises, which permits family visitation and services to take place at one location and thereby reduces transportation costs and inconvenience to the family. Funeral homes are principally a service business that provides burial and cremation services and sells related merchandise, such as caskets and urns. Given the high fixed cost structure associated with funeral home operations, we believe the following are key factors affecting our profitability: • demographic trends in terms of population growth and average age, which impact death rates and number of deaths; • establishing and maintaining leading market share positions supported by strong local heritage and relationships; • effectively responding to increasing cremation trends by packaging complementary services and merchandise; • controlling salary and merchandise costs; and • exercising pricing leverage related to our at-need business to increase average revenues per contract. Cemetery Operations As of December 31, 2010, we operated 33 cemeteries in 12 states. The cemetery operations are managed by a team of experienced death care industry and sales professionals. Cemetery revenues currently account for approximately 25% of our total revenues. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 for segment data related to cemetery operations. Our cemetery products and services include interment services, the rights to interment in cemetery sites (primarily grave sites, mausoleum crypts and niches) and related cemetery merchandise, such as memorials and vaults. Cemetery operations generate revenues through sales of interment rights and memorials, installation fees, fees for interment and cremation services, finance charges from installment sales contracts and investment income from preneed cemetery merchandise trusts and perpetual care trusts. Our cemetery operating results are impacted by the size and success of our sales organization, evidenced by the statistic that 41% of our cemetery revenues was generated from preneed sales of interment rights during the year ended December 31, 2010. An additional 11% of our 2010 cemetery revenues was generated from deliveries of merchandise and services previously sold on preneed contracts. We believe that changes in the level of consumer confidence (a measure of whether consumers will spend money on discretionary items) impacts the success rate of preneed sales and is currently having a significant negative impact on our preneed sales success rate and the industry as a whole. To combat the lower success rate, we embarked on a program in late 2008 to hire approximately 100 additional sales counselors. We completed the hiring phase in the first quarter of 2009. Coming into a more “normal” economy, we have focused more on quality sales counselors rather than quantity. Cemetery revenues generated from at-need services and merchandise sales generally are subject to many of the same key profitability factors as in our funeral home business. Approximately 14% of our cemetery revenue was attributable to investment earnings on trust funds and finance charges on installment contracts during the year ended December 31, 2010. Changes in the capital markets and interest rates affect this component of our cemetery revenues. Preneed Programs As discussed in the preceding sections, we market funeral and cemetery services and products on a preneed basis. Preneed funeral or cemetery contracts enable families to establish, in advance, the type of service to be performed, the products to be used and the cost of such products and services. Preneed contracts permit families to eliminate issues of making death care plans at the time of need and allow input from other family members before the death occurs. We guarantee the price and performance of the preneed contracts to the customer. Preneed funeral contracts are usually paid on an installment basis. The performance of preneed funeral contracts is usually secured by placing the funds collected in trust for the benefit of the customer or by the purchase of a life insurance policy, the proceeds of which will pay for such services at the time of need. Insurance policies, intended to fund preneed funeral contracts, cover the original contract price and generally include an element of growth (earnings) designed to offset future inflationary cost increases. Revenue from preneed funeral contracts, along with accumulated earnings, is not recognized until the time the funeral service is performed. The accumulated earnings from the trust investments and insurance policies is intended to offset the inflation in funeral prices. Additionally, we generally earn a commission from the insurance company from the sale of insurance-funded policies reflected as Preneed Insurance Commission. The commission income is recognized as revenue when the period of refund expires (generally one year), which helps us defray the costs we incur to originate the preneed contract (primarily commissions we pay to our sales counselors). In addition to preneed funeral contracts, we also offer “preplanned” funeral arrangements whereby a client determines in advance substantially all of the details of a funeral service without any financial commitment or other obligation on the part of the client until the actual time of need. Preplanned funeral arrangements permit a family to avoid issues of making death care plans at the time of need and enable a funeral home to establish relationships with a client that may eventually lead to an at-need sale. Preneed sales of cemetery interment rights are usually financed through interest-bearing installment sales contracts, generally with terms of up to five years with such earnings reflected as Preneed Cemetery Finance Charges. In substantially all cases, we receive an initial down payment at the time the contract is signed. The interest rates generally range between 9.5% and 12%. Occasionally, we have offered zero 6 Table of Contents percent interest financing to promote sales for limited-time offers. Preneed sales of cemetery interment rights are generally recorded as revenue when 10% of the contract amount related to the interment right has been collected. Merchandise and services may similarly be sold on an installment basis, but revenue is recorded when delivery has occurred. Allowances for customer cancellations and refunds are recorded at the date that the contract is executed and periodically evaluated thereafter based upon historical experience. We sold 5,615 and 6,485 preneed funeral contracts during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2010, we had a backlog of 79,842 preneed funeral contracts to be delivered in the future. Approximately 19% and 20% of the funeral revenues recognized during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively, originated through preneed contracts. Cemetery revenues that originated from preneed contracts represented approximately 57% and 52% of our net cemetery revenues for 2009 and 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we employed a staff of 203 advance-planning and family service representatives for the sale of preneed products and services. TRUST FUNDS AND INSURANCE CONTRACTS We have established a variety of trusts in connection with funeral home and cemetery operations as required under applicable state law. Such trusts include (i) preneed funeral trusts; (ii) preneed cemetery merchandise and service trusts; and (iii) perpetual care trusts. These trusts are typically administered by independent financial institutions selected by the Company. Independent financial advisors are also used for investment management and advisory services. Preneed funeral sales generally require deposits to a trust or purchase of a third-party insurance product. Trust fund income earned and the receipt and recognition of any insurance benefits are deferred until the service is performed, while trust fund holdings and deferred revenue are reflected currently on our balance sheet. In most states, we are not permitted to withdraw principal or investment income from such trusts until the funeral service is performed. Some states, however, allow for the retention of a percentage (generally 10%) of the receipts to offset any administrative and selling expenses. The aggregate balance of our preneed funeral contracts held in trust, insurance contracts and receivables from customers was approximately $315.4 million as of December 31, 2010. We are generally required under applicable state laws to deposit a specified amount (which varies from state to state, generally 50% to 100% of selling price) into a merchandise and service trust fund for cemetery merchandise and services preneed sales. The related trust fund income earned is recognized when the related merchandise and services are delivered. We are generally permitted to withdraw the trust principal and accrued income when the merchandise is actually purchased, when the service is provided or when the contract is cancelled. Cemetery merchandise and service trust fund balances, in the aggregate, totaled approximately $79.7 million as of December 31, 2010. In most states, regulations require a portion (generally 10%) of the sale amount of cemetery property and memorials to be placed in a perpetual care trust. The income from these perpetual care trusts provides a portion of the funds necessary to maintain cemetery property and memorials in perpetuity. This trust fund income is recognized, as earned, in cemetery revenues. While we are entitled to withdraw the income from perpetual care trusts to provide for maintenance of cemetery property and memorials, we are restricted from withdrawing any of the principal balances of the trust fund. Perpetual care trust balances totaled approximately $45.7 million at December 31, 2010. For additional information with respect to our trusts, see Notes 6, 8, and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2010. COMPETITION The operating environment in the death care industry has been highly competitive. Publicly traded companies operating in the United States include SCI, Stewart and StoneMor Partners L.P. In addition, a number of smaller, non-public companies have been active in acquiring and operating funeral homes and cemeteries. Our funeral home and cemetery operations face competition in the markets that they serve. Our primary competition in most of our markets is from local independent operators. We have observed new start-up competition in certain areas of the country, which in any one market may have impacted our profitability because of the high fixed cost nature of funeral homes. Market share for funeral homes and cemeteries is largely a function of reputation and heritage, although competitive pricing, professional service and attractive, well-maintained and conveniently located facilities are also important. Because of the importance of reputation and heritage, market share increases are usually gained over a long period of time. The sale of preneed funeral services and cemetery property has increasingly been used by many companies as a marketing tool to build market share. There has been increasing competition from providers specializing in specific services, such as cremations, who offer minimal service and low-end pricing. We also face competition from companies that market products and related merchandise over the internet and non-traditional casket stores in certain markets. These competitors have been successful in capturing a portion of the low-end market and product sales. REGULATION Our operations are subject to regulations, supervision and licensing under numerous federal, state and local laws, ordinances and 7 Table of Contents regulations, including extensive regulations concerning trust funds, preneed sales of funeral and cemetery products and services and various other aspects of our business. We believe that we comply in all material respects with the provisions of these laws, ordinances and regulations. We operate in the United States under the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) comprehensive trade regulation rule for the funeral industry. The rule contains requirements for funeral industry practices, including extensive price and other affirmative disclosures and imposes mandatory itemization of funeral goods and services. We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”) and comparable state statutes. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the United States Environmental Protection Agency community right-to-know regulations under Title III of the federal Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act and similar state statutes require us to organize information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations. Certain of this information must be provided to employees, state and local governmental authorities and local citizens. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2010, we and our subsidiaries employed 1,943 employees, of whom 930 were full-time and 1,013 part-time. All of our funeral directors and embalmers possess licenses required by applicable regulatory agencies. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. None of our employees are represented by unions. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We file annual, quarterly and other reports, and any amendments to those reports, and information with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain additional information about the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including us. Our website address is www.carriageservices.com. Available on this website under “Investor Relations-Investor Relations Menu — SEC Filings,” free of charge, are Carriage’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, insider reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and officers and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also posted on our website, and available in print upon request, are charters for the Company’s Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Executive Committee and Investment Committee. Copies of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the Corporate Governance Guidelines are also posted on the Company’s website under the “Corporate Governance” section. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will post on our website any modifications to the charters and any waivers applicable to senior officers as defined in the applicable charters, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Marketing and sales activities by existing and new competitors could cause us to lose market share and lead to lower revenues and margins. We face competition in all of our markets. Most of our competitors are independently owned, and some are relatively recent market entrants. Certain of the recent entrants are individuals who were formerly employed by us or by our competitors and have relationships and name recognition within our markets. As a group, independent competitors tend to be aggressive in distinguishing themselves by their independent ownership, and they promote their independence through advertising, direct mailings and personal contact. Increasing pressures from new market entrants and continued advertising and marketing by competitors in local markets could cause us to lose market share and revenues. In addition, competitors may change the types or mix of products or services offered. These changes may attract customers, causing us to lose market share and revenue as well as to incur costs in response to competition to vary the types or mix of products or services offered by us. Our ability to generate preneed sales depends on a number of factors, including sales incentives and local and general economic conditions. Declines in preneed sales would reduce our backlog and revenue and could reduce our future market share. On the other hand, a significant increase in preneed sales can have a negative impact on cash flow as a result of commissions and other costs incurred without corresponding revenues. As we have localized our preneed sales strategies, we are continuing to refine the mix of service and product offerings in both our funeral and cemetery segments, including changes in our sales commission and incentive structure. These changes could cause us to experience declines in preneed sales in the short-run. In addition, economic conditions at the local or national level could cause declines in preneed sales either as a result of less discretionary income or lower consumer confidence. Declines in preneed cemetery property sales 8 Table of Contents reduces current revenue, and declines in other preneed sales would reduce our backlog and future revenue and could reduce future market share. Preneed sales of cemetery property and funeral and cemetery merchandise and services are generally cash flow negative initially, primarily due to the commissions paid on the sale, the portion of the sales proceeds required to be placed into trust or escrow and the terms of the particular contract such as the size of the down payment required and the length of the contract. As a result, preneed sales reduce cash flow available for other activities, and, to the extent preneed activities are increased, cash flow will be further reduced. Price competition could also reduce our market share or cause us to reduce prices to retain or recapture market share, either of which could reduce revenues and margins. We have historically experienced price competition primarily from independent funeral home and cemetery operators, and from monument dealers, casket retailers, low-cost funeral providers and other non-traditional providers of services or products. New market entrants tend to attempt to build market share by offering lower cost alternatives. In the past, this price competition has resulted in our losing market share in some markets. In other markets, we have had to reduce prices or offer discounts thereby reducing profit margins in order to retain or recapture market share. Increased price competition in the future could further reduce revenues, profit margins and our backlog. Our ability to execute our growth strategy is highly dependent upon our ability to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates and negotiate transactions on favorable terms. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to identify candidates that meet our criteria or that we will be able to reach terms with identified candidates for transactions that are acceptable to us. We intend to apply standards established under our Strategic Acquisition Model to evaluate acquisition candidates, and there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in doing so or that we will find attractive candidates that satisfy these standards. Increased or unanticipated costs, such as insurance or taxes, may have a negative impact on our earnings and cash flow. We may experience material increases in certain costs, such as insurance or taxes, which result from recent Federal legislation or state and local governments raising taxes in an effort to balance budgets. These costs are difficult to quantify in the future and may impair our ability to achieve earnings growth in excess of revenue growth. Our forecast assumes that we will be successful in increasing earnings at a rate that is greater than revenue growth. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in achieving such increases. Improved performance in our funeral and cemetery segments is highly dependent upon successful execution of our Standards Operating Model. We have implemented our Standards Operating Model to improve and better measure performance in our funeral and cemetery operations. We developed standards according to criteria, each with a different weighting, designed around market share, people, and operational and financial metrics. We also incentivize our location Managing Partners by giving them the opportunity to earn a fixed percentage of the field-level earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization based upon the number and weighting of the standards achieved. Our expectation is that, over time, the Standards Operating Model will result in improving field-level margins, market share, customer satisfaction and overall financial performance, but there is no assurance that these goals will be met. We have learned that success using the model is highly dependent on having Managing Partners who are highly motivated and implement our business plans. The success of our businesses is typically dependent upon one or a few key employees for success because of the localized and personal nature of our business. Death care businesses have built local heritage and tradition through successive generations, providing a foundation for ongoing business opportunities from established client family relationships and related referrals. We believe these relationships build trust in the community and are a key driver to market share. Our businesses, which tend to serve small local markets, usually have one or a few key employees that drive our relationships. We can give no assurance that we can retain these employees or that these relationships will drive market share. Earnings from and principal of trust funds could be reduced by changes in financial markets and the mix of securities owned. Earnings and investment gains and losses on trust funds are affected by financial market conditions and the specific fixed-income and equity securities that we choose to maintain in the funds. We may not choose the optimal mix for any particular market condition. Declines in earnings from perpetual care trust funds would cause a decline in current revenues, while declines in earnings from other trust funds could cause a decline in future cash flows and revenues. Covenant restrictions under our debt instruments may limit our flexibility in operating and growing our business. The terms of our credit facility and the indenture governing our Senior Notes may limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur additional debt; pay dividends or make distributions or redeem or repurchase stock; make investments; grant liens; make capital expenditures; enter into transactions with affiliates; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; sell assets; and acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies. 9 Table of Contents Our credit facility also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. Complying with these restrictive covenants and financial ratios, as well as those that may be contained in any future debt agreements, may limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to take advantage of other favorable business opportunities. Our ability to comply with these restrictive covenants and financial ratios will depend on our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or restrictions when they apply will result in a default under the particular debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and, in some cases, the acceleration of debt under other instruments that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. In the case of an event of default, or in the event of a cross-default or cross-acceleration, we may not have sufficient funds available to make the required payments under our debt instruments. If we are unable to repay amounts owed under the terms of our amended senior secured credit facility, the lenders thereunder may be entitled to sell certain of our funeral assets to satisfy our obligations under the agreement. Continued economic crisis and financial and stock market declines could reduce future potential earnings and cash flows and could result in future goodwill impairments. In addition to an annual review, we assess the impairment of goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be greater than fair value. Factors that could trigger an interim impairment review include, but are not limited to, a significant decline in the market value of our stock or debt values, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, and significant negative industry or economic trends. If these factors occur, we may have a triggering event, which could result in impairment to our goodwill. Based on the results of our annual goodwill impairment test we performed using August 31, 2010 fair value information, we concluded that there was no impairment of our goodwill. However, if current economic conditions worsen causing deterioration in our operating revenues, operating margins and cash flows, we may have another triggering event that could result in an impairment of our goodwill. RISKS RELATED TO THE DEATH CARE INDUSTRY Declines in the number of deaths in our markets can cause a decrease in revenues. Changes in the number of deaths are not predictable from market to market or over the short term. Declines in the number of deaths could cause at-need sales of funeral and cemetery services, property and merchandise to decline, which could decrease revenues. Although the United States Bureau of the Census estimates that the number of deaths in the United States will increase in the future, longer life spans could reduce the rate of deaths. In addition, changes in the number of deaths can vary among local markets and from quarter to quarter, and variations in the number of deaths in our markets or from quarter to quarter are not predictable. These variations may cause our revenues to fluctuate and our results of operations to lack predictability. The increasing number of cremations in the United States could cause revenues to decline because we could lose market share to firms specializing in cremations. In addition, direct cremations produce minimal revenues for cemetery operations and lower funeral revenues. Our traditional cemetery and funeral service operations face competition from the increasing number of cremations in the United States. Industry studies indicate that the percentage of cremations has increased every year and that trend is expected to continue into the future. The trend toward cremation could cause cemeteries and traditional funeral homes to lose market share and revenues to firms specializing in cremations. In addition, direct cremations (with no funeral service, casket, urn, mausoleum niche, columbarium niche or burial) produce no revenues for cemetery operations and lower revenues than traditional funerals and, when delivered at a traditional funeral home, produce lower profit margins as well. If we are not able to respond effectively to changing consumer preferences, our market share, revenues and profitability could decrease. Future market share, revenues and profits will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences. In past years, we have implemented new product and service strategies based on results of customer surveys that we conduct on a continuous basis. However, we may not correctly anticipate or identify trends in consumer preferences, or we may identify them later than our competitors do. In addition, any strategies we may implement to address these trends may prove incorrect or ineffective. Because the funeral and cemetery businesses are high fixed-cost businesses, changes in revenue can have a disproportionately large effect on cash flow and profits. Companies in the funeral home and cemetery business must incur many of the costs of operating and maintaining facilities, land and equipment regardless of the level of sales in any given period. For example, we must pay salaries, utilities, property taxes and maintenance costs on funeral homes and maintain the grounds of cemeteries regardless of the number of funeral services or interments performed. Because we cannot decrease these costs significantly or rapidly when we experience declines in sales, declines in sales can cause margins, profits and cash flow to decline at a greater rate than the decline in revenues. 10 Table of Contents Changes or increases in, or failure to comply with, regulations applicable to our business could increase costs or decrease cash flows. The death care industry is subject to extensive and evolving regulation and licensing requirements under federal, state and local laws. For example, the funeral home industry is regulated by the FTC, which requires funeral homes to take actions designed to protect consumers. State laws impose licensing requirements and regulate preneed sales. Embalming and cremation facilities are subject to stringent environmental and health regulations. Compliance with these regulations is burdensome, and we are always at risk of not complying with the regulations or facing costly and burdensome investigations from regulatory authorities. In addition, from time to time, governments and agencies propose to amend or add regulations, which could increase costs or decrease cash flows. For example, federal, state, local and other regulatory agencies have considered and may enact additional legislation or regulations that could affect the death care industry. Several states and regulatory agencies have considered or are considering regulations that could require more liberal refund and cancellation policies for preneed sales of products and services, limit or eliminate our ability to use surety bonding, increase trust requirements and prohibit the common ownership of funeral homes and cemeteries in the same market. If adopted by the regulatory authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate, these and other possible proposals could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, our results of operations and our future prospects. For additional information regarding the regulation of the death care industry, see “Business — Regulation.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 