Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, prior to making a decision to invest in our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that we currently believe to be less significant may also adversely affect us. We are exposed to risks in our licensing business related to product and customer concentration. Currently, we generate a majority of our revenue in the home theater market, principally through the inclusion of SRS technology inside LCD, Plasma and CRT televisions, and set-top boxes. We expect that the consumer home entertainment market will continue to account for a significant portion of our licensing revenues for the foreseeable future. While consumer spending in general on consumer electronic products has increased, retail prices for certain consumer electronics products that include our audio technology, have decreased significantly. Indications are that this trend will continue for the foreseeable future. From time to time, certain of our OEM and semiconductor manufacturer customers may account for a significant portion of our revenue from a particular product application. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2006, Samsung and Sony accounted for approximately 18% and 11% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. Consumer electronics products manufacturers could decide to exclude our audio rendering technology from their products altogether in an effort to reduce cost. The loss of any such customer could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly dependent on the consumer electronics market, which is characterized by short product life cycles, fluctuations in demand and seasonality, and is subject to risks related to product transitions and supply of other components. The consumer electronics market is characterized by intense competition, rapidly evolving technology, and ever-changing consumer preferences. These factors result in the frequent introduction of new 12 products, short product life cycles and significant price competition. As a result, we may need to develop new products or technologies to integrate with the new products and technologies developed by our customers. If we are unable to develop the necessary technologies to meet the changing needs of our customers or provide such technologies at competitive prices, our customers may reduce their use of our technologies and our revenues may decline. In addition, the dynamic nature of this market limits our, as well as our customers’, ability to accurately forecast quarterly and annual sales. If we, or our customers, are unable to adequately manage product transitions, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. Pricing pressures on the consumer electronics product manufacturers, who incorporate our technologies into their products, could limit the licensing fees we charge for our technologies, which could reduce our revenues. The markets for the consumer electronics products in which our technologies are incorporated are intensely competitive and price sensitive. Retail prices for consumer electronics products that include our technologies, have decreased significantly, and we expect prices to continue to decrease for the foreseeable future. In response, manufacturers have sought to reduce their product costs, which can result in downward pressure on the licensing fees we charge our customers who incorporate our technologies into their products. Alternatively, our customers may seek to eliminate our technologies in their products in favor of internally developed technologies. A decline in the licensing fees we charge could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We face intense competition from companies with greater brand recognition and resources. The digital audio, consumer electronics, and entertainment markets are intensely competitive, subject to rapid change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants Many of our current and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including: · greater name recognition; · a longer operating history; · more developed distribution channels and deeper relationships with consumer electronics products designers and manufacturers; · a more extensive customer base; · broader product and service offerings; · greater resources for competitive activities, such as research and development, strategic acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, sales and marketing, and lobbying industry and government standards; and · more technicians and engineers. As a result, these current and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements. We are subject to risks associated with substantial international operations. We conduct sales and customer support operations in a number of countries throughout the world that require refinement to adapt to the changing market conditions on a regional basis. In addition, many of our significant customers are headquartered in the Asia Pacific region, particularly Japan and Korea. Approximately 91%, 84% and 74% of our sales were derived from customers with headquarters located in 13 the Asia Pacific markets during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net sales from sales to customers in these markets for the foreseeable future. Also, a substantial number of products incorporating our technologies are manufactured, assembled and tested by third parties in Asia. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks of conducting business outside of the United States, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, including: · political, social and economic instability, and the risk of war, terrorist activities or other international incidents in Asia and elsewhere abroad; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; · unexpected changes in, or impositions of, government requirements; · adverse changes in tariffs and other protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors; · potentially longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting receivables from foreign entities; · the burdens of complying with a variety of non-U.S. laws and reduced protection of our intellectual property in some countries; · potentially adverse tax consequences and the complexities of foreign value added tax systems; and · other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters and major health concerns. Our ability to generate revenues and meet with customers may be affected by widespread illness. Widespread illnesses such as the SARS illness and the Avian Influenza, or Asia Bird Flu, could impact our operations or our consumer electronics licensee’s operations. For example, our ability to visit our customers, our ability to conduct sales meetings or presentations, and sell through rates of electronics products to end consumers may be dramatically effected by either widespread or perceived potential illnesses. If the sale of consumer electronics products incorporating our technologies does not grow in emerging markets, our ability to increase our licensing revenue may be limited. We also expect that growth in our licensing revenue will depend, in part, upon the growth of sales of consumer electronics products incorporating our technologies in other countries, including China and India, as consumers in these markets have more disposable income and are increasingly purchasing entertainment products with surround sound capabilities. These countries have rapidly expanding and growing economies that are less mature than economies of other regions in which we derive significant portions of our revenue. Because of this, changes to employment patterns, currency fluctuations and political uncertainties could impact our ability to grow our licensing revenues in these regions. We have a long and unpredictable sales cycle, which can result in uncertainty and delays in generating additional revenues. Historically, because of the complexity of our technologies, it can take a significant amount of time and effort to explain the benefits of our technologies to potential new customers and to negotiate a sale. For example, it typically takes six to nine months after our first contact with a prospective customer before we start licensing our technology to that customer. In addition, purchases of our products are usually made in connection with new design starts by our customers, the timing of which is outside of our control. Accordingly, we may be unable to predict accurately the timing of any significant future sales of our 14 products. We may also spend substantial time and management attention on potential license agreements that are not consummated, or in which the consumer electronic product ultimately does not sell in large quantities, thereby foregoing other higher revenue opportunities. If our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our ability to compete may be affected by our ability to protect our proprietary information. We have filed numerous U.S. and foreign patent applications and to date have a number of issued U.S. and foreign patents covering various aspects of our technologies. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. It is possible that third parties may assert claims or initiate litigation against us or our customers with respect to existing or future products. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights. Claims and litigation brought against us or initiated by us could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management from our business. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or if we are unable to attract and retain other key personnel, we may not be able to manage our operations or meet our growth objectives. Our future success depends to a large extent upon the continued service of key personnel, including engineering, sales and administrative staff. We anticipate that any future growth will require us to recruit and hire a number of new personnel in engineering, operations, finance, sales and marketing. Competition for such personnel can be intense, and it is possible that we may not be able to recruit and retain necessary personnel to operate our business and support future growth. The market price of our common stock is volatile and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in our operating results, announcements of new products or technological innovations by us or our competitors, strategic alliances between us and third parties, general market fluctuations and other events and factors. Changes in earnings estimates made by brokerage firms and industry analysts relating to the markets in which we do business, or relating to us specifically, have in the past resulted in, and could in the future result in, an immediate and adverse effect on the market price of the common stock. Even though our stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market, our stock has had and may continue to have low trading volume and high volatility. The historically low trading volume of our stock makes it more likely that a severe fluctuation in volume, either up or down, will significantly impact the stock price. Because of the relatively low trading volume of our stock, our stockholders may have difficulty selling our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage transactions resulting in a change in control, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 