ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, without limitation, statements regarding the Company's intention to shift more of its focus towards the management and support of customers' enterprise, e-commerce and m-commerce applications. The factors discussed below could cause actual results and developments to be materially different from those expressed in or implied by such statements. o Lack of Profitability. The Company's lack of profitability over recent periods may impact its ability to attract customers, employees, investors and creditors. The Company's ability to achieve profitability in future periods will depend in large part on its ability to generate new sales, particularly annuity-based engagements, to improve its rate of employee utilization, and to manage selling, general and administrative expenses in proportion to its top line. o Ability to Retain Key Executive and Sales Leadership Personnel. The Company experienced significant executive and board level turnover in 2004 and through mid 2005. The Company also experienced significant turnover in its sales managers and personnel in 2004 through 2005. Such turnover has resulted in a lack of historical knowledge and experience and has impacted the Company's ability to maintain consistent relationships with its existing and prospective customers, to build and convert pipeline opportunities and to generate new business. There can be no assurance that the departure of one or more of such key personnel would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. o Ability to Secure and Maintain Access to External Sources of Funding. In addition to cash generated by on-going operations, the Company relies on access to external sources of funding and its ability to timely collect cash from its customers to manage its business. The Company's existing credit facility, which represents its sole source of external funding, expires on May 31, 2006. The Company's ability to continue its ongoing business operations and fund future growth depends on its ability to secure a new credit facility and to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants in such credit facility or to secure alternate sources of financing. However, such credit facility or alternate financing may not be available or if available may not be on terms favorable to the Company. o Ability to Attract and Retain Technical Key Personnel. The Company's business is labor intensive and, therefore, the Company's success depends in large part on its ability to recruit, retain, train and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly project managers and other senior level technical personnel. The Company's ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled employees is impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to, concerns regarding the Company's financial condition, competition from departing executives and competition for employees in India which may cause increasing compensation for existing and prospective employees, and the continued ability to use stock options to compensate such highly skilled employees in light of recent changes in accounting rules related to stock options. o Highly Competitive Market for Technical Personnel in India. The market for technical personnel in India, which represents the primary recruiting market for the Company's technical personnel, is extremely competitive resulting in increased compensation costs. Such increasing compensation costs are contributing to the deterioration of the Company's gross margins. 17 o Substantial Variability of Quarterly Operating Results. The Company has experienced, and expects to continue to experience, inconsistent quarterly operating results. The substantial variability of the Company's quarterly operating results are caused by a variety of factors, many of which are not within the Company's control, including (i) patterns of software and hardware capital spending by customers, (ii) information technology outsourcing trends, (iii) the timing, size and stage of projects, (iv) new service introductions by the Company or its competitors and the timing of new product introductions by the Company's ERP partners, (v) levels of market acceptance for the Company's services, (vi) general economic conditions, and (vii) the hiring of additional staff. o Highly Competitive Information Technology Services Industry. The markets for the Company's services are highly competitive. Many of the Company's competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company. The increased competition in the industry, among other negative effects, may cause a decrease in the Company's billing and employee utilization rates o Reliance on Key Partners. The Company relies on continued relationships and business associated with SAP America and Oracle. The continued uncertainty relating to Oracle's integration of PeopleSoft into its product offerings and the affect that this may have on general market acceptance of PeopleSoft's products, could adversely impact the Company's ability to sell professional consulting services related to such enterprise resource applications. o Concentration Risks. The Company derives a significant portion of its revenue from a limited number of customers and projects. The Company's ability to grow its business depends in large part on maintaining such customer relationships and continuing purchasing power of such customers. The loss of any large customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. o Ability to Maintain Effective Internal Controls. The Company has previously experienced material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. If the Company is unable to continue to improve its control environment and to prevent material weaknesses, or to remediate any weaknesses that may arise, such failure will adversely impact its ability: (i) to effectively manage the business; (ii) to timely record, process, summarize and report financial statements that fairly present, in all material aspects, the Company's financial condition, statements of operations and cash flows; and (iii) to comply with applicable law, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition the Company will be required to comply with the internal control reporting requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 beginning in 2007 (if the Company is not an "accelerated filer" as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2 for 2006), or beginning in 2006 (if the Company is an "accelerated filer" for 2006). If the Company is unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, such inability will adversely affect the Company's ability to comply with Section 404. The Company will be an "accelerated filer" if the aggregate market value of the Company's common stock held by non-affiliates is $75 million or more as of June 30, 2006. As of March 28, 2006, there were 15,370,821 shares of common stock held by non-affiliates with an aggregate market value of approximately $23,210,000. o Continued Availability of a Market for the Company's Common Stock. The Company's common stock trades on the Pink Sheets. In order to maintain liquidity in its common stock, the Company depends upon the continuing availability of a market on which its securities may be traded. The Company's ability to cause its stock to be listed on a national exchange and to maintain compliance with on-going listing requirements may impact the Company's ability to attract investors and to use its common stock to fund future growth. o Litigation and Compliance Risks. The Company and certain former officers are defendants in a shareholder class action suit, as described under "Item 3 - Legal Proceedings - Shareholder Class 18 Actions." If the Company is unable to defend itself and resolve the ongoing shareholder litigation related to the Company's restatement of prior periods' consolidated financial statements within the limits of the Company's director and officer liability insurance policy such failure will adversely affect its financial condition. In addition, there is the potential for significant claims against the Company relating to its professional services from customers or otherwise and the ability of the Company to adequately mitigate the risk of such potential claims may impact its future financial condition. The Company's ability to comply with existing and future immigration regulations may impact its ability to engage and deploy consultants on billable engagements. Uncertainties resulting from pending litigation matters and from potential administrative and regulatory issues including, but not limited to, accounting, corporate governance, immigration and taxation matters. o Currency Fluctuation Risks. Uncertainty relating to worldwide currency exchange rates, particularly in regard to the Indian rupee, U.S. Dollar, the Euro, British Pound, Danish Krone and Japanese Yen, and the fluctuations in such exchange rates may impact the Company's quarterly and/or annual financial results. o Geopolitical Risks. There is the potential for future legislation by the United States government regulating or taxing outsourcing which may adversely affect the Company's business model. In addition, there is continued uncertainty relating to the current geopolitical climate, particularly relative to internal India politics and their relation to India's continuing efforts to liberalize its economy and be receptive to economic conditions and policies favorable to the Company's business model. Changes in India's economic policies or additional legislation regarding information technology services businesses may adversely affect the Company's business model. o Reliance on Intellectual Property Rights. The Company relies upon a combination of trade secrets, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and copyright and trademark laws to protect its proprietary rights. The Company's future success is dependent, in part, upon its proprietary methodologies and toolsets, development tools and other intellectual property rights. The Company enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees, generally requires that its consultants and customers enter into such agreements, and limits access to and distribution of its proprietary information. The Company also requires that substantially all of its employees and consultants assign to the Company their rights in intellectual property developed while employed or engaged by the Company. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of its proprietary information or that the Company will be able to detect unauthorized use of and take appropriate steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. o Risks Associated with Potential Tax Liabilities. The Company was previously entitled to a tax holiday for certain revenue earned and expenses incurred by its existing Software Technology Parks of India unit ("STPI Unit") of its Hyderabad operations. Such tax holiday expires effective April 1, 2006 and therefore the Company's effective tax rate will increase. In addition, in July 2000, the Company completed the tax-free spin-off of SeraNova, its former subsidiary. In March 2001, SeraNova and Silverline Technologies Limited ("Silverline") consummated the acquisition of SeraNova by Silverline. Had the acquisition of SeraNova by Silverline been contemplated at the time of the spin-off, the spin-off would have been a taxable transaction. SeraNova's management has represented that such acquisition was not contemplated at the time of the spin-off of SeraNova by the Company, and accordingly should not impact the tax-free nature of the spin-off. Although the Company and SeraNova are parties to a tax sharing agreement pursuant to which SeraNova agreed to indemnify the Company with respect to any possible tax liability related to the spin-off, SeraNova has filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 7 of the United States Bankruptcy Code and would be unable to pay the resultant tax liability pursuant to SeraNova's indemnification obligations under its tax sharing agreement with the Company. If it were 19 determined that the spin-off was taxable, the Company would bear the liability to pay such the tax liability, which would be material. Please refer to Note 9 to the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company included elsewhere in this report for further information. As a result of these factors and others, the Company's actual results may differ materially from the results disclosed in such forward-looking statements. 20 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 21 