D. RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks, among others. If we do not successfully address the risks to which we are subject, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our share price may decline. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address any of these risks. 8 Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have a history of net losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. In the years 2013, 2012 and 2011 we incurred losses of $1.4 million, $6 million and $1.9 million, respectively. We may continue not to be profitable in the future, which could materially affect our cash and liquidity and could adversely affect the value and market price of our shares. A reduction in some telecommunication operators’ revenues and profitability, which led them to decrease their investment in capital equipment and infrastructure, materially and adversely affected our revenues and results of operations in 2013. A continued slowdown in our customers’ investment in capital equipment and infrastructure may materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our future success is dependent upon the continued growth of the telecommunications industry as well as the specific sectors that we target, which currently include 3G and 4G cellular and triple-play networks. During the last couple of years, the telecommunications operators experienced a reduction in their revenues from subscribers and lower profitability which affected the spending budget of telecommunications carriers. This mainly affected our revenues in 2012; however, we have been able to make a recovery in 2013. The global telecommunications industry, as well as the various sectors within the industry, is evolving rapidly, and it is difficult to predict its potential growth rate or future trends in technology development. The deregulation, privatization and economic globalization of the worldwide telecommunications market that have resulted in increased competition and escalating demand for new technologies and services may not continue in a manner favorable to us or our business strategies. In addition, the growth in demand for Internet and data services and the resulting need for high speed or enhanced telecommunications equipment may not continue at its current rate or at all. Our future success depends upon the increased utilization of our monitoring solutions by next-generation network operators and telecommunications equipment vendors. Industry-wide network equipment and infrastructure development driving the demand for our products and services was delayed during 2013 by a variety of factors and may further be delayed or prevented in 2014 by a variety of factors, including costs, regulatory obstacles or the lack of, or reduction in, consumer demand for advanced telecommunications products and services. Telecommunications equipment vendors and network operators may not develop new technology or enhance current technology. Further, any such new technology or enhancements may not lead to greater demand for our products. During 2013, developments in the communications industry, such as the impact of general global economic conditions, industry consolidation, emergence of new competitors, commoditization of voice services and changes in the regulatory environment ,had a material adverse effect on our existing and/or potential customers, and may continue to have such an effect in the future. In the past, these conditions reduced the high growth rates that the communications industry had previously experienced, and caused the market value, financial results, prospects and capital spending levels of many communications companies to decline. During 2013, the telecommunications industry experienced significant financial pressures that caused many in the industry to cut expenses and limit investment in capital intensive projects, and in some cases, led to restructurings. Although we are unable to determine what the full effects of the recent economic downturn will be, it has led, mainly during the first half of 2013, and may continue to lead to significant adverse consequences for our customers and our business. During adverse conditions in the business environment for telecommunications companies, service providers often need to control operating expenses and capital investment budgets, which can affect our business. For example, the recent business climate for communication companies resulted in slowed customer buying decisions and price pressures that increased pressure on our ability to generate revenue. During 2013, these adverse market conditions had a negative impact on our business by decreasing new customer engagements, as well as by decreasing the level of discretionary spending under contracts with existing customers. In addition, the slowdown in the buying decisions of service providers has extended our sales cycle period and limited our ability to forecast our flow of new contracts. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. During 2012, these events harmed our business, operating results and financial condition, however in 2013 we have been able to make a recovery. Further deterioration could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 9 Recent and future economic conditions, including turmoil in the financial and credit markets, may adversely affect our business. The recent economic and credit environment had a significant negative impact on business around the world. The impact of these conditions on the technology industry and our major customers has be quite severe. Conditions may continue to be depressed, or may be subject to further deterioration which could lead to a further reduction in consumer and customer spending overall, which could have an adverse impact on sales of our products. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses, which could lead to a significant reduction in their orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part, to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. In addition, any disruption in the ability of customers to access liquidity could lead customers to request longer payment terms from us or long-term financing of their purchases from us. If we are unable to grant extended payment terms when requested by customers, our sales could decrease. Granting extended payment terms or a significant adverse change in a customer’s financial and/or credit position, would have an immediate negative effect on our cash balance, and could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables, or could limit our ability to collect receivables related to purchases by that customer. As a result, we may have to defer recognition of revenues, our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase and our losses may increase. Our projected cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our obligations. If our cash flow does not meet or exceed our current projections, then our ability to pay our obligations could be materially impaired. We believe that our existing capital resources and cash flows from operations will be adequate to satisfy our expected liquidity requirements to meet our operating obligations, as they come due at least through the next twelve months. However, if our actual sales and spending differ materially from our projections, we may be required to raise capital, borrow additional funds or reduce discretionary spending in order to provide the required liquidity. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows or that future capital raising or borrowings will be available to us in amounts and on terms sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. Our ability to continue as a going concern is substantially dependent on the successful execution of our sales and spending projections. As noted above, in 2013, 2012 and in 2011 we generated significant losses attributable to our operations. We have managed our liquidity during this time through a series of cost reduction initiatives, expansion of our sales into new markets, private placement transactions, a bank credit line and shareholder loans. While we believe that our existing capital resources and cash flows from operations will be adequate to satisfy our expected liquidity requirements at least through the next twelve months, there is no assurance that, if required, we will be able to raise additional capital or reduce discretionary spending to provide the required liquidity in order to continue as a going concern. The market for our products is characterized by changing technology, requirements, standards and products, and we may be materially adversely affected if we do not respond promptly and effectively, to such changes. The telecommunications market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, changing customer requirements, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, certain changes of which could reduce the market for our products or require us to develop new products. For example, the LTE (Long Term Evolution) and VoLTE (Voice over Long Term Evolution) networks required us to develop a new product which was launched in 2014, our MaveriQ for 3G, LTE and VoLTE networks, in order to keep current with customer requirements. 10 New or enhanced telecommunications and data communications-related products developed by other companies could be incompatible with our products. Therefore, our timely access to information concerning, and our ability to anticipate, changes in technology and customer requirements and the emergence of new industry standards, as well as our ability to develop, manufacture and market new and enhanced products successfully and on a timely basis, will be significant factors in our ability to remain competitive. For example, many of our strategic initiatives and investments are aimed at meeting the requirements of application providers of 3G and LTE cellular and triple-play networks. If networking evolves toward greater emphasis on application providers, we believe that we have positioned ourselves well relative to our key competitors. If networking does not evolve toward greater emphasis on application providers, however, our initiatives and investments in this area may be of no or limited value. As a result, we cannot quantify the impact of new product introductions on our future operations. Our freedom to operate our business is limited as a result of certain restrictive covenants contained in our credit facility with the First International Bank of Israel. In September 2012, we secured a short-term line of credit of $1.5 million from the First International Bank of Israel, of which we are currently utilizing $0.7 million. In order to secure our obligations to the bank, we pledged and granted to the bank a first priority floating charge on all of our assets and a first priority fixed charge on certain other assets (namely, rights for uncalled and/or unpaid share capital, including goodwill rights, and rights for insurance). We refer to the agreement relating to such charges as the Pledge. The Pledge contains a number of customary restrictive terms and covenants that limit our operating flexibility, such as (1) limitations on the creation of additional liens, and on the sale or transfer of certain of our assets, and (2) the ability of the bank to accelerate repayment in certain events, such as breach of covenants, liquidation, or a reduction in Messrs. Zohar Zisapel’s and Yehuda Zisapel’s joint ownership of the Company below 30%. The Pledge's restrictive terms and covenants may hinder our future operations or the manner in which we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may fail to meet the requirements of the restrictive terms and covenants in the future and the bank may demand that we immediately repay any outstanding balance which will create a substantial burden on our cash balances and harm our ongoing operations. In 2013, we briefly breached one of the covenants, but we currently meet all of the requirements of the restrictive terms and covenants of the Pledge. We have a history of quarterly fluctuations and unpredictability in our results of operations and expect these fluctuations to continue. This may cause our share price to fluctuate and/or to decline. In 2013, we experienced, and expect to experience in the future, significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. Factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations include: · the variation in size and timing of individual purchases by our customers; · the absence of long-term customer purchase contracts; · seasonal factors that may affect capital spending by customers, such as the varying fiscal year-ends of customers and the reduction in business during the summer months, particularly in Europe; · the relatively long sales cycles for our products; · the request for longer payment terms from us or long-term financing of customers’ purchases from us, as well as additional conditions tied to such payment terms; · competitive conditions in our markets; · the timing of the introduction and market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by us and by our customers, competitors and suppliers; 11 · changes in the level of operating expenses relative to revenues; · product quality problems; · supply interruptions; · changes in global or regional economic conditions or in the telecommunications industry; · delays in or cancellation of projects by customers; · changes in the mix of products sold; · the size and timing of approval of grants from the Government of Israel; and · foreign currency exchange rates. Our costs of sales consist of variable costs, which include hardware production, packaging, royalties to the Chief Scientist (as defined below), license fees paid to third parties and import taxes, and of fixed costs which include facilities’ payments, employees’ salaries and related costs and overhead expenses. The majority of our costs of sales are relatively variable, and the costs are determined based on our anticipated revenue. We believe, therefore, that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a reliable indication of future performance. Our revenues in any period generally have been, and may continue to be, derived from a relatively small number of orders with relatively high average revenues per order. Therefore, the loss of any order or a delay in closing a transaction could have a more significant impact on our quarterly revenues and results of operations, than on those of companies with relatively high volumes of sales or low revenues per order. Our products generally are shipped within 15 to 30 days after orders are received, however revenue recognition is often deferred. Although we had a substantial backlog of orders at the end of 2013, this has not always been the case in the past and there is no assurance that this will continue to be the situation in future quarters. We may experience a delay in generating or recognizing revenues for a number of reasons and based on revenue recognition accounting requirements. While we are usually able to ship orders within 15-30 days of a customer’s order, in many cases we cannot recognize revenue from an order, prior to customer acceptance, which may take on average 3to12 months. Therefore, a major part of the revenue of a fiscal quarter is derived from the backlog of shipped orders and generally is not tied to the date of a customer’s order or the shipment date. Our revenues for a particular period may also be difficult to predict and may be affected if we experience a non-linear (back-end loaded) sales pattern during the period. We generally experience significantly higher levels of sales towards the end of a period, as a result of customers submitting their orders late in the period. Such non-linearity in shipments can increase costs, as irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods when overtime expenses may be incurred, and also lead to additional costs associated with inventory planning and management. Furthermore, orders received towards the end of the period may not ship within the period due to our manufacturing lead times. These orders are booked within the quarter, but only recognized as revenue at a later stage. If our revenues in any quarter remain level or decline in comparison to any prior quarter, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we do not reduce our expenses in a timely manner in response to level or declining revenues, our financial results for that quarter could be materially adversely affected. Since 2010, the relative portion of medium-to-large sized deals started to increase. This trend continued with greater vigor in 2011, 2012 and 2013. As a result, payment terms became longer by an average of 2 months, the deployment process became longer and more complex and our right to collect payment more often became subject to certain conditions, extending the time that elapsed between the date of an initial sale and full revenue recognition and collection. Due to the factors described above, as well as other unanticipated factors, in future quarters our results of operations could fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our ordinary shares may fall, as was the case in 2013. 12 We expect our gross margins to vary over time and our recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable or improved, which may have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. Our recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable or improved and may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: · increased price competition; · local sales taxes which may be incurred for direct sales; · increased industry consolidation among our customers, which may lead to decreased demand for and downward pricing pressure on our products; · changes in customer, geographic or product mix; · our ability to reduce and control production costs; · increases in material or labor costs; · excess inventory and inventory holding costs; · obsolescence charges; · reductions in cost savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand; · changes in distribution channels; · losses on customer contracts; and · Increases in warranty costs. Further deterioration in gross margins, due to these or other factors, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our sales derived from emerging market countries may be materially adversely affected by economic, regulatory and political developments in those countries. We generate sales from various emerging market countries. As sales from these countries represent a significant portion of our total sales, and as these countries represent a significant portion of our expected growth, economic or political turmoil in these countries could materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations. During the last years, such regulatory limitations delayed our ability to recognize revenue from certain customers. Our investments in emerging market countries may also be subject to risks and uncertainties, including unfavorable taxation treatment, exchange controls, challenges in protecting our intellectual property rights, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, or the absence of, or unexpected changes in, regulation as well as other unforeseeable operational risks. Any reversal or slowdown in deregulation of telecommunications markets could materially harm the markets for our products. Future growth in the markets for our products will depend, in part, on the continued privatization, deregulation and the restructuring of telecommunications markets worldwide, as the demand for our products is generally higher when a competitive environment exists. Any reversal or slowdown in the pace of this privatization, deregulation or restructuring could materially harm the markets for our products. Moreover, the consequences of deregulation are subject to many uncertainties, including judicial and administrative proceedings that affect the pace at which the changes contemplated by deregulation occur, and other regulatory, economic and political factors. Furthermore, the uncertainties associated with deregulation have in the past, and could in the future, cause our customers to delay purchasing decisions pending the resolution of these uncertainties. 13 Our growing international presence exposes us to risks associated with varied and changing political, cultural, legal and economic conditions worldwide. We are affected by risks associated with conducting business internationally. We maintain development facilities in Israel, and have operations in North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia. We obtain significant revenues from customers in Latin America and Asia and our strategy is to continue to broaden and expand into those markets. Conducting business internationally exposes us to certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: · legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · longer payment cycles; · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and withholding taxes that limit the repatriation of earnings; · difficulties in complying with varied legal and regulatory requirements across jurisdictions, including additional labor laws, particularly in Brazil; · political instability; · variations in effective income tax rates among countries where we conduct business; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and · laws and business practices favoring local competitors; One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Our inventory may become obsolete or unusable. We make advance purchases of various component parts in relatively large quantities to ensure that we have an adequate and readily available supply. Our failure to accurately project our needs for these components and the demand for our products that incorporate them, or changes in our business strategy or technology that reduce our need for these components, could result in these components becoming obsolete prior to their intended use or otherwise unusable in our business. This would result in a write-off of inventories for these components. In addition, a substantial portion of our inventory is located at customers as it has not yet been accepted in accordance with the terms of their orders and therefore, has not yet been recognized as revenue, making the control of such inventory more difficult. Many of our customers require a lengthy, detailed and comprehensive evaluation process before they order our products. Our sales process has been subject to delays that have significantly decreased our revenues and which could result in the eventual cancellations of some sale opportunities. We derive substantially all of our revenues from the sale of products and related services for telecommunications service providers. The purchase of our products represents a relatively significant capital expenditure for our customers. As a result, our products generally undergo a lengthy evaluation process before we can sell them. In recent years, our customers have been conducting a more stringent and detailed evaluation of our products and decisions are subject to additional levels of internal review. This trend has intensified recently as part of the recent economic environment. As a result, the evaluation process has significantly lengthened. This evaluation process generally takes between 3 to 6 months for small transactions, and between 9 to 18 months for large transactions. The following factors, among others, affect the length of the approval process: · the time involved for our customers to determine and announce their specifications; · the time required for our customers to process approvals for purchasing decisions; · the complexity of the products involved; · the technological priorities and budgets of our customers; and · the need for our customers to obtain or comply with any required regulatory approvals. If customers continue to delay project approval, delays lengthen further, or such continued delays result in the eventual cancellation of any sale opportunities, it would harm our business and results of operations. 14 Our visibility of a portion of our future sales is limited due to the short lead time of customer orders. As a result of the short lead time for some firm purchase orders that we receive from time to time, which usually do not require customer acceptance, we are unable to accurately forecast future revenues from these product sales. As a result, especially with respect to purchase orders of significant amounts, even dramatic fluctuations in revenue (whether increase or decrease) might not be detected until the very end of a financial quarter, which may not enable us to monitor costs in a timely manner to compensate for such fluctuations. We may undertake further reorganizations, which may adversely impact our operations, and we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our prior or any future reorganizations. We continue to reorganize and transform our business to realign resources and achieve desired cost savings in an increasingly competitive market. Although during 2011 we increased our work force, during 2012 and 2013 we undertook a series of reorganizations of our operations involving, among other things, the reduction of our workforce. If we continue to reduce our workforce in the future, we may incur additional reorganization and related expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have based our reorganization efforts on certain assumptions regarding the cost structure of our businesses. Our assumptions may or may not be correct, and we may also determine that further reorganizations will be needed in the future. We therefore cannot assure you that we will realize all of the anticipated benefits of the reorganizations or that we will not further reduce or otherwise adjust our workforce or exit, or dispose of, certain businesses. Any decision by management to further limit investment or to exit or dispose of businesses may result in the recording of additional reorganization charges, and might also adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from our business. As a result, the costs actually incurred in connection with the reorganization efforts may be higher than originally planned and may not lead to the anticipated cost savings and/or improved results. In addition, employees, whether or not directly affected by reorganizations, may seek future employment with our business partners, customers or competitors. We cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will not be compromised by any such employees who terminate their employment with us. Further, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, incentivize and retain highly skilled personnel. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining such personnel as a result of a perceived risk of future workforce reductions. We may lose significant market share as a result of intense competition in the markets for our existing and future products. Many companies compete with us in the market for network testing and service monitoring solutions. We expect that competition will increase in the future, both with respect to products that we currently offer and products that we are developing. Moreover, manufacturers of data communications and telecommunications equipment, which are current and potential customers of ours, may in the future incorporate into their products capabilities similar to ours, which would reduce the demand for our products. In addition, affiliates of ours that currently provide services to us may, in the future, compete with us. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater resources, including financial, technological, engineering, manufacturing and marketing and distribution capabilities, and several of them may enjoy greater market recognition than us. We may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors. A failure to do so could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 15 Our non-competition agreements with our employees may not be enforceable. If any of these employees leaves us and joins a competitor, our competitor could benefit from the expertise our former employee gained while working for us. We currently have non-competition agreements with our key and other employees in Israel. These agreements prohibit those employees, while they work for us and for a specified length of time after they cease to work for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce these non-competition agreements. If we are unable to enforce any of these agreements, competitors that employ our former employees could benefit from the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. In addition, we have non-competition agreements with employees outside of Israel, and we cannot guarantee that such agreements are enforceable under applicable law. Our business could be harmed if we were to lose the services of one or more members of our senior management team, or if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our future growth and success depends to a significant extent upon the continuing services of our executive officers and other key employees. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our employees. Competition for qualified management and other high-level telecommunications industry personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. If we lose the services of any key employees, we may not be able to manage our business successfully or to achieve our business objectives. Our success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified technical, sales, finance and management personnel. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications. If we do not succeed in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications, our revenues and product development efforts could be harmed. We are dependent upon the success of distributors who are under no obligation to distribute our products. We are dependent upon our distributors for their active marketing and sales efforts for the distribution of our products. Outside of North America, Brazil, Singapore, India and China, many of our distributors are the only entities engaged in the distribution of our products in their respective geographical areas. Typically, arrangements with our distributors do not prevent such distributors from distributing competing products, or require them to distribute our products in the future and, therefore, our distributors may not give a high priority to marketing and supporting our products. Additionally, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by changes in the financial situation, business or marketing strategies of our distributors. Any such changes could occur suddenly and rapidly. We may lose customers and/or distributors on whom we currently depend and we may not succeed in developing new distribution channels. Our seven largest distributors accounted for approximately 27.43% of our sales in 2013, 21.8% of our sales in 2012 and 43.9% of our sales in 2011. In 2013, no individual distributor accounted for more than 10% of the total respective consolidated revenues. If we terminate or lose any of our distributors or if they downsize significantly, we may not be successful in replacing them on a timely basis, or at all. Any changes in our distribution and sales channels, particularly the loss of a major distributor or our inability to establish effective distribution and sales channels for new products, will impact our ability to sell our products and result in a loss of revenues. 16 Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business. Large telecommunications providers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. These customers may require us to develop additional features and may impose penalties on us for failure to deliver such features on a timely basis, or failure to meet performance standards. As we seek to sell more products to large service providers, we may be required to agree to these less advantageous terms and conditions, which may decrease our revenues and/or increase the time it takes to convert orders into revenues, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. The complexity and scope of the solutions we provide to larger service providers is increasing. Larger projects entail greater operational risk and an increased chance of failure. The complexity and scope of the solutions and services we provide to larger service providers is increasing. The larger and more complex such projects are, the greater the operational risks associated with such projects. These risks include failure to fully integrate our products into the service provider’s network with third party products and complex environments, and our dependence on subcontractors and partners for the successful and timely completion of such projects. Failure to complete a larger project successfully could expose us to potential contractual penalties, claims for breach of contract and in extreme cases, to cancellation of the entire project, or increase the difficulty in collecting payment and recognizing revenues from such project. We could be subject to claims under our warranties and extended maintenance agreements and product recalls, which could be very expensive and harm our financial condition. Products as complex as ours sometimes contain undetected errors. These errors can cause delays in product introductions or require design modifications. In addition, we are dependent on other suppliers for key components that are incorporated in our products. Defects in systems in which our products are deployed, whether resulting from faults in our products or products supplied by others, due to faulty installation or any other cause, may result in customer dissatisfaction, product returns and, potentially, product liability claims being filed against us. Our warranties permit customers to return defective products for repair. The warranty period is mostly for one year but could be extended either in the initial purchase of our product or after the initial warranty period ends (“extended maintenance agreements”). During the past few years, customer returns have not been substantial. Any failure of a system in which our products are deployed (whether or not our products are the cause), any product recall or product liability claims with any associated negative publicity, could result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and harm to our business. In addition, under the warranty and extended maintenance agreements we need to meet certain service levels and if we fail to meet them we may be exposed to penalties. We incorporate open source technology in our products, which may expose us to liability and have a material impact on our product development and sales. Some of our products utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us on varying license structures. These licenses pose a potential risk to products in the event they are inappropriately integrated. In the event that we have not, or do not in the future, properly integrate software that is subject to such licenses into our products, we may be required to disclose our own source code to the public, which could enable our competitors to eliminate any technological advantage that our products may have over theirs. Any such requirement to disclose our source code or other confidential information related to our products could, therefore, materially adversely affect our competitive advantage and impact our business results of operations and financial condition. 17 We depend on limited sources for key components and if we are unable to obtain these components when needed, we will experience delays in delivering our products. We currently obtain key components for our products from either a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. We have one long term contract with a supplier of hardware and servers, which is a major supplier in its field. The agreement is scheduled to expire in 2017, with a one year extension option. We do not have long-term supply contracts with any other of our existing suppliers. This presents the following risks: · Delays in delivery or shortages in components could interrupt and delay delivery and result in cancellations of orders for our products. · Suppliers could increase component prices significantly and with immediate effect. · We may not be able to locate alternative sources for product components. · Suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our products. This may require us to modify our products, which may cause delays in product shipments, increased manufacturing costs and increased product prices. · We may be required to hold more inventory than would be immediately required in order to avoid problems from shortages or discontinuance. We have experienced delays and shortages in the supply of components on more than one occasion in the past. This resulted in delays in our delivering products to our customers. Since we shifted in February 2013 to software-based solutions, which are installed on standard, non-proprietary 3rd party hardware, we are less vulnerable to such delays and shortages. The shift to software-based solutions is discussed in "Item 4—Information on the Company- Business Review”. We depend on a limited number of independent manufacturers, which reduces our ability to control our manufacturing process. For some of our products, we rely on a limited number of independent manufacturers, some of which are small, privately held companies, to provide certain assembly services to our specifications. We do not have any long-term supply agreements with any third-party manufacturers. If our access to such assembly services is reduced or interrupted, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected until we are able to establish sufficient assembly services from alternative sources. Alternative manufacturing sources may not be able to meet our future requirements, and existing or alternative sources may not continue to be available to us at favorable prices. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect, and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely upon a combination of contractual rights, software licenses, trade secrets, copyrights, nondisclosure agreements and technical measures to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in our products and technologies. In addition, we sometimes enter into non-competition, non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees, distributors, sales representatives and manufacturers’ representatives and certain suppliers with access to sensitive information. However, we have no registered patents, and these measures may not be adequate to protect our technology from third-party infringement. Additionally, effective trademark, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer, or intend to offer, our products. We may expand our business or enhance our technology through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition. Part of our growth strategy is to selectively pursue partnerships and acquisitions that provide us access to complementary technologies and accelerate our penetration into new markets. The negotiation of acquisitions, investments or joint ventures, as well as the integration of acquired or jointly developed businesses or technologies, could divert our management’s time and resources. Acquired businesses, technologies or joint ventures may not be successfully integrated with our products and operations. We may not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition, investment or joint venture and we may incur future losses from any acquisition, investment or joint venture. 18 In addition, acquisitions could result in, among other things: · substantial cash expenditures; · potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; · the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; · a decrease in our profit margins; and · amortization of intangibles and potential impairment of goodwill. If we implement our growth strategy by acquiring other businesses, and this disrupts our operations, our business may suffer. Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions. We received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Economy (the “MoE”), formerly the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (the "Chief Scientist"), for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. In addition to our obligation to pay to the Chief Scientist royalties on revenues from products developed pursuant such programs or deriving therefrom (and related services), our ability to transfer such resulting know-how, especially outside of Israel, is limited, regardless of whether the royalties were fully paid. Any non-Israeli citizen, resident or entity that, among other things, (i) becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital or voting rights, (ii) is entitled to appoint one or more of our directors or our chief executive officer, or (iii) serves as one of our directors or as our chief executive officer (including holders of 25% or more of the voting power, equity or the right to nominate directors in such direct holder, if applicable), is required to notify the Chief Scientist of the same and to undertake to the Chief Scientist to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. For more information, see "Item 4.B—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist." We may be subject to litigation and other claims, including, without limitation, infringement claims or claims that we have violated intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. Third parties may from time to time assert against us infringement claims or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. If such infringement were found to exist, we might be required to modify our products or intellectual property or to obtain a license or right to use such technology or intellectual property. Any infringement claim, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Additionally, in May 2010, we received a notice from the Chief Scientist regarding alleged miscalculations in the amount of royalties paid by us to the Chief Scientist for the years 1992 through 2009 and the basis revenues of which the Company has to pay royalties. We believe that all royalties due to the Chief Scientist from the sale of products developed with funding provided by the Chief Scientist during such years were properly paid or were otherwise accrued as of December 31, 2013. During 2011 we reviewed with the Chief Scientist these alleged miscalculation differences and now await further instructions. Currently we are unable to assess the merits of the aforesaid arguments raised by the Chief Scientist. If such royalties were not properly paid or otherwise accrued, any such differences could result in the expenditure of significant financial resources. 19 Yehuda Zisapel and Zohar Zisapel beneficially own, in aggregate, approximately 39% of our ordinary shares and, therefore, have significant influence over the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors. As of March 21, 2014, Yehuda Zisapel and Zohar Zisapel (the Chairman of our Board of Directors), who are brothers, may be deemed to beneficially own an aggregate of 3,262,673 ordinary shares, including options and warrants exercisable for 283,037 ordinary shares that are exercisable within 60 days of March 21, 2014, representing approximately 39% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, despite the fact that each one of them, to our knowledge, operates independently from the other with respect to his respective shareholding of our shares, Yehuda Zisapel and Zohar Zisapel have significant influence over the outcome of various actions that require shareholder approval, including the election of our directors. In addition, Yehuda Zisapel and Zohar Zisapel may be able to delay or prevent a transaction in which shareholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares and prevent changes in control or in management. We engage in transactions, and may compete with, companies controlled by Yehuda Zisapel and Zohar Zisapel, which may result in potential conflicts. We are engaged in, and expect to continue to be engaged in, numerous transactions with companies controlled by Yehuda Zisapel and Zohar Zisapel. We believe that such transactions are beneficial to us and are generally conducted upon terms that are no less favorable to us than would be available from unaffiliated third parties. Nevertheless, these transactions may result in a conflict of interest between what is best for us and the interests of the other parties in such transactions. In addition, several products of such affiliated companies may be used in place of our products, and it is possible that direct competition between us and one or more of such affiliated companies may develop in the future. Moreover, opportunities to develop, manufacture, or sell new products (or otherwise enter new fields) may arise in the future and may be pursued by one or more affiliated companies instead of with us. This could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we fail to adapt appropriately to the challenges associated with operating internationally, the expected growth of our business may be impeded and our operating results may be affected. While we are headquartered in Israel, approximately 97% of our sales in 2013, 91% of our sales in 2012 and 98% of our sales in 2011 were generated outside of Israel, including in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Australia. Our international sales will be limited if we cannot establish and maintain relationships with international distributors, set up additional foreign operations, expand international sales channel management, hire additional personnel, develop relationships with international service providers and operate adequate after-sales support internationally. Even if we are able to successfully expand our international operations, we may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including: · challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations due to the limited number of qualified candidates, employment laws and business practices in foreign countries, any of which could increase the cost and reduce the efficiency of operating in foreign countries; · our inability to comply with import/export, environmental and other trade compliance and other regulations of the countries in which we do business, together with unexpected changes in such regulations; · insufficient measures to ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future; · our failure to adhere to laws, regulations and contractual obligations relating to customer contracts in various countries; · our inability to maintain a competitive list of distributors for indirect sales; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · economic instability in foreign markets; · wars, acts of terrorism and political unrest; · language and cultural barriers; · lack of integration of foreign operations; 20 · currency fluctuations; · potential foreign and domestic tax consequences; · technology standards that differ from those on which our products are based, which could require expensive redesign and retention of personnel familiar with those standards; · longer accounts receivable payment cycles and possible difficulties in collecting payments, which may increase our operating costs and hurt our financial performance; and · failure to meet certification requirements. Any of these factors could harm our international operations and negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The continuing weakness in these economies or other foreign economies could have a significant negative effect on our future operating results. Because most of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars but a significant portion of our expenses are incurred in New Israeli Shekels, our results of operations may be seriously harmed by currency fluctuations and inflation. Although we sell in markets throughout the world, most of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars, and the majority of our cost of revenues is incurred in transactions denominated in dollars. Accordingly, we consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency. However, a significant portion of our expenses is in NIS, mainly related to employee expenses. Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates between the NIS and the U.S. dollar may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As of today we have not entered into any hedging transactions in order to mitigate these risks. We may also be exposed to this risk to the extent that the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the rate of potential devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or if the timing of such devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In either event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Moreover, as our revenues are currently denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause customers to default on payment. An increasing portion of our revenues is now denominated in Brazilian Real, and in the future additional revenues may be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, thereby exposing us to gains and losses on non-U.S. currency transactions. Any inability to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 regarding having effective internal control procedures may negatively impact the report on our financial statements to be provided by our independent auditors. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The SEC, as directed by Section 404 ("Section 404") of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K or Form 20-F, as the case may be, that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, if the public float of our shares were to exceed $75 million, the Company’s independent registered public accountants would be required to attest to and report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management may not conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. Any of these possible outcomes could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the market price of our shares. Further, we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our assessments of our internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares. 21 If we determine that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal controls procedures and re-evaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as third party advisors fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order for us to be compliant with Section 404. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our conclusion that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. As more fully described below in "Item 10.E—Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation of U.S. Holders of Ordinary Shares—Passive Foreign Investment Company Status," if for any taxable year, after taking into account certain look-through rules, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the fair market value of our assets, averaged quarterly over our taxable year, are comprised of assets that produce (or are held for the production of) passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The market capitalization approach has generally been used to determine the fair market value of the assets of a publicly traded corporation, although the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and the courts have accepted other valuation methods in certain valuation contexts. If we are classified as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders could suffer adverse United States tax consequences, including gain on the disposition of our ordinary shares being treated as ordinary income and any resulting U.S. federal income tax being increased by an interest charge. Rules similar to those applicable to dispositions generally will apply to certain "excess distributions" in respect of our ordinary shares. For our 2013 taxable year, we believe that we should not be classified as a PFIC. However, there are no assurances that the IRS will agree with our conclusion or that we will not become a PFIC in 2014 or subsequent taxable years. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. New regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and may damage our relationship with certain customers. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals and derivatives referred to as “conflict minerals” which may originate from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. As a result, in August 2012 the SEC established new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use “conflict” minerals in their products, whether or not the products are manufactured by third parties. These new requirements will require additional due diligence efforts for the 2014 calendar year, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in May 2014. We are currently examining whether we will be subject to these new disclosure requirements, as the types of minerals covered by these rules are present in electronic devices, and consequently we believe we may be subject to these new disclosure requirements. If we are subject to these new requirements, we will incur additional costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. As these new requirements are implemented, they could affect the pricing, sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of components in our devices, and in turn could affect the costs and availability of such components. Our supply chain is complex and we may be unable to verify the origins for all metals used in our products. We may also encounter challenges with our customers and stakeholders if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free. 22 The market price of our ordinary shares has and may continue to fluctuate widely, which has adversely affected and could adversely affect us and our shareholders. From January 1, 2013 to March 24, 2014, our ordinary shares have traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market ("NASDAQ") as high as $7.35 and as low as $2.21 per share. As of March 24, 2014, the closing price of our ordinary shares on NASDAQ was $6.21 per share. The market price of our ordinary shares has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including the following: · our results of operations; · market conditions or trends in our industry and the economy as a whole; · political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel and worldwide; · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new and enhanced products; · changes in the market valuations of our competitors; · introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or our competitors; · trends in the communications or software industries, including industry consolidation; · acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or others in our industry; · changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by financial analysts; · changes in our shareholder base; and · additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Israeli and technology companies in particular, has been highly volatile. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our performance. Shareholders may not be able to resell their ordinary shares following periods of volatility because of the market’s adverse reaction to such volatility, and we may not be able to raise capital through an offering of securities, which would adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to maintain or expand our operations. From time to time we may need to raise financing. If adequate funds are not available on terms favorable to us or to our shareholders, our operations and growth strategy will be materially adversely affected. From time to time we may be required to raise financing in connection with our operations and growth strategy. We do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or whether it will be available on terms favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available on terms favorable to us or to our shareholders, our operations and growth strategy will be materially adversely affected. The trading volume of our shares has been low in the past and may be low in the future, resulting in lower than expected market prices for our shares. Our shares have been traded at low volumes in the past and may be traded at low volumes in the future for reasons related or unrelated to our performance. This low trading volume may result in lesser liquidity and lower than expected market prices for our ordinary shares, and our shareholders may not be able to resell their shares for more than they paid for them. Risks Related to Our Location in Israel Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices and manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected if political, economic and military events curtailed or interrupted trade between Israel and its present trading partners or if major hostilities involving Israel should occur in the Middle East. 23 Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since the end of 2011, several countries in the region, including Egypt and Syria, have been experiencing civil unrest, political turbulence and violence which are affecting the political stability of those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political and economic relationships that exist between the State of Israel and some of these countries. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. These situations may potentially escalate in the future to more violent events which may affect Israel and us. These situations, including conflicts which involved missile strikes against civilian targets in various parts of Israel, have in the past negatively affected business conditions in Israel. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We do not believe that the political and security situation has had a material impact on our business to date; however, there can be no assurance that this will be the case for future operations. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel or a significant increase in the rate of inflation. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries or companies may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as the result of the aforementioned hostilities. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the area’s problems will be achieved or the nature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Israel’s economic development or our operations. We currently benefit from government programs that may be discontinued or reduced. We currently receive grants under Government of Israel programs. As of December 31, 2013, our contingent liability to the Chief Scientist in respect of research grants received was approximately $36.2 million. In order to maintain our eligibility for these programs, we must continue to meet specific conditions and pay royalties with respect to grants received. In addition, some of these programs restrict our ability to manufacture particular products outside of Israel or to transfer particular technology. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the benefits received could be canceled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs. These programs may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. If we do not receive these grants in the future, we will have to allocate funds to product development at the expense of other operational costs. If the Government of Israel discontinues or curtails these programs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. For more information, see "Item 4.B—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist." Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult a merger or acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and depress the market price of our shares. The Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999 (the "Israeli Companies Law") generally requires that a merger be approved by a company’s board of directors and by a majority of the shares voting on the proposed merger. Unless a court rules otherwise, a statutory merger will not be deemed approved if shares representing a majority of the voting power present at the shareholders meeting, and which are not held by the potential merger partner (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the shares of capital stock or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the potential merger partner or its general manager), vote against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy its obligations. In addition, a merger may generally not be completed unless at least (i) 50 days have passed since the filing of the merger proposal with the Israeli Registrar of Companies by each of the merging companies, and (ii) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each of the parties to the merger. Also, in certain circumstances an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 25% or greater or 45% or greater shareholder of the company (unless there is already a 25% or greater or a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, respectively). If, as a result of an acquisition, the acquirer would hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. Shareholders may request an appraisal in connection with a tender offer for a period of six months following the consummation of the tender offer, but the purchaser is entitled to stipulate that any tendering shareholder surrender its appraisal rights. 24 Finally, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than do U.S. tax laws. For example, Israeli tax law may, under certain circumstances, subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such a stock-for-stock swap. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law, and the uncertainties surrounding such law, may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with us or an acquisition of us. This could prevent a change of control over us and depress our ordinary shares’ market price which otherwise might rise as a result of such a change of control. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. All male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 51 are, unless exempt, obligated to perform military reserve duty annually. Additionally, these residents are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Some of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform military reserve duty from time to time. In the event of a military conflict, including the ongoing conflict with the Palestinians, these persons could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time and on very short notice. The absence of a number of our officers and employees for significant periods could disrupt our operations and harm our business. Given these requirements, we believe that we have operated relatively efficiently since beginning our operations. However, we cannot assess what the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business would be if the situation with the Palestinians or any other adversaries changes, and we cannot predict the effect on our business operations of any expansion or reduction of these military reserve requirements. It may be difficult to (i) effect service of process, (ii) assert U.S. securities laws claims and (iii) enforce U.S. judgments in Israel against us or our directors, officers and auditors named in this Annual Report. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiary, our directors and officers and the Israeli experts, if any, named in this Annual Report, most of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and all of our directors, executive officers and such Israeli experts are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may be difficult to collect within the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel that it may also be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on an alleged violation of U.S. securities laws if they determine that Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. judgment in a civil matter, including a judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws, as well as a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that the following key conditions are met: · subject to limited exceptions, the judgment is final and non-appealable; 25 · the judgment was given by a court competent under the laws of the state in which the court is located and is otherwise enforceable in such state; · the judgment was rendered by a court competent under the rules of private international law applicable in Israel; · the laws of the state in which the judgment was given provides for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts; · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; · the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and · an action between the same parties in the same matter was not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit was instituted in the U.S. court. 