ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risk is an inherent part of Carver’s business and activities. The following is a summary of risk factors relevant to the Company’s operations which should be carefully reviewed. These risk factors do not necessarily appear in the order of importance. Changes in interest rate environment may negatively affect Carver’s net income, mortgage loan originations and valuation of available-for-sale securities. The Company’s earnings depend largely on the relationship between the yield on interest-earning assets, primarily mortgage, construction and business loans and mortgage-backed securities, and the cost of deposits and borrowings. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence market interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of non-performing assets. Fluctuations in market interest rates affect customer demand for products and services. Carver is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that its interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than its interest-earning assets. In addition, the actual amount of time before mortgage, construction and business loans and mortgage-backed securities are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage prepayment rates and prevailing market interest rates. Mortgage prepayment rates will vary due to a number of factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, demographic variables and the ability to assume the underlying mortgages. However, the major factors affecting prepayment rates are prevailing interest rates, related loan refinancing opportunities and competition. The Company’s objective is to fund its liquidity needs primarily through lower costing deposit growth. However, from time to time Carver Federal borrows from the FHLB-NY. More recently, the cost of deposits and borrowings have become significantly higher with the rising interest rate environment, which has negatively impacted net interest income. 33 Table of Contents Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate. The Federal Open Market Committee, or FOMC, reduced the federal funds rate by 100 basis points during the second half of 2007 and then an additional 400+ basis points during 2008 bringing the target rate to 0.00% to 0.25%. The Bank cannot predict future FOMC or FRB actions or other factors that will cause rates to change. No assurance can be given that further changes in interest rates or further increases in mortgage loan prepayments will not have a negative impact on net interest income, net interest rate spread or net interest margin. The estimated fair value of the Company’s available-for-sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on changes in interest rates. Carver Federal’s securities portfolio is comprised primarily of adjustable rate securities. There has been an improvement in valuation of the Bank’s available for sale securities because interest rates have declined in fiscal 2009. Carver’s results of operations are affected by economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area. At March 31, 2009, a majority of the Bank’s lending portfolio was concentrated in the New York metropolitan area. As a result of this geographic concentration, Carver’s results of operations are largely dependent on economic conditions in this area. Decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans to its borrowers. Adverse changes in the economy caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Bank’s control may also have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely mortgage or business loan payments, which would have an adverse impact on earnings. Consequently, deterioration in economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, which could result in increased delinquencies, decreased interest income results as well as an adverse impact on loan loss experience with probable increased allowance for loan losses. Such deterioration also could adversely impact the demand for products and services, and, accordingly, further negatively affect results of operations. The Bank is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, both nationally and locally. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the ongoing economic recession, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. At March 31, 2009, the average loan-to-value ratio of the Bank’s mortgage loan portfolio was less than 53% based on current principal balances and original appraised values. However, no assurance can be given that the original appraised values are reflective of current market conditions as the Bank has experienced declines in real estate values in all markets in which it lends. The Bank has experienced increases in loan delinquencies and charge-offs in fiscal 2009. The Bank’s non-performing loans, which are comprised primarily of mortgage loans, increased $23.1 million to $26.6 million, or 4.15% of total loans, at March 31, 2009, from $2.9 million, or 0.43% of total loans, at March 31, 2008. The Bank’s net loan charge-offs totaled $0.5 million for fiscal 2009 compared to $0.8 million for fiscal 2008. The Bank’s provision for loan losses totaled $2.7 million for fiscal 2009 compared to $0.2 million for fiscal 2008. As a residential lender, Carver Federal is particularly vulnerable to the impact of a severe job loss recession. Significant increases in job losses and unemployment will have a negative impact on the financial condition of residential borrowers and their ability to remain current on their mortgage loans. A continuation or further deterioration in national and local economic conditions, including an accelerating pace of job losses, particularly in the New York metropolitan area, could have a material adverse impact on the quality of The Bank’s loan portfolio, which could result in further increases in loan delinquencies, causing a decrease in The Bank’s interest income as well as an adverse impact on The Bank’s loan loss experience, causing an increase in The Bank’s allowance for loan losses and related provision and a decrease in net income. Such deterioration could also adversely impact the demand for The Bank’s products and services, and, accordingly, The Bank’s results of operations. No assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in the Bank’s interest income or an adverse impact on loan losses. 34 Table of Contents Strong competition within the Bank’s market areas could hurt expected profits and slow growth. The New York metropolitan area has a high density of financial institutions, of which many are significantly larger than Carver Federal and with greater financial resources. Additionally, various large out-of-state financial institutions may continue to enter the New York metropolitan area market. All are considered competitors to varying degrees. Carver Federal faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Competition for loans, both locally and in the aggregate, comes principally from mortgage banking companies, commercial banks, savings banks and savings and loan associations. Most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. The Bank also faces competition for deposits from money market mutual funds and other corporate and government securities funds as well as from other financial intermediaries such as brokerage firms and insurance companies. Market area competition is a factor in pricing the Bank’s loans and deposits, which could reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more challenging to effectively grow loan and deposit balances. The Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market areas. The Bank’s increased emphasis on non-residential, construction real estate lending and small business lending may increase exposure to lending risks. At March 31, 2009, $417.9 million, or 65.1%, of the Bank’s total loans receivable portfolio consisted of non-residential and construction real estate loans compared to $397.4 million, or 62.7%, at March 31, 2008. Non-residential and construction real estate loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than one-to-four family loans because they typically have larger balances and are more sensitive to changes in the economy. Payments on these loans often depend upon the successful operation and management of the underlying properties and the businesses which operate from within them; repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulation (see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). While the Bank continues to originate multi-family and commercial real estate loans, under current economic conditions, the Bank has strengthened its underwriting guidelines. As of March 31, 2009, Carver Federal is primarily offering to originate multi-family and commercial real estate loans to select customers in New York and New Jersey. The market for multi-family and commercial real estate loans does and will continue to change based upon market conditions and other factors, thereby, affecting the Bank’s election to pursue the originations of such loans in the future. At March 31, 2009, $57.5 million, or 9.0%, of the Bank’s total loans receivable consisted of business loans compared to $51.4 million, or 8.1%, at March 31, 2008. Business loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than one- to four- family loans because they typically have larger balances and are more sensitive to changes in the economy. Payments on these loans often depend upon the successful operation and management of the underlying business; repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, such as adverse economic conditions, increased competition or changes in government regulation (see Note 5 of Notes Consolidated Financial Statements). The Bank operates in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of business activities. Carver Federal is subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OTS, the FDIC, and, to a lesser extent, by the New York State Banking Department. As a result, the Bank is limited in the manner in which the Bank conducts its business, undertakes new investments and activities and obtains financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and depositors, and not to benefit the Holding Company’s stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. In addition, the Bank must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws. 35 Table of Contents On October 4, 2006, the OTS and other federal bank regulatory authorities published the Interagency Guidance on Nontraditional Mortgage Product Risk, or the Guidance. In general, the Guidance applies to all residential mortgage loan products that allow borrowers to defer repayment of principal or interest. The Guidance describes sound practices for managing risk, as well as marketing, originating and servicing nontraditional mortgage products, which include, among other things, interest-only loans. The Guidance sets forth supervisory expectations with respect to loan terms and underwriting standards, portfolio and risk management practices and consumer protection. For example, the Guidance indicates that originating interest-only loans with reduced documentation is considered a layering of risk and that institutions are expected to demonstrate mitigating factors to support their underwriting decision and the borrower’s repayment capacity. Specifically, the Guidance indicates that a lender may accept a borrower’s statement as to the borrower’s income without obtaining verification only if there are mitigating factors that clearly minimize the need for direct verification of repayment capacity and that, for many borrowers, institutions should be able to readily document income. The Bank has evaluated the Guidance for compliance, risk management practices and underwriting guidelines as they relate to originations and purchases of the subject loans, or practices relating to communications with consumers. The Guidance has no impact on the Company’s loan origination and purchase volumes or the Company’s underwriting procedures currently or in future periods. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect the Bank. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC increase the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practice. The Company has experienced, and expects to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including design, testing and audit costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For example, under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, the Company’s management is required to issue a report on the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Beginning with Carver’s fiscal 2010, Carver’s management will also be required to file an auditor’s attestation report on the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. The Company expects the implementation of these new rules and regulations to continue to increase its accounting, legal, and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming, and costly. In the event that the Company is unable to maintain or achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, Carver’s profitability and the market price of Carver’s stock may be adversely affected. In addition, the rules adopted as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could make it more difficult or more costly for the Company to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, which could make it more difficult for the Company to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on the Company’s boards of directors or as executive officers. Changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy may have a material effect on results of operations. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is in the Company’s control. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws, including with respect to federal and state taxation, may cause results of operations to differ materially. In addition, cost of compliance could adversely affect Carver’s ability to operate profitably. Further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for Carver Federal, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System. A material change in any of these conditions could have a material impact on Carver Federal, and therefore on the Company’s results of operations. 36 Table of Contents On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed the EESA into law in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of troubled assets (including mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments) from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury, the FRB and the FDIC issued a joint statement announcing additional steps aimed at stabilizing the financial markets. First, the Treasury announced the TARP CPP, a $250 billion voluntary capital purchase program available to qualifying financial institutions that sell preferred shares to the Treasury (to be funded from the $700 billion authorized for troubled asset purchases.) Second, the FDIC announced that its Board of Directors, under the authority to prevent “systemic risk” in the U.S. banking system, approved the TLGP, which is intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by permitting the FDIC to (1) guarantee certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by participating institutions under the Debt Guarantee Program and (2) fully insure non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts held at participating FDIC-insured institutions, regardless of dollar amount, under the Transaction Account Guarantee Program. Third, to further increase access to funding for businesses in all sectors of the economy, the FRB announced further details of its Commercial Paper Funding Facility, or CPFF, which provides a broad backstop for the commercial paper market. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the foregoing or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of any such program or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions and the national and regional economy is expected to materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit and the trading price of the Holding Company’s common stock. Pursuant to Carver’s participation in the TARP CPP, the Company entered into certain agreements with the Treasury that limit the Company’s activities in a number of ways and gives the Treasury the ability to impose additional restrictions as it determines. For example, the Company’s ability to declare or pay dividends on any of Carver’s shares is restricted. Specifically, the Company is not able to declare dividends payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if it is in arrears on the dividends on the senior preferred shares issued to the Treasury. Further, the Company is not permitted to increase dividends on common stock without the Treasury’s approval until the third anniversary of the investment unless the senior preferred stock issued to the Treasury has been redeemed or transferred. In addition, the Company’s ability to repurchase shares of common stock is prohibited without the Treasury’s prior consent until the third anniversary of the investment or until the senior preferred stock issued to the Treasury has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if the Company is in arrears on the dividends on the senior preferred shares issued to the Treasury. In addition, the Company must also adopt the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds equity issued under this program. These standards would generally apply to the Company’s CEO, CFO and the three next most highly compensated officers (“Senior Executives”). The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for Senior Executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required claw back of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a Senior Executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to Senior Executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each Senior Executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation would likely increase slightly the overall cost of the Company’s compensation programs. The FDIC recently adopted a restoration plan and issued a notice of proposed rulemaking and request for comment that would initially raise the assessment rate schedule, uniformly across all four risk categories into which the FDIC assigns insured institutions, by seven basis points (annualized) of insured deposits beginning on January 1, 2009. Under the proposed plan, beginning with the second quarter of 2009, the initial base assessment rates will range from 10 to 45 basis points depending on an institution’s risk category, with adjustments resulting in increased assessment rates for institutions with a significant reliance on secured liabilities and brokered deposits. Under the proposal the FDIC may continue to adopt actual rates that are higher without further notice-and-comment rulemaking subject to certain limitations. If the FDIC determines that assessment rates should be increased, institutions in all risk categories could be affected. The FDIC has exercised this authority several times in the past and could continue to raise insurance assessment rates in the future. The increased deposit insurance premiums proposed by the FDIC are expected to result in a significant increase in the Bank’s non-interest expense, which will have a material impact on the Bank’s results of operations beginning in 2009. On May 29, 2009, FDIC voted to levy a special assessment on insured institutions as part of the agency’s efforts to rebuild the DIF and help maintain public confidence in the banking system. The final rule establishes a special assessment of five basis points on each FDIC-insured depository institution’s assets, minus its Tier 1 capital, as of June 30, 2009. The special assessment will be collected September 30, 2009. 37 Table of Contents Management expects to face increased regulation and supervision of the banking industry as a result of the existing financial crisis, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed on the Company to the extent that it participates in any of the programs established or to be established by the Treasury or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase the Company’s costs and limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities. The Company is subject to certain risks with respect to liquidity. “Liquidity” refers to the Company’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support operations and to fulfill obligations, including commitments to originate loans, to repay wholesale borrowings, and to satisfy the withdrawal of deposits by customers. The Company’s primary sources of liquidity are the cash flows generated through the repayment of loans and securities, cash flows from the sale of loans and securities, deposits gathered organically through the Bank’s branch network, from socially motivated depositors, city and state agencies; and borrowed funds, primarily in the form of wholesale borrowings from the FHLB-NY. In addition, and depending on current market conditions, the Company has the ability to access the capital markets from time to time. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities are strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived; local and national economic conditions; and competition for deposits and loans in the markets the Bank serves. Furthermore, changes to the FHLB-NY’s underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings may limit or restrict the Bank’s ability to borrow, and could therefore have a significant adverse impact on liquidity. A decline in available funding could adversely impact the Bank’s ability to originate loans, invest in securities, and meet expenses, or to fulfill such obligations as repaying borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends or lend funds to the Holding Company is subject to regulatory limitations which may prevent the Holding Company from making future dividend payments or principal and interest payments on its debt obligation. Carver is a unitary savings and loan association holding company regulated by the OTS and almost all of its operating assets are owned by Carver Federal. Carver relies primarily on dividends from the Bank to pay cash dividends to its stockholders, to engage in share repurchase programs and to pay principal and interest on its trust preferred debt obligation. The OTS regulates all capital distributions by the Bank to the Company, including dividend payments. As the subsidiary of a savings and loan association holding company, Carver Federal must file a notice or an application (depending on the proposed dividend amount) with the OTS prior to each capital distribution. The OTS will disallow any proposed dividend that would result in failure to meet the OTS’ minimum capital requirements. Based on Carver Federal’s current financial condition, it is not expected that this provision will have any impact on the Company’s receipt of dividends from the Bank although it is possible. Payment of dividends by Carver Federal may also be restricted at any time, at the discretion of the OTS, if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Pursuant to Carver’s participation in the TARP CPP, the Company entered into certain agreements with the Treasury that limit the Company’s activities in a number of ways and provide the Treasury the ability to impose additional restrictions as it determines. For example, the Holding Company’s ability to declare or pay dividends on any of its shares is restricted. Specifically, the Company is not able to declare dividends payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if it is in arrears on the dividends on the senior preferred shares issued to the Treasury. Further, the Company is not permitted to increase dividends on common stock without the Treasury’s approval until the third anniversary of the investment unless the senior preferred stock issued to the Treasury has been redeemed or transferred. In addition, the Company’s ability to repurchase shares of common stock is prohibited without the Treasury’s prior consent until the third anniversary of the investment or until the senior preferred stock issued to the Treasury has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if the Company is in arrears on the dividends on the senior preferred shares issued to the Treasury. 38 Table of Contents Carver may not be able to utilize its income tax benefits. The Company’s ability to utilize the deferred tax asset generated by New Markets Tax Credit income tax benefits over the next five years, as well as other deferred tax assets, depends on its ability to meet the NMTC compliance requirements and its ability to generate sufficient taxable income from operations or from potential tax strategies to generate taxable income in the future. Since the Bank has not generated sufficient taxable income to utilize tax credits previously recognized, a deferred tax asset has been recorded in the Company’s financial statements. For additional information regarding Carver’s NMTC, refer to Item 7, “New Markets Tax Credit Award.” Carver faces system failure risks and security risks. The computer systems and network infrastructure the Company and its third party service providers use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Fire, power loss or other failures may effect Carver’s computer equipment and other technology, or that of the Company’s third party service providers. Also, the Company’s computer systems and network infrastructure could be damaged by “hacking” and “identity theft” which could adversely affect the results of Carver’s operations, or that of the Company’s third party service providers. The Bank may be required to record a charge to earnings if goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired. Under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, if impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets is determined, the Bank may be required to record a charge to earnings in the period of such determination. The Bank commenced an interim goodwill impairment analysis during the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, based on indications that the fair value of the Bank’s reporting unit may have declined below its carrying value as a result of factors such as the further decline in the Bank’s market capitalization relative to the book value of shareholders’ equity and the adverse market conditions impacting the financial services sector generally. The Company completed its interim impairment analysis during the third quarter ended December 31, 2008. A valuation specialist was engaged to assist management in its fair value assessment of goodwill. As a result of the finalization of the goodwill impairment analysis the Bank determined that goodwill was fully impaired and recorded an impairment charge of $7.1 million. However, the Bank’s tangible capital ratio and regulatory capital ratios were not affected by this non-cash expense since goodwill is not included in these calculations. The Bank is not aware of any other impairment of its intangible assets. The Company’s business could suffer if it fails to retain skilled people. The Company’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain key employees reflecting current market opportunities and challenges. Competition for the best people is intense, and the Company’s size and limited resources may present additional challenges in being able to retain the best possible employees, which could adversely affect the results of operations. A natural disaster could harm Carver’s business. Natural disasters could harm the Company’s operations directly through interference with communications, as well as through the destruction of facilities and financial information systems. Such disasters may also have an impact on collateral underlying the Bank’s loans. The Company may face higher insurance costs in the event of such disasters. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 39 Table of Contents 