Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers of the Registrant and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Cornell Companies, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in 1996. We provide correction, detention, education, rehabilitation and treatment services for adults and juveniles. We partner with federal, state, county and local government agencies to deliver quality, cost-efficient programs that we believe enable our customers to save taxpayers’ money. Our customers include the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP), Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), U.S. Marshals Service (USMS), various state Departments of Corrections, and city, county and state Departments of Human Services. Cornell offers services in structured and secure environments throughout three operating divisions: (1) adult secure institutions and detention centers; (2) juvenile justice, educational and treatment programs; and (3) adult community-based corrections and treatment programs. Cornell, through predecessor entities, began operating in juvenile operations in 1973, adult community-based programs in 1974, and adult secure operations in 1984. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for a discussion concerning our operating segments. As of December 31, 2006, we operated 76 facilities among the three business lines, representing a total operating service capacity of 18,356. We also had three facilities that were vacant, representing additional service capacity of 224. Service capacity is comprised of the number of beds currently available for service or available upon completion of construction or renovation of residential facilities and the average program capacity of non-residential community-based programs. Our facilities are located in 17 states and the District of Columbia. Additional information about Cornell can be found on our website, www.cornellcompanies.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, access to our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Alternatively, reports filed with the SEC may be viewed or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C., or the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov. Information provided on our website or on the SEC’s website is not part of this Form 10-K. Each of our Board of Directors’ standing committee charters, our corporate governance guidelines and our policy of business conduct are available on our website or, upon request, in print, free of charge. We will post on our website all waivers to or amendments of our policy of business conduct, which are required to be disclosed by applicable law and rules of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listing standards. Company Operations We provide a continuum of care to adults and juveniles in institutional, residential, and community-based settings. Regardless of service line, each of our facilities emphasizes the importance of engaging in the community as a productive, responsible citizen. In many of our adult secure institutions, we offer vocational training curricula, as well as literacy and General Equivalency Diploma (GED) programs. In our adult community-based programs, we offer job placement services, instruction on personal finance management, and other skill-based training. In most of our juvenile facilities, we provide family counseling services and behavioral counseling. In facilities throughout the organization, we provide drug and alcohol counseling for our clients. We operate our facilities and programs under the framework of our Seven Key Principles of Careâ. These principles state that our operations must maintain the safety and security of our clients, our employees, and the local community. In addition, the principles require that we hold the individuals in our care accountable for their actions and expect them to assume responsibility. Furthermore, we expect our employees to act as role models, to communicate effectively and professionally, and to treat our clients with dignity and respect. Finally, our principles call for us to manage physically clean and appropriately maintained facilities that are safe and conducive to an environment of care. 3 Quality of Operations We operate our facilities in accordance with both company and facility-specific policies and procedures. Where required by contract or otherwise deemed appropriate for our service environments, these policies and procedures are designed to meet requirements set forth by independent industry oversight organizations, including the American Correctional Association (ACA), Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), and National Commission on Correctional Health Care (NCCHC). Standards may also be implemented to meet the requirements of state Departments of Public Welfare, Departments of Protective and Regulatory Services, and Departments of Human Services and Education. We believe that accreditation and the corresponding standards of operation enhance our ability to provide quality programs and contribute to the public’s increased acceptance of our services. Internal quality control, conducted by senior facility staff and executive officers, takes the form of periodic operational, programmatic and fiscal audits; facility inspections; regular review of logs, reports and files; and strict maintenance of personnel standards, including an active training program. Each of our facilities is further subject to periodic audits and reviews performed by our contracting agencies. Industry and Business Line Summary Incarceration, detention, education and treatment services for adults and juveniles have historically been provided by various government entities. In the United States, the incarcerated and sentenced populations of adults and juveniles has continued to increase while federal, state and local governments face continuing pressures to control costs and improve service quality. These trends have caused growing consideration and acceptance towards outsourcing essential government services and functions. Services offered among our three divisions include incarceration and detention, transition from incarceration, drug and alcohol counseling and treatment, behavioral rehabilitation and treatment, vocational training and academic education for grades 3 – 12. Private-sector companies, like us, contract with government agencies to deliver these services, often at the same or higher quality and for a lower cost than what the agency can otherwise provide. Although outsourcing such essential services has historically faced opposition in the U.S., public and government acceptance has increased as standards of service improve and cost savings are documented. As government agencies face fiscal budget constraints, outsourcing to private providers can offer economically positive alternatives. Publications have documented savings from privatized incarceration in the States of Texas, Mississippi, and California – all states in which we operate. In addition, as a cost relief measure, government agencies have sought alternatives to incarceration, including reentry, education, substance abuse and behavioral health programs – all of which are services we provide. Outsourcing has a longer history in the juvenile justice and adult community-based corrections sectors of the industry. Increasingly, states, counties and local governments have used both for-profit and not-for-profit organizations to meet the needs of troubled youth and adults reintegrating into society after a time in residential treatment or prison. Recently, governments have sought alternatives to the rising costs of incarceration for offenders who are non-violent and need treatment, education and rehabilitation. Adult community-based reentry programs as well as education, substance abuse and behavioral health programs that can successfully divert an offender from prison address this need. Adult Secure Institutional Services The Bureau of Justice Statistics reports that, in 2005, while the nation’s prison population grew only two percent overall, the number of inmates in private facilities increased almost nine percent. Private facilities held six percent of all state prisoners and over 14 percent of federal prisoners in 2005. Increasingly, federal and state systems are relying upon private providers to address continuously overcrowded prisons. As of December 31, 2005, the federal prison system was operating at 34 percent above capacity. Meanwhile, heightened attention has been placed on border patrol and immigration enforcement. The President’s Budget for Fiscal Year 2008 provides $2.2 billion to support detention and removal efforts – sustaining last year’s 42 percent increase over Fiscal Year 2006. Included in this initiative are plans for 950 new detention beds, in addition to the 6,700 new beds contemplated in the Fiscal Year 2007 budget. Also included in the Fiscal Year 2008 budget is an allocation of $3.5 billion for the Border Patrol (an increase of 27 percent overt the Fiscal Year 2007 budget), including funding for 3,000 new agents. 4 We believe that our adult secure service line is well positioned to respond to these marketplace conditions. We provide low- to maximum-security incarceration and detention services. In doing so, we ensure public safety through the operation of a physically secure environment, which entails, among other security and safety measures, a routine patrol of the premises by trained correctional officers, alarmed fencing and razor wire, and centralized monitoring of activity via closed circuit camera systems. While incarcerated, offenders are offered a variety of educational, counseling and vocational programs aimed at providing a successful return to the community and a subsequent reduction in recidivism. As of December 31, 2006, we operated 10 adult secure facilities with an aggregate service capacity of 9,442. Within the division, we offer the following: · Low- to maximum-security incarceration and detention · Confinement of juveniles adjudicated as adults · Facility design, construction and operation · Use of modern security technology, including electronic controls and surveillance equipment · Education courses, including preparation and testing for the GED, English as a Second Language classes, and Adult Basic Education (ABE) · Holistic healthcare services, including medical, dental, vision, psychiatric, and individual and group counseling services · Substance abuse counseling · Life skills training, including anger management, hygiene, personal finance, employment and housing issues, and parenting skills · Religious opportunities and culturally sensitive programs · Food and laundry service · Recreational activities, including exercise programs Juvenile Justice, Educational and Treatment Services The juvenile justice industry sector includes residential, detention, shelter care, and community-based services, along with educational, rehabilitation and treatment programs. This sector is highly fragmented with several thousand providers operating across the country. Most of the private providers are small and operate in specific geographic areas. According to the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, approximately 2.2 million juveniles were arrested in 2003 (the most recent year for which data is available). Within the juvenile justice system, as of 2002, 16% of publicly- managed youth facilities operated at capacity, and another 15% operated above capacity. Juvenile justice issues present a growing area of concern for many states due to the number of youth within the judicial system, as well as the related annual expenditures for placement and treatment. A Columbia University study suggests that annual spending on the juvenile justice system is at least $14 billion. Partnerships with private providers such as Cornell can provide quality alternatives for care. In 2003, of the nearly 97,000 juveniles assigned to residential facilities in the U.S., over 30 percent were placed with private providers. In fact, from 1997 to 2003, while the overall residential population of juvenile offenders decreased 8 percent, the number housed in private facilities increased by 3 percent. Beyond addressing capacity issues within the juvenile justice system, states are also facing challenges posed by the unique needs of specialized juvenile populations, such as those with mental health issues. In a 2004 study, the National Mental Health Association reported that the prevalence of youth in the juvenile justice system with mental disorders was as high as 60 percent, as compared to 22 percent in the general population. The study also noted that, for those youth who received treatment, the recidivism rate was as much as 25 percent lower than untreated children and teens in study control groups. We believe that our juvenile services division is uniquely equipped to address the issues currently facing the juvenile justice system. We provide a broad array of services to youth, typically between the ages of 10 and 17, in residential and community-based settings. The programs and services provided at our facilities are designed to rehabilitate juveniles, hold them accountable for their actions and behaviors, and help them successfully reintegrate back into the community. An underlying principle of our juvenile programming is the Balanced and Restorative Justice (“BARJ”) model, which provides a restorative component to the victim, be it an individual, family, or community. The use of the BARJ model, in connection with our Seven Key Principles of Careâ, emphasizes accountability, competency development and community protection. 5 As of December 31, 2006, we operated 18 residential facilities and 12 non-residential community-based programs within our juvenile services division, representing operating service capacity of 4,059. We also had two vacant facilities with a service capacity of 192. Within the division, we offer the following: · Diverse treatment settings, including physically-secure, staff-secure, and community-based · Specialized treatment for unique populations, including females, drug addicts, sex offenders, fire starters, and families · Accredited alternative and special education services · Wilderness training programs and nationally accredited ropes course challenges · Individualized treatment planning and case management · Individual, group and family counseling and therapy, cognitive behavior therapy and stress and anger management instruction · Substance abuse counseling and treatment, relapse prevention and education · Life skills training, including hygiene, personal finance, employment and housing issues, and parenting skills · Holistic healthcare services including medical, dental, behavioral health and psychiatric services · Recreational activities, including exercise programs Adult Community-Based Corrections and Treatment Services Community-based corrections services involve the supervision of adult parolees and probationers. Parolees are persons who have served time in a correctional facility and have been released due to either mandatory conditional release or a parole board decision. Probationers have been charged with a crime but sentenced to probation in lieu of incarceration. Services provided to parolees and probationers include temporary housing, employment assistance, anger management instruction, personal finance management training, academic opportunities, vocational training and substance abuse or addiction counseling. The highest populations of community corrections are located in Texas and California, who collectively supervise 21 percent of all parolees and probationers in the U.S., and where some of Cornell’s largest facilities in the division are located. As of year-end 2005, the Bureau of Justice Statistics reports that over 4.9 million adults were supervised on probation or parole, up slightly from the prior year. Of this population, 43 percent of probationers were convicted of drug or alcohol-related violations, and 37 percent of parolees were convicted for drug offenses. This population requires substance abuse counseling and treatment to help them successfully re-enter their communities and remain out of the criminal justice system. Community-based treatment services include both residential and outpatient substance abuse programs. Services include short-term and long-term residential care, counseling, HIV services, DUI services, detoxification and methadone maintenance. According to the 2005 National Survey of Substance Abuse Treatment Services, for-profit substance abuse treatment facilities treated 28 percent of all clients and comprised 27 percent of all facilities. Clients in these programs can be self-admitted or referred by a local or state agency. We believe that our adult community-based programs provide positive environments of care for both corrections and treatment clients. The market is fragmented with providers located across the country. Whereas most providers in the industry are small and have limited geographic reach, Cornell offers a national presence with locations in large urban areas, as well as suburban and rural settings. The adult community-based programs provide an alternative to incarceration and a focus on transitioning offenders from a correctional facility back into society. Through a system of education, employment training, treatment, monitoring and accountability, clients are given the necessary tools to make positive life choices that can reduce the incidence of recidivism. As of December 31, 2006, we operated 27 residential community-based facilities and 9 non-residential community-based programs with a combined total service capacity of 4,855. We also had one vacant facility with a service capacity of 32. Within the division, we offer the following: · Minimum-security and staff-secure residential services · Home confinement and electronic monitoring · Substance-abuse counseling and treatment, including detoxification, testing, 12-step programs and relapse prevention services · Employment training and assistance · Education, including preparation and testing for the GED, ABE, computer courses, college-level courses and access to libraries · Vocational training 6 · Individual, group and family counseling and therapy, cognitive behavior therapy and stress and anger management instruction · Life skills training, including hygiene, personal finance, housing issues, and parenting skills · Municipal jail management Facilities At December 31, 2006, we operated 76 facilities. Additionally, we had three vacant facilities. In addition to providing management services, we develop, design and/or construct many of our facilities. Either through outright ownership or long-term leases, we control operating facilities representing a large majority of our revenues. We believe that such control increases the likelihood of contract renewal, allows us to expand existing facilities and thereby realize economies of scale, and enhances our ability to win new contracts and control repair costs. In addition, we believe that long-term control of our operating facilities allows us to better manage cost-escalation pressures. 7 The following table summarizes certain additional information with respect to our facilities as of December 31, 2006. As indicated, the majority of the facilities to which we provide services are either owned or leased under long-term leases, which are generally under terms ranging from one to 45 years. Facility Name and Location Total Service Capacity (1) Initial Contract Date (2) Company Owned/ Leased or Managed (3) Adult Secure Institutional Facilities: Baker Community Correctional Facility Baker, California 262 1987 Owned Big Spring Correctional Center Big Spring, Texas 2,646 (4) Leased (5) D. Ray James Prison Folkston, Georgia 1,640 1998 Leased (5) Donald W. Wyatt Detention Center Central Falls, Rhode Island 357 1992 Managed Great Plains Correctional Facility Hinton, Oklahoma 766 (6) Leased (5) Leo Chesney Community Correctional Facility Live Oak, California 200 1988 Leased Mesa Verde Community Correctional Facility Bakersfield, California 360 2006 Leased Moshannon Valley Correctional Center Philipsburg, Pennsylvania 1,300 2006 Owned Regional Correctional Center Albuquerque, New Mexico 970 2004 (7) Leased Walnut Grove Youth Correctional Facility Walnut Grove, Mississippi 941 2004 Managed Juvenile Justice, Educational and Treatment Facilities: Residential Facilities Alexander Youth Services Center Alexander, Arkansas 143 2001 Managed Contact Wauconda, Illinois 51 (8) Owned Cornell Abraxas Academy New Morgan, Pennsylvania 214 (9) Owned Cornell Abraxas I Marienville, Pennsylvania 274 1973 Leased (5) Cornell Abraxas II Erie, Pennsylvania 23 1974 Owned Cornell Abraxas III Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 24 1975 Owned Cornell Abraxas Center for Adolescent Females Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 108 1989 Owned Cornell Abraxas of Ohio Shelby, Ohio 108 1993 Leased (5) Cornell Abraxas Youth Center South Mountain, Pennsylvania 72 1999 Leased 8 Facility Name and Location Total Service Capacity (1) Initial Contract Date (2) Company Owned/ Leased or Managed (3) Juvenile Justice, Educational and Treatment Facilities: Residential Facilities (Continued) DuPage Adolescent Center Hinsdale, Illinois 38 (8) Owned Erie Residential Behavioral Health Program Erie, Pennsylvania 17 1999 Owned Hector Garza Residential Treatment Center San Antonio, Texas 122 (10) Leased (5) Jos-Arz Academy Washington, D.C. 70 (11) Leased Leadership Development Program South Mountain, Pennsylvania 120 1994 Leased Psychosocial Rehabilitation Unit Erie, Pennsylvania 13 1994 Owned Salt Lake Valley Detention Center Salt Lake City, Utah 160 1996 Managed Schaffner Youth Center Steelton, Pennsylvania 63 2001 Managed Southern Peaks Regional Treatment Center Canon City, Colorado 160 2004 Owned Texas Adolescent Treatment Center San Antonio, Texas 124 2003 Owned Woodridge Woodridge, Illinois 163 (8) Owned Juvenile Justice, Educational and Treatment Facilities: Non-Residential Facilities Cornell Abraxas Parenting Academy Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 36 1999 Leased Delaware Community-Based Programs Milford, Delaware 66 1994 Leased Harrisburg Day Treatment Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 45 1996 Leased Leadership Academy/ACTS Program Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 400 2001 Managed Lebanon Alternative Education Lebanon, Pennsylvania 225 2004 Managed Lehigh Valley Community-Based Programs Lehigh Valley, Pennsylvania 60 1992 Leased 9 Facility Name and Location Total Service Capacity (1) Initial Contract Date (2) Company Owned/ Leased or Managed (3) Juvenile Justice, Educational and Treatment Facilities: Non-Residential Facilities (Continued) Non-Residential Detention/Non-Residential Treatment Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 91 1999 Leased Philadelphia Alternative Education Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 165 2004 Managed Philadelphia Community-Based Programs Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 71 1992 Owned Reading Alternative Education Reading, Pennsylvania 200 2005 Leased State Reintegration Program Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 225 1991 Managed WorkBridge Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 600 1994 Leased Adult Community-Based Corrections and Treatment Facilities: Residential Facilities Beaumont Transitional Treatment Center Beaumont, Texas 180 2002 Owned (12) Cordova Center Anchorage, Alaska 192 1985 Leased (5) Dallas County Judicial Treatment Center Wilmer, Texas 300 1991 Managed El Monte Center El Monte, California 55 1993 Leased Grossman Center Leavenworth, Kansas 150 2002 Leased (12) Las Vegas Community Correctional Center Las Vegas, Nevada 100 2004 Owned Leidel Comprehensive Sanction Center Houston, Texas 190 1996 Leased (5) Lincoln County Detention Center Carrizozo, New Mexico 144 2001 Managed (12) Los Angeles City Jails (13) Los Angeles Metropolitan Area, California 247 (13) Managed (12) Marvin Gardens Center Los Angeles, California 52 1981 Leased McCabe Center Austin, Texas 90 1999 Owned (12) Mid Valley House Edinburg, Texas 96 1998 Leased (12) Midtown Center Anchorage, Alaska 32 1998 Owned 10 Facility Name and Location Total Service Capacity (1) Initial Contract Date (2) Company Owned/ Leased or Managed (3) Adult Community-Based Corrections and Treatment Facilities: Residential Facilities (Continued) Northstar Center Fairbanks, Alaska 135 1990 Leased Oakland Center Oakland, California 61 1981 Owned Parkview Center Anchorage, Alaska 112 1993 Leased (5) Reality House Brownsville, Texas 66 1998 Owned (12) Reid Community Residential Facility Houston, Texas 500 1996 Leased (5) Salt Lake City Center Salt Lake City, Utah 78 1995 Leased Seaside Center Nome, Alaska 48 1999 Leased Taylor Street Center San Francisco, California 177 1984 Owned Tundra Center Bethel, Alaska 85 1986 Leased (5) Adult Community-Based Corrections and Treatment Facilities: Non-Residential Facilities Dixon Correctional Center (14) Dixon, Illinois 68 2003 Managed East St. Louis East St. Louis, Illinois 164 (8) Leased LifeWorks Joliet, Illinois 116 (8) Leased Sentencing Concepts (15) California 900 (15) Leased (12) Southwood Chicago, Illinois 549 (8) Owned (1) Residential service capacity is comprised of the number of beds currently available for service or available upon the completion of construction or renovation of residential facilities. Non-residential service capacity is based on either contractual terms or our estimate of the number of clients to be served. We update these estimates at least annually based on the program’s budget and other factors. (2) Date from which we, or our predecessor, have had a contract for services on an uninterrupted basis. (3) We do not incur any facility use costs, such as debt service, rent or depreciation for facilities that we operate under a management contract only; however, we are responsible for all other facility operating costs at these managed facilities. (4) The Big Spring Correctional Center was originally operated under an Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”) that commenced in 1989 between the City of Big Spring and the BOP. On April 1, 2007, the IGA will be replaced by a direct contract between the BOP and the company. Refer to Item 7 - “Recent Developments – Big Spring Correctional Center” for further discussion concerning the Big Spring Correctional Center contract. (5) Facility was sold in August 2001 to Municipal Corrections Finance, L.P. (“MCF”) as part of the 2001 sale and leaseback transaction as discussed in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. 11 (6) This facility has been operated pursuant to a one-year contract with nine one-year renewal options between the Oklahoma Department of Corrections (“OK DOC”) and the Hinton Economic Development Authority, or HEDA. HEDA in turn had subcontracted the operations of this facility to the company under a 30-year operating contract with four five-year renewal options. In October 2006, HEDA provided the OK DOC with notice of intent to terminate their contract with OK DOC. Refer to Item 7 - “Significant 2006 Events – Great Plains Correctional Facility” of this report for further discussion concerning this facility and related operating contract. (7) We leased the Regional Correctional Center in January 2003 and renovated the facility in 2003 and 2004. The facility commenced operations in July and December of 2004 under an IGA between Bernalillo County and the USMS. In 2005, the IGA was replaced with a new contract between Bernalillo County and the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Detention Trustee, which allows for services to be provided to both the USMS and ICE. In 2006, we added contracts with Bernalillo County and the New Mexico Department of Corrections. (8) The Cornell Interventions programs/facilities contract with numerous agencies throughout Illinois. Initial contract dates vary by agency and range from 1974 to 1997. (9) We closed the Cornell Abraxas Academy (formerly the New Morgan Academy) in 2002. In October 2006, we reactivated the facility as a residential treatment center for youth sex offenders. Refer to Item 7 - “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Contractual Uncertainties Related to Certain Facilities – Cornell Abraxas Academy” of this report for further discussion concerning this the reactivation of this facility and the related operating contract. (10) We closed the Hector Garza Residential Treatment Center (formerly the Campbell Griffin Treatment Center) in the fourth quarter of 2005 and intend to reactivate this program in 2007. Refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Contractual Uncertainties Related to Certain Facilities – Hector Garza Residential Treatment Center” in Item 7 of this report for further discussion concerning this facility. (11) We closed the Jos-Arz Academy in 2005 and are currently considering several options for use, including the operation of a new program. (12) Facility/program was acquired in April 2005 in connection with the Company’s purchase of Correctional Systems, Inc. (CSI). (13) Los Angeles City Jails represents seven individual locations in Los Angeles, California and the surrounding area. Initial contract dates vary by agency and range from 1994-2006. (14) We manage a 68 bed dual diagnosis program located within the Special Treatment Center of the state-operated Dixon Correctional Center. (15) Sentencing Concepts represents five individual facilities in the following California locations: Anaheim, Lake Forest, San Luis Obispo, Santa Maria and Stockton. Initial contract dates vary by agency and range from 1994-2002. 12 Marketing and Business Development Our principal customers are federal, state, and local government agencies responsible for adult and juvenile corrections, treatment and educational services. We manage our business development efforts to address opportunities available in all of our divisions and potential markets. While such opportunities necessarily include forming relationships with new customers, we also believe that further potential lies in the management of our existing relationships through improved bed management and through enhancements of our contract terms. From time to time, we will also evaluate opportunities for accretive acquisition. In most instances, we pursue development opportunities through Requests for Proposal (RFPs) or Requests for Qualifications (RFQs), which are submitted in response to government agencies’ solicitations for bids. The decision to respond to such solicitations is based upon several factors, including management’s assessment of customer needs, the company’s ability to service the needs in an operationally successful and acceptably profitable manner, and the fit of the potential program within the company’s existing portfolio and strategic objectives. The solicitations generally require the bidder to demonstrate relevant operational experience. Furthermore, the response must also include descriptions of the services to be provided by the bidder and the price at which the bidder is willing to provide them. Services can include not only direct care, but also the design, construction, or renovation of the related facility. If we believe a project described in an RFP is consistent with our strategic business plan, we will submit a proposal to the requesting agency. When responding to RFPs, we typically incur costs ranging from $10,000 to $100,000 per proposal. In addition, we could incur substantial costs to acquire options to lease or purchase land for a proposed facility or to lease or purchase an existing building to house a program. The preparation of a response usually requires four to 12 weeks. The award process usually takes an additional three to nine months. If new construction is required by the contract, the selected company’s operation of the facility generally begins between 9 and 18 months following award announcement, although in some cases as early as four months. In instances where construction is required, our success depends, in part, upon our ability to acquire property that is not only satisfactory for programmatic needs but also that lies in a community where social opposition does not significantly impede our ability to operate. We may incur significant expenses in responding to such opposition, and our response may not be successful. In addition, we may choose not to respond to an RFP or may withdraw a submitted proposal if significant legal action or other forms of opposition are anticipated or encountered. In addition to responding to RFPs, we also rely upon court-referrals, insurance- or managed care-referrals, and self-referrals for business growth, particularly in our juvenile and adult community-based treatment programs. In such instances, court and community liaisons play a significant role in developing our growing network of clients. Contracts Our facility operating contracts generally provide that we will be compensated via an occupant per diem rate, fees for treatment services, guaranteed take-or-pay terms, a fixed fee, or cost-plus reimbursement. Factors we consider in determining billing rates include (1) the specified programs provided for by the contract and the related staffing levels, (2) wage levels customary in the respective geographic area, (3) whether the proposed facility is to be leased or purchased, and (4) the anticipated average occupancy levels that we believe could reasonably be maintained. Compensation is invoiced in accordance with the applicable contract and is typically paid on a monthly basis. Some of our juvenile education contracts provide for annual payments. We pursue new contracts that leverage our existing infrastructure and capabilities. The majority of our opportunities are other than take-or-pay contracts, which provide a fixed minimum revenue stream regardless of occupancy. All of the other types of contracts produce revenue that varies with the number of individuals housed or served, the types of services provided and/or the frequency of the service. Competition Because our services encompass several diverse markets, we view our competition within market segments. We believe our principal non-governmental competitors in the adult secure market are Corrections Corporation of America, Inc., The Geo Group, Inc., and Management and Training Corporation. Within our two other segments – juvenile justice, education and treatment and adult community-based corrections and treatment – we typically encounter a significantly more fragmented competitor base, which includes not only for-profit operators like ourselves but also not-for-profit organizations. Within the juvenile justice, education and treatment segment, some of our primary non-governmental competitors include ViaQuest, Youth and Family Centered Services, Securicor New Century, and Ramsay Youth Services. Our larger non-governmental competitors in the adult community-based corrections and treatment market include Dismas House, Bannum, Gateway, Salvation Army, and Volunteers of America. 13 Employees At December 31, 2006, we had 4,186 full-time employees and 467 part-time employees. We employ management, administrative and clerical, security, educational and counseling services, health services and general maintenance personnel. Approximately 745 employees at 5 of our facilities are represented by unions. Regulations The industry in which we operate is subject to federal, state and local regulations administered by a variety of regulatory authorities. Generally, prospective providers of correctional, detention, educational, treatment and community-based services must comply with a variety of applicable federal, state and local regulations, including education, healthcare and safety regulations. Our contracts frequently include extensive reporting requirements, including mandatory supervision with on-site monitoring by representatives of our contracting government agencies. In addition to regulations requiring certain contracting government agencies to enter into a competitive bidding procedure before awarding contracts, the laws of certain jurisdictions may also require us to award subcontracts on a competitive basis or to subcontract with businesses owned by women or members of minority groups. Business Concentration For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, 28.2%, 23.0% and 22.3%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues were derived from multiple contracts with the BOP. The increase in the percentage for 2006 as compared to the prior two years is due to additional BOP revenue in 2006 resulting from the activation of our Moshannon Valley Correctional Facility in April 2006. Insurance We maintain general liability insurance for all of our operations at an amount equal to $10 million per occurrence per facility and in the aggregate. We also maintain insurance in amounts management deems adequate to cover property and casualty risks, workers’ compensation, and directors’ and officers’ liability. Our contracts and the statutes of certain states in which we operate typically require us to maintain insurance. Our contracts provide that, in the event we do not maintain such insurance, the contracting agency may terminate its agreement with us. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these requirements. 14 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current plans and actual future activities and results of operations may be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Where any forward-looking statement includes a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying the forward-looking statement, we caution that, while we believe these assumptions or bases to be reasonable and in good faith, assumed facts or bases almost always vary from the actual results, and differences between assumed facts or bases and actual results can be material, depending upon the circumstances. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results, that expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and is believed to have a reasonable basis. We cannot assure you, however, that the statement of expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. The words “believe,” “could,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “may” and similar expressions will generally identify forward-looking statements. All of our forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements and any other cautionary statements that may accompany such forward-looking statements. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report. With this in mind, you should consider the risks discussed below and elsewhere in this report and other documents we file with the Commission from time to time and the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf. Resistance to privatization of correctional and detention facilities could result in our inability to obtain new contracts or the loss of existing contracts. Management of correctional and detention facilities, particularly of adult secure facilities, by private entities has not achieved complete acceptance by either the government or the public. The movement toward privatization of correctional and detention facilities has also encountered resistance from certain groups, such as labor unions, local sheriff’s departments, religious organizations and groups believing that correctional and detention facility operations should only be conducted by government agencies. Changes in the dominant political party in any market in which correctional facilities are located could have an adverse impact on privatization. Furthermore, some government agencies are not legally permitted to delegate their traditional management responsibilities for correctional and detention facilities to private companies. In addition, as a private prison manager, we are subject to government legislation and regulation restricting the ability of private prison managers to house certain types of inmates, such as inmates from other jurisdictions or inmates at medium or higher security levels. Legislation has been enacted in several states, and has previously been proposed in the United States House of Representatives, containing such restrictions. Any such legislation may have a material adverse affect on us. Any of these resistances may make it more difficult for us to renew or maintain existing contracts, to obtain new contracts or sites on which to operate new facilities or to develop or purchase facilities and lease them to government or private entities, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the short-term nature of government contracts. Many governmental agencies are legally limited in their ability to enter into long-term contracts that would bind elected officials responsible for future budgets. Therefore, many contracts with government agencies, including the BOP, typically either have a very short term or are subject to termination on short notice without cause. The majority of our contracts have primary terms of one to three years. Our contracts with governmental agencies may contain one or more renewal options that may be exercised only by the contracting governmental agency. Some of these contracts may not be renewed by the governmental agency and no assurance can be given that the governmental agency will exercise a renewal option in the future. In addition, the governmental agency may elect to solicit bids pursuant to a RFP or RFQ rather than exercise a renewal option. We may not be successful in responding to a RFP or RFQ. The non-renewal or termination of any of our significant contracts with governmental agencies, our inability to secure new facility management contracts from others or our failure to successfully respond to a RFP or RFQ could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and liquidity. To the extent we have made significant capital expenditures and have short-term contracts with our customers that are not renewed or extended, we may not recover our entire capital investment. 15 Budgetary pressure on federal, state and local governments may result in contract cancellation or a reduction in per diem rates, which would reduce our profitability. Our cash flow is subject to the receipt of sufficient funding of and timely payment by contracting governmental entities. If the appropriate governmental agency does not receive sufficient appropriations to cover its contractual obligations, a contract may be terminated or the amounts payable to us may be deferred or reduced. Federal, state and local governments have encountered, and are expected to continue to encounter, significant budgetary constraints that may result in a reduction of spending on the outsourced services that we provide. Such budgetary limitations may cause the contractual commitments to be reduced or even eliminated, which would make it unprofitable to continue operating a certain facility and require us to find alternate customers or close such facility. Many states are facing significant budget deficits and are under pressure to reduce current levels of spending or control additional spending. As a result of this increased budgetary pressure, in certain cases we have granted a few of our customers relief from formulaic increase provisions in their agreements and some of our customers have not included in their appropriation legislation amounts that would increase the per diem rates payable to us. Contractual rate increases are generally intended to offset increases in expenses and inflation. To the extent rates are not increased or are reduced, our profitability will be adversely affected. Our ability to win new contracts to develop and manage correctional, detention and treatment facilities depends on many factors outside our control. Our growth is generally dependent upon our ability to win new contracts to develop and manage new correctional, detention and treatment facilities. This depends on a number of factors we cannot control, including crime rates and sentencing patterns in various jurisdictions. Accordingly, the demand for our facilities could be adversely affected by the relaxation of enforcement efforts, leniency in conviction and sentencing practices or through the legal decriminalization of certain activities that are currently proscribed by criminal laws. For instance, changes in laws relating to drugs and controlled substances or illegal immigration could reduce the number of persons arrested, convicted and sentenced, thereby potentially reducing demand for correctional facilities to house them and community-based services to transition offenders back into the community. Similarly, reductions in crime rates could lead to reductions in arrests, convictions and sentences requiring correctional facilities. When seeking bids, most governmental entities evaluate the financial strength of the bidders. To the extent they believe we do not have sufficient financial resources, we will be unable to effectively compete for bids. Additionally, our success in obtaining new awards and contracts may depend, in part, upon our ability to locate land that can be leased or acquired on favorable terms. Furthermore, desirable locations may be in or near populated areas and, therefore, may generate legal action or other forms of opposition from residents in areas surrounding a proposed site. Our profitability may suffer if the number of offenders occupying our correctional, detention and treatment facilities decreases or there is a shift in occupancy among our divisions. Our correctional, detention and treatment facilities are dependent upon governmental agencies supplying offenders and we do not control occupancy levels at our facilities. We believe the rate of growth experienced in the adult secure sector during the late 1980s and early 1990s is stabilizing. Historically, a substantial portion of our revenues has been generated under contracts that specify a net rate per day per resident, or a per diem rate, sometimes with no minimum guaranteed occupancy levels, even though most correctional facility cost structures are relatively fixed. Under such a per diem rate structure, a decrease in occupancy levels at a particular facility could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations at such facility. A decrease in the occupancy of certain juvenile justice, education and treatment facilities would have a more significant impact on our operating results than a decrease in occupancy in the adult secure institutional services division due to higher per diem revenue at certain juvenile facilities. Social commentators and various political or governmental representatives suggest that community-based corrections of adults may be emphasized in the future as alternatives to traditional incarceration. We have historically experienced higher operating margins in the adult secure institutional services and the adult community-based corrections and treatment services sectors than in the juvenile services sector. A shift in occupancy among our segments of business operations could result in a decrease in our profitability. 16 A failure to comply with existing regulations could result in material penalties or non-renewal or termination of our contracts. Our industry is subject to a variety of federal, state and local regulations, including education, environmental, health care and safety regulations, which are administered by various regulatory authorities. We may not always successfully comply with these regulations, and failure to comply could result in material penalties or non-renewal or termination of facility management contracts. The contracts typically include extensive reporting requirements and supervision and on-site monitoring by representatives of contracting governmental agencies. Corrections officers are customarily required to meet certain training standards, and in some instances facility personnel are required to be licensed and subject to background investigation. Certain jurisdictions also require that subcontracts be awarded on a competitive basis or that we subcontract with businesses owned by members of minority groups. The failure to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations and the loss of any required license could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations at our affected facilities. Governmental agencies may investigate and audit our contracts and, if any improprieties are found, we may be required to refund revenues we have received, and/or to forego anticipated revenues and may be subject to penalties and sanctions, including prohibitions on our bidding in response to RFPs. Governmental agencies we contract with have the authority to audit and investigate our contracts with them. As part of that process, some governmental agencies review our performance on the contract, our pricing practices, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If the agency determines that we have improperly allocated costs to a specific contract, we may not be reimbursed for those costs and we could be required to refund the amount of any such costs that have been reimbursed. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities by us or we otherwise determine that these activities have occurred, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or disqualification from doing business with the government. Any adverse determination could adversely impact our ability to bid in response to RFPs in one or more jurisdictions and significantly reduce the probability of our success in the bid process for future contracts. If we fail to satisfy our contractual obligations, our ability to compete for future contracts and our financial condition may be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with contract requirements or to meet our client’s performance expectations when performing a contract could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and our reputation, which, in turn, would impact our ability to compete for new contracts. Our failure to meet contractual obligations could also result in substantial actual and consequential damages. In addition, our contracts often require us to indemnify clients for our failure to meet performance standards. Some of our contracts contain liquidated damages provisions and financial penalties related to performance failures. Although we have liability insurance, the policy limits may not be adequate to provide protection against all potential liabilities. Competitors in our industry may adversely affect the profitability of our business. We must compete with government entities and other private operators on the basis of cost, quality and range of services offered, experience in managing facilities, reputation of personnel and ability to design, finance and construct new facilities on a cost effective competitive basis. While there are barriers for companies seeking to enter into the management and operation of correctional, detention and treatment facilities, there can be no assurance that these barriers will be sufficient to limit additional competition. Certain areas of our operation may not pose a significant barrier to entry into the market by private operators. For example, private operators may not find it as difficult to bid for juvenile treatment, educational and detention services and pre-release correctional and treatment services as they do adult secure institutional, correctional and detention services. Further, our government customers may assume the management of a facility currently managed by us upon the termination of the corresponding management contract or, if such customers have capacity at their facilities, may take inmates currently housed in our facilities and transfer them to government run facilities. The resulting decrease in occupancy levels would reduce our revenue due to the per diem rate structure and could result in a significant decrease in the profitability of our business. A disturbance or violent occurrence in one of our facilities could result in closure of a facility or harm to our business. An escape, riot, disturbance or violent occurrence at one of our facilities could adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations and liquidity of our operations. Among other things, the negative publicity generated as a result of an event could adversely affect our ability to retain an existing contract or obtain future ones. In addition, if such an event were to occur, there is a possibility that the facility where the event occurred may be shut down by the relevant governmental agency. A closure 17 of certain of our facilities could adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations and liquidity of our operations. Such negative events may also result in a significant increase in our liability insurance costs. Negative media coverage, including inaccurate or misleading information, could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to bid for government contracts. The media frequently focuses its attention on private operators’ contracts with governmental agencies. If the media coverage of private operators is negative, it could influence government officials to slow the pace of outsourcing government services, which could reduce the number of RFPs. The media may also focus its attention on the activities of political consultants engaged by us, even when their activities are unrelated to our business, and we may be tainted by adverse media coverage about their activities. Moreover, inaccurate, misleading or negative media coverage about us could harm our reputation and, accordingly, our ability to bid for and win government contracts. We often incur significant costs before receiving related revenues, which could result in cash shortfalls and a risk of not recovering our investment. When we are awarded a contract to manage a new facility, we may incur significant expenses before we receive contract payments. These expenses include purchasing real estate, constructing new facilities, leasing office space, purchasing office equipment and hiring and training personnel. As a result, when the government does not fund a facility’s pre-opening and start-up costs, we may be required to invest significant sums of money before receiving related contract payments. In addition, payments due to us from governmental agencies may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of failures by our governmental customers to attain necessary budget approvals and finalize contracts in a timely manner. Several juvenile services contracts related to educational services provide for annual collection several months after a school year is completed. In addition, a contract may be terminated prior to its scheduled expiration and as a result we may not recover these expenses or realize any return on our investment. We may choose to undertake development projects without written commitments to make use of such facilities. We may not be able to obtain contracts for these facilities in a timely fashion, if at all. To the extent we do not obtain contracts, we could be unable to recover our investment and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We may be unable to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel necessary to sustain our business. Our delivery of services is labor-intensive. When we are awarded a contract, we must hire operating management, security, case management and other personnel. The success of our business requires that we attract, develop, motivate and retain these personnel. Our ability to recruit and retain qualified individuals varies by facility and is related to the socio-economic factors in the particular community in which the facility operates. The Department of Labor wages we offer our employees are often higher than wages they could obtain elsewhere in the community. However, if the local economy where a facility is located is robust and unemployment is low, we may have difficulty hiring and retaining qualified personnel. In addition, there are inherent risks associated with the nature of the services we provide, which could cause certain qualified individuals to seek other employment opportunities. We have experienced high turnover of personnel in our juvenile and adult secure facilities within the first year of their employment. Our inability to hire sufficient personnel on a timely basis or the loss of significant numbers of personnel could adversely affect our business. If we do not successfully integrate the businesses that we acquire, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be unable to manage businesses that we may acquire profitably or integrate them successfully without incurring substantial expenses, delays or other problems that could negatively impact our results of operations. Acquisitions generally require the integration of facilities, some of which may be located in states in which we do not currently have operations. Moreover, business combinations involve additional risks, including: · diversion of management’s attention; · loss of key personnel; · assumption of unanticipated legal or financial liabilities; · our becoming significantly leveraged as a result of the incurrence of debt to finance an acquisition; · unanticipated operating, accounting or management difficulties in connection with the acquired entities; · amortization or charges of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill; and · dilution to our earnings per share. 18 Also, client dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business could materially and adversely affect our reputation as a whole. Further, the acquired businesses may not achieve the revenues and earnings we anticipated. Because environmental laws impose strict as well as joint and several liability for clean up costs, unforeseen environmental risks could prove to be costly. Our facilities, and any facilities that we may acquire in the future, may be subject to unforeseen environmental risks. The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) imposes strict, as well as joint and several, liability for certain environmental cleanup costs on several classes of potentially responsible parties, including current owners and operators of the property. Other federal and state laws in certain circumstances may impose liability for environmental remediation, which costs may be substantial. Further, the operation of our facilities, and the development of new facilities, requires that we obtain, and comply with, permits and other authorizations under environmental laws. Obtaining such permits and authorizations may affect our existing facilities or could delay the opening of new facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have in the past incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses for facilities that we no longer operate. If we close a facility, we may remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which would include, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. We may also be required to incur other expenses with respect to such facilities. The potential losses associated with our inability to cancel leases may result in our keeping open underperforming facilities. As a result, ongoing lease operations at closed or under performing facilities could impair our results of operations. We may continue to operate under unprofitable contracts at facilities that we own to offset expenses associated with ownership of the facility. If we close a facility that we own, we will remain obligated for expenses associated with the facility. If our operations are unprofitable at a leased facility or if the leased facility is performing significantly below targeted levels, we would typically terminate the contract and the lease. However, we may continue to operate our contract at an owned facility to offset the expenses associated with ownership. Continued performance of such a contract could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of governmental customers for significant portion of our revenues. We currently derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from the BOP and various state agencies. The loss of, or a significant decrease in, business from the BOP or those state agencies could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our BOP contracts accounted for approximately 28.2 % of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 ($101.9 million), 23.0% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 ($71.6 million) and 22.3% for the year ended December 31, 2004 ($61.9 million). We expect to continue to depend upon the BOP and a relatively small group of other governmental customers for a significant percentage of our revenues. Because our revenues can fluctuate from period to period, we may face short-term funding shortfalls from time to time. Revenues can fluctuate from year to year due to changes in government funding policies, changes in the number of clients referred to our facilities by governmental agencies, the opening of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities and the termination of contracts for a facility or the closure of a facility. Our revenues fluctuate from quarter to quarter, based on the number of contracted days in each quarter. Because our revenues can vary, we may face short-term funding shortfalls from time to time. In addition, full-year results are not likely to be a direct multiple of any particular quarter or combination of quarters. We are subject to significant insurance costs. Worker’s compensation, employee health and general liability insurance represent significant costs to us. We continue to incur increasing insurance costs due to adverse claims experience and rising healthcare costs in general. Due to concerns over corporate governance and recent corporate accounting scandals, liability and other types of insurance have become more difficult and costly to obtain. In addition, as a result of the stockholder lawsuits brought within the last few years, our directors and officers liability insurance has increased. Unanticipated additional insurance costs could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, and the failure to obtain or maintain any necessary insurance coverage or the inability of an insurance carrier to perform under its obligations through issued coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. 19 We may be adversely affected by inflation. Many of our facility management contracts provide for fixed management fees or fees that increase by only small amounts during their term. If, due to inflation or other causes, our operating expenses, such as wages and salaries of our employees, and insurance, medical and food costs, increase at rates faster than increases, if any, in our management fees, then our profitability would be adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with ownership of real estate. Our ownership of correctional and detention facilities subjects us to risks typically associated with investments in real estate. Moreover, correctional and detention facilities are relatively illiquid and therefore, our ability to divest ourselves of one or more of our facilities promptly in response to changed conditions is limited. Investments in correctional and detention facilities subject us to risks involving potential exposure to uninsured loss. Our operating costs may be affected by the obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as the cost of complying with future legislation. In addition, although we maintain insurance for many types of losses, there are certain types of losses, such as losses from earthquakes, riots and acts of terrorism, which may be either uninsurable or for which it may not be economically feasible to obtain insurance coverage. As a result, we could lose both our capital invested in, and anticipated profits from, one or more of the facilities we own. Further, we could experience losses that may exceed the limits of our insurance coverage. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 