D. Risk Factors Speculative Nature of Mineral Exploration and Uncertainty of Development Projects Mineral exploration is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and is frequently not productive. There can be no assurance that our exploration efforts will be successful. Success in identifying and increasing mineralized material and converting such mineralized material to resources and reserves is the result of a number of factors, including the quality of a company's management, its level of geological and technical expertise, the quality of land available for exploration and other factors. Once mineral resources are discovered, it may take many years until production is possible, if at all, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish mineral resources and proven and probable reserves through drilling, to determine the optimal metallurgical process to extract metals from the ore and to construct mining and processing facilities and related access, tran sportation, power and fuel infrastructures, particularly in environmentally sensitive remote locations, such as the areas of Nunavut where our properties are located. As a result of these uncertainties, no assurance can be given that our exploration programs will result in commercial mining operations. Development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash operating costs. Particularly for development projects, estimates of mineral resources and proven and probable reserves and cash operating costs are, to a large extent, based upon the interpretation of geological data obtained from drill holes and other sampling techniques, feasibility studies which derive estimates of cash operating costs based upon anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed, the configuration of the ore body, expected recovery rates of gold, estimated operating costs, anticipated climatic conditions and other factors. As a result, it is possible that actual cash operating costs and economic returns will differ significantly from those estimated for a project prior to production. It is not unusual in new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, and delays often can occur in the commencement of production. If we should ultimately be successful in achieving commercial production at Meadowbank, our project operations, including mining, transportation of materials and shipping, may be adversely affected by severe climatic conditions, due to the remote northern location of such project. Operations Risks The business of exploratory searches for minerals and the business of mining are subject to a number of risks and hazards including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labour disputes, encountering unusual or unexpected geologic formations or other geological or grade problems, unanticipated changes in metallurgical characteristics and recovery, encountering unanticipated ground or water conditions, cave-ins, pit wall failures, flooding, rock bursts, periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions, and other acts of God or unfavourable operating conditions and bullion losses. Such risks could result in damage to, or destruction of mineral properties or processing facilities, personal injury or death, loss of key employees, environmental damage, delays in mining, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Our properties are located at high latitudes and, as a result, conducting exploration, construction o r mining operations may be hampered by severe weather conditions. Risks of Non-Availability of Insurance Where considered practical to do so, we maintain insurance against risks in the operation of our business in amounts, which we believe to be reasonable. Such insurance, however, contains exclusions and limitations on 9 coverage. There can be no assurance that such insurance will continue to be available, will be available at economically acceptable premiums or will be adequate to cover any resulting liability. In some cases, coverage is not available or considered too expensive relative to the perceived risks. We may become subject to liability for cave-ins, pollution or other hazards against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or other reasons. The payment of such liabilities would reduce the funds available for exploration and mining activities. Financing Risks and Dilution Although we currently have sufficient financial resources to undertake our presently planned exploration and development program at Meadowbank, further exploration on, and development of, our mineral properties in Nunavut will require additional capital. In addition, a positive production decision on our Meadowbank project would require significant additional capital for project engineering and construction. Accordingly, the continuing exploration and development of our projects depends upon our ability to obtain equity and debt financing on reasonable terms. There is no assurance the Company will be successful in obtaining the required financing. If we are unable to acquire additional capital we will be forced to curtail exploration and development activities and general administrative spending and may seek to joint venture or farm-out some of our properties. In addition to the need to complete additional equity financings in order to adv ance our exploration and development projects, there are a number of outstanding securities and agreements pursuant to which our common shares may be issued in the future. This would result in further dilution to our shareholders. Mineral Reserves and Resources Our published mineral reserves and resources are estimated only and no assurance can be given that probable reserves or inferred, indicated and measured resources will be moved to higher confidence levels or that any particular level of recovery of minerals will in fact be realized or that identified mineral resources will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. In addition, the grade of mineral resources ultimately mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results and such differences could be material. While the Company's reserves and resources are estimated by independent and experienced third parties, material changes in mineral reserves and resources, grades, stripping ratios, recovery rates, capital or operating costs (including fuel costs) and declines in the market price of gold may affect the economic viability of projects. It cannot be assumed that mineral resources will ever be upgraded to reserves. Limited Operating History: Losses We have limited experience in the development of mines and in the construction of facilities required to bring mines into production. We have relied and may continue to rely upon external consultants and others for expertise in these areas. We may determine that it is not commercially feasible or it is impractical to commence commercial production on our projects or, if commenced, to continue commercial operations. We have no experience in mining or processing of metals. We have experienced losses in all years of operations. As at December 31, 2004, our deficit totalled $65.7 million. All of our activities have been of an exploration nature. There can be no assurance that we will generate profits in the future. Share Price Volatility In recent years, the securities markets in the United States and Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly those considered exploration stage companies, have experienced wide fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. In particular, the per share price of our common shares fluctuated from a high of $5.25 to a low of $1.72 within our two most recent fiscal years, being 2004 and 2003. Share price fluctuations are likely to continue in the future. 10 Gold Price Volatility The market price of gold is volatile and cannot be controlled. If the price of gold should drop significantly, the economic prospects of the projects in which we have an interest could be significantly reduced or rendered uneconomic. There is no assurance that, even if commercial quantities of gold are discovered, a profitable market may exist for the sale of gold. Factors beyond our control could affect the marketability of any gold discovered or produced. Gold prices have fluctuated widely, particularly in recent years. The marketability of gold is also affected by numerous other factors beyond our control, including government regulations relating to royalties and allowable production, the effect of which cannot be accurately predicted. Factors tending to affect the price of gold include: the relative strength of the U.S. dollar against other currencies; government sale or lending of gold bullion, and perceptions of their future intentions; government monetary and fiscal policies: expectations of the future rate of global monetary inflation and interest rates; general economic conditions and the perception of risk in capital markets; political conditions including the threat of terrorism or war and restrictions on holding of gold; speculative trading; investment demand for gold; supply of gold from production, disinvestments and scrap recycling. Currency Fluctuations Currency fluctuations may affect the operating revenue that the Company realizes in the future. Gold is sold throughout the world based principally on the U.S. dollar price, but most of the Company's capital costs and expenses are expected to be incurred in Canadian dollars. The appreciation of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar could result in a decrease in the Company's future operating revenue in Canadian dollar terms. Conversely, a depreciation of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar could result in an increase in the Company's future operating revenue in Canadian dollar terms. Impact of Price increases on Construction Items The amount of capital costs associated with the development of a mining property is adversely impacted by escalations in the price of items related to construction, including steel, fuel, concrete and other construction consumables. Such price escalations are caused by numerous factors beyond the Company's control. Title Matters Some of the mining claims in which we have an interest have not been surveyed and, accordingly, the precise location of the boundaries of the claims and ownership of mineral rights on specific tracts of land comprising the claims may be in doubt. Such claims have not been converted to lease and tenure, and are, accordingly, subject to annual compliance with assessment work requirements. Other parties may dispute our title to mining properties. All of the claims on the Meadowbank property have been surveyed and converted to leases. While we have diligently investigated title to all mineral claims and, to the best of our knowledge, title to all properties is in good standing, this should not be construed as a guarantee of title. The properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers and title may be affected by undetected defects. Competition for Mineral Land There is aggressive competition within the mining industry for the discovery and acquisition of properties considered having commercial potential. We compete with other mining companies, many of which have greater financial resources than us, for the acquisition of mineral claims, leases and other mineral interests as well as for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and other personnel. 11 Key Executives We are dependent on the services of key executives, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and a small number of highly skilled and experienced executives and personnel. Due to our relatively small size, the loss of these persons or our inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees may adversely affect our business and future operations. Environmental and Other Regulatory Requirements At present, none of our properties are at the development stage. However, when a property is identified as having economic potential, government approvals, permits and licences will be required. These approvals, permits and licences will include water licenses, land use permits, fuel storage permits, mine construction and mining operations licences, which include mine waste and tailings disposal sites. Delays in obtaining or any failure to secure such approvals, permits and licences could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Existing and possible future environmental legislation, regulations and actions could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in our activities, the extent of which cannot be predicted. Before production can commence on any properties we must obtain regulatory approval and there is no assurance that such approvals will be obtained. Under the current regulations, approva l to develop a mining operation at the Meadowbank gold project requires a thorough environmental review process conducted by the Nunavut Impact Review Board ("NIRB") with final approvals by the Federal Government. Although the Company believes its exploration activities are currently carried out in accordance with all applicable rules and regulations, no assurance can be given that new rules and regulations will not be enacted or that existing rules and regulations will not be applied in a manner, which could limit or curtail production or development. Conflicts of Interest Certain of our directors and officers serve as directors or officers of other natural resource companies or have significant shareholdings in natural resource companies and, to the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which we may participate, our directors may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. In the event that such a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of our directors, a director who has such a conflict will abstain from voting for or against the approval of such participation or such terms. Under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, our directors are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. In determining whether or not we will participate in a particular program and the interest therein to be acquired by it, our directors will primarily consider the degree of risk to which we may be exposed and our financial position at that time. Enforceability of Civil Liabilities The enforcement by investors of civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the United States may be adversely affected by the fact that the Company is incorporated under the laws of a foreign country, that most of its officers and directors are residents of a foreign country and that all or a substantial portion of the assets of the Company and such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of the common shares to effect service of process on such persons within the United States or to realize in the United States upon judgments rendered against them. 12 