Item 1A. Risk Factors We may continue to experience significant losses from operations. We have experienced a loss from operations in every fiscal year since our inception. Our losses from operations were $10,481,853 in 2005 and $6,904,955 in 2004. We will continue to experience a net operating loss until, and if, the applications of our nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment technology begin generating revenues in excess of our operating expenses. Even if any or all applications of the nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment technology begin generating significant revenues, the revenues may not exceed our costs of production and operating expenses. We may not ever realize a profit from operations. Our patents and other protective measures may not adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we may be infringing on the rights of others. We regard our intellectual property, particularly our proprietary rights in our nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment technology, as critical to our success. We have received various patents, and filed other patent applications, for various applications and aspects of our nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment technology and other intellectual property. In addition, we generally enter into confidentiality and invention agreements with our employees and consultants. Such patents and agreements and various other measures we take to protect our intellectual property from use by others may not be effective for various reasons, including the following: · Our pending patent applications may not be granted for various reasons, including the existence of similar patents or defects in the applications; · The patents we have been granted may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented because of the pre-existence of similar patented or unpatented intellectual property rights or for other reasons; · Parties to the confidentiality and invention agreements may have such agreements declared unenforceable or, even if the agreements are enforceable, may breach such agreements; · The costs associated with enforcing patents, confidentiality and invention agreements or other intellectual property rights may make aggressive enforcement cost prohibitive; · Even if we enforce our rights aggressively, injunctions, fines and other penalties may be insufficient to deter violations of our intellectual property rights; and · Other persons may independently develop proprietary information and techniques that, although functionally equivalent or superior to our intellectual proprietary information and techniques, do not breach our patented or unpatented proprietary rights. Because the value of our company and common stock is rooted primarily in our proprietary intellectual property rights, our inability to protect our proprietary intellectual property rights or gain a competitive advantage from such rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may inadvertently be infringing on the proprietary rights of other persons and may be required to obtain licenses to certain intellectual property or other proprietary rights from third parties. Such licenses or proprietary rights may not be made available under acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain required licenses or proprietary rights, we could encounter delays in product development or find that the development or sale of products requiring such licenses is foreclosed. 23 Table of Contents Our competitors have more resources than we do, which may give them a competitive advantage. We have limited financial and other resources and, because of our early stage of development, have limited access to capital. We compete or may compete against entities that are much larger than we are, have more extensive resources than we do and have an established reputation and operating history. Because of their size, resources, reputation, history and other factors, certain of our competitors may be able to exploit acquisition, development and joint venture opportunities more rapidly, easily or thoroughly than we can. In addition, potential customers may choose to do business with our more established competitors, without regard to the comparative quality of our products, because of their perception that our competitors are more stable, are more likely to complete various projects, are more likely to continue as a going concern and lend greater credibility to any joint venture. We may not be able to generate substantial revenues from the licensing of RenaZorb. On January 28, 2005, we entered into a license agreement with Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. under which we granted Spectrum the exclusive worldwide rights to develop, market and sell RenaZorb, a potential drug candidate for patients with kidney disease, for human therapeutic and diagnostic applications. Under the terms of the license, we will not generate substantial recurring revenues unless and until Spectrum completes clinical testing of RenaZorb and applies for and receives marketing approval from the FDA and similar regulatory agencies worldwide, begins marketing products containing RenaZorb and experiences substantial, sustained market penetration with such products. There are substantial risks associated with that process, including the following: · further testing conducted by Spectrum may indicate that RenaZorb is less effective than existing products, is unsafe, has significant side effects or is otherwise not viable; · Spectrum may be unable to obtain FDA or other regulatory approval of RenaZorb for technical, political or other reasons or, even if it obtains such approval, may not obtain such approval on a timely basis; · products containing RenaZorb may not be accepted in the market for various reasons, including questions about its efficacy, safety and side effects or because of poor marketing by Spectrum; · Spectrum may terminate the license agreement, experience financial or other problems or otherwise fail to effectively test, seek approval for and market RenaZorb; · the arbitration currently ongoing (see Item 3, Legal Proceedings) could seriously delay commercialization of RenaZorb: and · prior to or following regulatory approval, superior products may be developed and introduced into the market. If any of the foregoing risks, or other risks associated with developing pharmaceutical products were to occur, we would not receive substantial, recurring revenue from our license with Spectrum. Our lithium titanate spinel, with potential application in the rechargeable battery market, has not been commercialized and may not generate significant revenue. We are still testing and developing our lithium titanate spinel nanomaterial technology, which has potential applications in rechargeable batteries. Although we have entered a partnering agreement with Advanced Battery Technologies, Inc. for the development of lithium polymer batteries in China and have supplied them with nanomaterials for their use in design and development of the batteries, the project is in the early stages and substantial design, development and testing work remains to be done. We have not entered into written partnering or development agreements with any other battery manufacturers or end users. Even if Advanced Battery or other potential partners are successful in producing battery products with our nanomaterial technology: 24 Table of Contents · batteries utilizing the technology may not exhibit expected charge rates, discharge rates or durability run time or other features when used in real world applications; · batteries incorporating the technology may not meet the distinct needs of potential customers, applications or industries or otherwise prove competitive with existing technologies or technologies under development on account of technical limitations, such as a short run time between charges; · marketing and branding efforts by us, a potential strategic partner or others may be insufficient to attract a sufficient number of customers; and · competitors may have developed, or be in the process of developing, batteries or materials that are better suited to our target markets than batteries using our materials. We may not benefit from licenses to use our technology for titanium dioxide pigment production. Because of our relatively small size and limited resources, we do not plan to use our titanium processing technology for large-scale production of titanium dioxide pigments. We have entered into discussions with various minerals and materials companies about licensing our technology to such entities for large-scale production of titanium dioxide pigments. To date, we have entered into a license agreement with only one such entity, Western Oil Sands, Inc. Under our license agreement with Western Oil Sands, we expect to receive a limited amount of revenue during the early testing and development phase of the agreement but will receive significant royalties only if Western Oil Sands and licensees of Western Oil Sands determine in their discretion, after testing at a demonstration plant, to construct or license the construction of a full-scale titanium pigment production facility. If we enter into other license agreements, we expect that, as with the Western Oil Sands agreement, we would not receive significant revenues from such licenses unless and until feasibility testing yielded positive results and the licensee determined, in its discretion, to construct and operate a titanium pigment production facility. We may not be able to sell nanoparticles produced using our nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment technology. We plan to use the nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment technology to produce titanium dioxide nanoparticles for various applications. Titanium dioxide nanoparticles and other products we intend to initially produce with the nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment technology generally must be customized for a specific application working in cooperation with the end-user. We are still testing and customizing our titanium dioxide nanoparticle products for various applications and have no long-term agreements with end-users to purchase any of our titanium dioxide nanoparticle products. We may be unable to recoup our investment in the nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment technology and nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment equipment for various reasons, including the following: · products utilizing our titanium dioxide nanoparticle products, most of which are in the research or development stage, may not be completed or, if completed, may not be readily accepted by expected end-users; · we may be unable to customize our titanium dioxide nanoparticle products to meet the distinct needs of potential customers; · potential customers may purchase from competitors because of perceived or actual quality or compatibility differences; · our marketing and branding efforts may be insufficient to attract a sufficient number of customers; and · because of our limited funding, we may be unable to continue our development efforts until a strong market for nanoparticles develops. Our costs of production may be too high to permit profitability. We have not produced any pigments, nanoparticles or other products using our nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment technology and equipment on a sustained commercial basis. Our actual costs of production, or those of our licensees, may exceed those of competitors. Even if our costs of production are lower, competitors may be able to sell titanium dioxide and other products at a lower price than is economical for us or our licensees. 25 Table of Contents We have issued a $3,000,000 note to secure the purchase of the land and the building where our nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment assets are located. In August 2002, we entered into a purchase and sale agreement with BHP Minerals International Inc. to purchase the land, building and fixtures in Reno, Nevada where our nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment assets are located. In connection with this transaction, we issued to BHP a note in the amount of $3,000,000, at an interest rate of 7%, secured by the property we acquired. The first payment of $600,000 of principal plus accrued interest was due and paid February 8, 2006. Additional payments of $600,000 plus accrued interest are due annually on February 8, 2007 through 2010. If we fail to make the required payments on the note, BHP has the right to foreclose and take the property. If this should occur, we would be required to relocate our primary operating assets and offices, causing a significant disruption in our business. We may not be able to raise sufficient capital to meet future obligations. As of March 3, 2006, we had approximately $19.5 million in cash, an amount sufficient to fund our ongoing operations for approximately 2-3 years at current working capital expenditure levels. However, we may use our existing capital sooner than projected in connection with capital expenditures, transactions, litigation or other events that are not currently reflected in our projections. We may also use more capital than projected as we expand our research, development and marketing efforts. Unless we experience a significant increase in revenue, we will need to raise additional capital in the future in order to sustain our ongoing operations, continue unfinished testing and additional development work and, if certain of our products have been commercialized, produce and market such products. We may not be able to obtain the amount of additional capital needed or may be forced to pay an extremely high price for capital. Factors affecting the availability and price of capital may include the following: · market factors affecting the availability and cost of capital generally; · the price, volatility and trading volume of our shares of common stock; · our financial results, particularly the amount of revenue we are generating from operations; · the amount of our capital needs; · the market’s perception of nanotechnology and/or chemical stocks; · the economics of projects being pursued; and · the market’s perception of our ability to generate revenue through the licensing or use of our nanoparticle technology for pharmaceutical, pigment production, nanoparticle production and other uses. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital or are forced to pay a high price for capital, we may be unable to meet future obligations or adequately exploit existing or future opportunities, and may be forced to discontinue operations. Operations using the nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment technology or our Tennessee mineral property may lead to substantial environmental liability. Virtually any prior or future use of the nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment technology is subject to federal, state and local environmental laws. In addition, we have constructed a pilot plant on, and are in the process of reclaiming mineral property that we leased in Tennessee. Under such laws, we may be jointly and severally liable with prior property owners for the treatment, cleanup, remediation and/or removal of any hazardous substances discovered at any property we use. In addition, courts or government agencies may impose liability for, among other things, the improper release, discharge, storage, use, disposal or transportation of hazardous substances. 26 Table of Contents Certain of our experts and directors reside in Canada and may be able to avoid civil liability. We are a Canadian corporation, and three of our directors and our Canadian legal counsel are residents of Canada. As a result, investors may be unable to effect service of process upon such persons within the United States and may be unable to enforce court judgments against such persons predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. It is uncertain whether Canadian courts would (i) enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or such directors, officers or experts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws or (ii) impose liability in original actions against us or our directors, officers or experts predicated upon U.S. securities laws. We are dependent on key personnel. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on the services of Dr. Alan J. Gotcher, our Chief Executive Officer and President, Edward Dickinson, our Chief Financial Officer, Douglas Ellsworth and Roy Graham, our Senior Vice Presidents and Dr. Bruce Sabacky, our Vice President of Research and Engineering. The loss or unavailability of any or all of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our shares of common stock. We have key man insurance on the lives of Dr. Gotcher and Dr. Sabacky. We do not have agreements requiring any of our key personnel to remain with our company. We may issue substantial amounts of additional shares without stockholder approval. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of an unlimited number of shares of common stock that may be issued without any action or approval by our stockholders. In addition, we have various stock option plans that have potential for diluting the ownership interests of our stockholders. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock would further dilute the percentage ownership of our company held by existing stockholders. We have a substantial number of warrants and options outstanding and may issue a significant number of additional shares upon exercise thereof. As of March 3, 2006, there were outstanding warrants to purchase up to 1,318,556 shares of common stock and options to purchase up to 2,541,200 shares of common stock. The existence of such warrants and options, and any additional warrants and options we issue in the future, may hinder future equity offerings, and the exercise of such warrants and options may further dilute the interests of all shareholders. The shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of many of our outstanding warrants are subject to resale registration statements, and all of our options are subject to a registration statement on Form S-8. Accordingly, future resale of the shares of common stock issuable on the exercise of such warrants and options in most cases occurs immediately after exercise and may have an adverse effect on the prevailing market price of the shares of common stock. The market price of our common stock may increase or decrease dramatically at any time for any or no reason. The market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of other early stage companies, may be highly volatile. Our stock price may change dramatically as the result of announcements of product developments, new products or innovations by us or our competitors, uncertainty regarding the viability of the nanomaterials and titanium dioxide pigment technology, significant customer contracts, significant litigation or other factors or events that would be expected to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. In addition, the market price for our common stock may be affected by various factors not directly related to our business or future prospects, including the following: 27 Table of Contents · Intentional manipulation of our stock price by existing or future shareholders or a reaction by investors to trends in our stock rather than the fundamentals of our business; · A single acquisition or disposition, or several related acquisitions or dispositions, of a large number of our shares, including by short sellers covering their position; · The interest of the market in our business sector, without regard to our financial condition, results of operations or business prospects; · Positive or negative statements or projections about our company or our industry, by analysts, stock gurus and other persons; · The adoption of governmental regulations or government grant programs and similar developments in the United States or abroad that may enhance or detract from our ability to offer our products and services or affect our cost structure; and · Economic and other external market factors, such as a general decline in market prices due to poor economic indicators or investor distrust. We have never declared a cash dividend and do not intend to declare a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings, if any, for use in our business and, therefore, do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We are subject to various regulatory regimes, and may be adversely affected by allegations that we have not complied with governing rules and laws. In light of our status as a public company and our lines of business, we are subject to a variety of laws and regulatory regimes in addition to those applicable to all businesses generally. For example, we are subject to the reporting requirements applicable to Canadian and United States reporting issuers, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules of the Nasdaq Capital Market and certain state and provincial securities laws. We are also subject to state and federal environmental, health and safety laws, and rules governing department of defense contracts. Such laws and rules change frequently and are often complex. In connection with such laws, we are subject to periodic audits, inquiries and investigations. Any such audits, inquiries and investigations may divert considerable financial and human resources and adversely affect our execution of our business plan. In addition, through such audits, inquiries and investigations, we or a regulator have from time to time determined, and may in the future determine, that we are out of compliance with one or more governing rules or laws. Remedying such non-compliance may divert additional financial and human resources. In addition, in the future, we may be subject to a formal charge or determination that we have materially violated a governing law, rule or regulation. Any charge, and particularly any determination, that we had materially violated a governing law would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock, our ability to execute our business plan and our ability to retain and attract qualified management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 28 Table of Contents Item 