Item 1A. Risk Factors This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, without limitation, statements regarding our intention to shift more of our focus towards the management and support of customers’ enterprise, e-commerce and m-commerce applications. Our business, operations and financial conditions are subject to various risks. Our material risks that are currently known to management are described. This section may not describe all risks associated with us, our industry or business. The factors discussed below could cause actual results and developments to be materially different from those expressed in or implied by such statements. If we are unable to generate new sales and attain profitability, our business and financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our lack of profitability over recent periods may impact our ability to attract customers, employees, investors and creditors. Our ability to achieve profitability in future periods will depend in large part on our ability to generate new sales, particularly annuity-based engagements, to improve our rate of employee utilization, and to manage selling, general and administrative expenses in proportion to our top line. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate profits or that a failure to do so would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The departure of one or more key employees may have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of the key members of our management team, as well as marketing and sales personnel, and our ability to attract retain new management and other personnel. In addition, our future performance depends on the ability to effectively transition key management, sales and operational roles, including adequate knowledge transfer, in the event any turnover in our key personnel. The loss of any one or more of our key personnel or the failure to attract and retain key personnel or the ability to effectively manage changes in key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to remediate the weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified in this report or to improve our control environment, it could result in adverse consequences to us, including, but not limited to, a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline; increased costs and efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and further disclosures that could be viewed negatively by our stakeholders. We have reported material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we are unable to remediate such material weaknesses, to continue to improve our control environment and to prevent future material weaknesses, or to remediate any weaknesses that may arise, such failure will adversely impact our ability to: (i) effectively manage the business; (ii) timely record, process, summarize and report financial statements that fairly present, in all material aspects, our financial condition, statements of operations and cash flows; and (iii) comply with applicable law, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Furthermore, it could result in additional adverse consequences to us, including, but not limited to, a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, 16 which could cause the market price of our stock to decline and further disclosures that could be viewed negatively by our stakeholders. In addition, we will be required to comply with the internal control reporting requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 beginning in 2007. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may be costly, require a significant portion of our senior management’s time and result in disclosures that could be viewed negatively by the our stakeholders. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled employees it may adversely affect our profitability. Our business is labor intensive and, therefore, our success depends in large part on our ability to recruit, retain, train and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly project managers and other senior level technical personnel. Our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled employees is impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to, concerns regarding our financial condition and competition for employees in India which may cause increasing compensation for existing and prospective employees, and the continued ability to use stock options to compensate such highly skilled employees in light of recent changes in accounting rules related to stock options. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled employees or that a failure to do so would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to compete effectively for technical personnel in India. The market for technical personnel in India, which represents the primary recruiting market for our technical personnel, is extremely competitive resulting in increased compensation costs. These increasing compensation costs have contributed to the deterioration of our gross margins. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete for technical personnel in India or that a failure to compete would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our performance could be materially adversely affected by a general economic downturn or lessening demand in the information technology services industry. Our business and financial condition depends on the health of the general economy, as well as the information technology services industry. Our revenue and profits are driven by demand for our products and services. A lessening demand in either the overall economy or the software sector could lead to a material decrease in our future revenues and earnings. Other factors, that are beyond our control, that can also impact our performance include: (i) patterns of software and hardware capital spending by customers, (ii) information technology outsourcing trends, (iii) the timing, size and stage of projects, (iv) new service introductions by us or our competitors and the timing of new product introductions by our ERP partners, (v) levels of market acceptance for our services, (vi) general economic conditions, and (vii) the hiring of additional staff. We cannot that assure you that there will not be a general economic downturn or that such a downturn would not have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain access to external funding, we may be unable to continue our ongoing business or fund future growth. In addition to cash generated by our on-going operations, we rely on access to external sources of funding and our ability to timely collect cash from our customers to manage our business. Our ability to continue our ongoing business operations and fund future growth depends on our ability to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants in our credit facility or to secure alternate sources of 17 financing. However, such alternate financing may not be available or if available may not be on terms favorable to us. The information technology services industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively. The markets for our services are highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. The increased competition in the industry, among other negative effects, may cause a decrease in our billing and employee utilization rates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively or that our inability to compete effectively would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Business and financial risks to important business partners may negatively impact our financial condition. We rely on continued relationships and business associated with SAP America and Oracle. The continued uncertainty relating to Oracle’s integration of PeopleSoft into its product offerings and the affect that this may have on general market acceptance of PeopleSoft’s products, could adversely impact our ability to sell professional consulting services related to such enterprise resource applications. If we lose any large customer, our financial condition could be materially, negatively impacted. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers and projects. Our ability to grow our business depends in large part on maintaining such customer relationships and the continuing purchasing power of such customers. The loss of any large customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will not lose a large customer or that losing a large customer would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The fact that our common stock is not listed on a national exchange may negatively impact our ability to attract investors and to use our common stock to fund future growth. Our common stock trades on the Pink Sheets. In order to maintain liquidity in our common stock, we depend upon the continuing availability of a market on which our securities may be traded. The fact that our common stock is not listed on a national exchange may impact our ability to attract investors and to use our common stock to fund future growth. We are unable to predict the outcomes of various lawsuits and legal claims or the potential losses related to those lawsuits and claims. We and certain former officers are defendants in a shareholder class action suit relating to the restatement of historical financial statements. If we are unable to defend ourselves and resolve the ongoing shareholder litigation related to our restatement of prior periods’ consolidated financial statements within the limits of our director and officer liability insurance policy such failure will adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, there is the potential for significant claims against us relating to our professional services from customers or otherwise and our ability to adequately mitigate the risk of such potential claims may impact our future financial condition. Our ability to comply with existing and future immigration regulations may impact our ability to engage and deploy consultants on billable engagements. Uncertainties resulting from pending litigation matters and from potential administrative 18 and regulatory issues may adversely affect our business, including, but not limited to, accounting, corporate governance, immigration and taxation matters. Currency fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainty relating to worldwide currency exchange rates, particularly in regard to the Indian rupee, the Euro, British Pound, Danish Krone and Japanese Yen, and the fluctuations in such exchange rates may impact our quarterly and/or annual financial results. We cannot assure you that such a fluctuation in currency would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We can not predict shifts in policy or political changes in governments which can regulate or impact our business operations, specifically in the United States and India. There is the potential for future legislation by the U.S. government regulating or taxing outsourcing which may adversely affect our business model. In addition, there is continued uncertainty relating to the current geopolitical climate, particularly relative to internal India politics and their relation to India’s continuing efforts to liberalize its economy and be receptive to economic conditions and policies favorable to our business model. Changes in India’s economic policies or additional legislation regarding information technology services businesses may adversely affect our business model. If our measures to protect our intellectual property rights are inadequate, our financial condition could be negatively impacted. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. Our future success is dependent, in part, upon our proprietary methodologies and toolsets, development tools and other intellectual property rights. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, generally require that our consultants and customers enter into such agreements, and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We also require that substantially all of our employees and consultants assign to us their rights in intellectual property developed while employed or engaged by us. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use of and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. We may be subject to increased tax liabilities, including if the spin-off of our former subsidiary, SeraNova, is determined to be taxable, we would be liable for up to approximately $65 million, which would negatively impact our financial condition. We were previously entitled to a tax holiday for certain revenue earned and expenses incurred by our existing Software Technology Parks of India Unit (“STPI Unit”) of our Hyderabad operations. Such tax holiday expired effective March 31, 2006 and therefore our future tax liability will increase. In addition, in July 2000, we completed the tax-free spin-off of SeraNova, our former subsidiary. In March 2001, SeraNova and Silverline Technologies Limited (“Silverline”) consummated the acquisition of SeraNova by Silverline. Had the acquisition of SeraNova by Silverline been contemplated at the time of the spin-off, the spin-off would have been a taxable transaction. SeraNova’s management has represented that such acquisition was not contemplated at the time of the spin-off of SeraNova by Intelligroup, and accordingly should not impact the tax-free nature of the spin-off. Although we and SeraNova are parties to a tax sharing agreement pursuant to which SeraNova agreed to indemnify Intelligroup with respect to any possible tax liability related to the spin-off, SeraNova has filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 7 of the United States Bankruptcy Code and would be unable to 19 pay the resultant tax liability pursuant to SeraNova’s indemnification obligations under its tax sharing agreement with Intelligroup. If it were determined that the spin-off was taxable, Intelligroup may have to bear the liability to pay such the tax liability, which would be material. Please refer to Note 8 to the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006. Third parties may claim that our services or deliverables infringe upon their intellectual property rights, which could result in material costs. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future, especially in light of recent developments in patent law expanding the scope of patents on software and business methods. These assertions, regardless of their validity, could result in costly and time-consuming litigation, including damage awards and indemnification payments to customers, or could require costly redesign of products or present the need to enter into royalty arrangements which could decrease margins and could adversely affect our results of operations. Any such litigation or redesign of products could also negatively impact customer confidence in our services or deliverables and could result in damage to our reputation and reduced licensing revenue. If accounting interpretations relating to revenue recognition change, our reported revenues could decline or we could be forced to make changes in our business practices. There are several accounting standards and interpretations covering revenue recognition for the software industry. These pronouncements include Statement of Position (“SOP”) 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition”, SOP 98-9, “Modification of SOP 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition”, and the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 and 104, “Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements.” These standards address software revenue recognition matters primarily from a conceptual level and do not include specific implementation guidance. We believe that our revenue has been recognized in compliance with pronouncements. The accounting profession and regulatory agencies continue to discuss various provisions of these pronouncements with the objective of providing additional guidance on their application. These discussions and the issuance of new interpretations, once finalized, could lead to unanticipated reductions in recognized revenue. They could also drive significant adjustments to our business practices which could result in increased administrative costs, lengthened sales cycles and other changes which could adversely affect our reported revenues and results of operations. Some of our clients may experience unique economic conditions that are specific to their particular industry. We provide services to clients in a wide variety of industries. Many of the industries are subject to factors and economic conditions that are unique to the particular industry and may not be reflected in the overall health of the economy in general. Our revenue growth and the realizability of our accounts receivable could be adversely affected if our clients in these particular industries encounter economic difficulties. Such difficulties could include: (1) inability of participants in the industry to access the capital or credit markets; (2) business slowdowns due to excess inventory; and (3) shortfalls in demand for the product or service produced by a particular industry. If we are unable to negotiate customer contract renewals on comparable terms, it may materially adversely effect our financial condition and results of operations. Contracts continually expire and must be renegotiated or rebid. Due to the competitive nature of our industry and variable economic status of our clients, we may experience difficulty in negotiating terms comparable to current or recently expired contracts. There can be no assurance that difficulty in 20 renegotiating or renewing contracts would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price may be extremely volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for your shares due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • changes in the information technology services industry as a result of changes in financial markets or general economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; • sales of common stock by us or members of our management team; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or the information technology services industry generally. There may be circumstances in which the interests of our major shareholders could be in conflict with your interests as a shareholder. Our major shareholders collectively own approximately 62% of our common stock on a consolidated basis as of the date of this report and control our board of directors. So long as our majority shareholders continue to own a majority to controlling interest of our common stock and control our board of directors, circumstances may occur in which the major shareholders (or other major investors) may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions, including among other things, taking advantage of certain corporate opportunities that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in us or another company in which they invest. These transactions might invoke risks to our other holders of common stock or adversely affect us or other investors, including investors who purchase common stock. 21 As a result of these factors and others, our actual results may differ materially from the results disclosed in the forward-looking statements contained in this report. 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 23 