Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a summary of the material risks related to our business and an investment in the Company’s securities. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to satisfy the written agreement with the OCC which requires us to designate a significant amount of resources in order to remain in compliance. On April 15, 2010, the Bank entered into the OCC Agreement. The OCC Agreement requires the Bank to take certain actions, including, but not limited to: • Establishing and submitting to the OCC a written capital plan, covering at least a three-year period providing for the maintenance of adequate capital to support the Bank’s risk profile and containing a dividend policy allowing dividends only if the Bank is in compliance with its capital plan and obtains the prior approval of the OCC; • Implementing a program to protect the Bank’s interest in criticized or classified assets; • Reviewing and revising the Bank’s loan review program; • Revising the Bank’s credit administration policies; and • Limiting the Bank’s brokered deposits to not more than 3.5% of total deposits without the prior approval of the OCC; subsequently amended to 6.0% as of October 18, 2012. During the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we delivered the profit and capital plans to the OCC, revised and implemented changes to our credit policies and procedures pursuant to the OCC Agreement and must continue to implement changes to such policies and procedures. The OCC has also established individual minimum capital ratio requirements of the Bank, which were to be achieved by June 30, 2010, and thereafter maintained. At December 31, 2013, the Bank met the individual minimum capital requirements as its Leverage ratio was 9.02%, its Tier 1 Capital ratio was 12.40%, and its Total Capital ratio was 13.65%. As long as we are subject to the OCC Agreement, our management and board of directors will continue to be required to focus considerable time and attention on taking corrective actions to comply with its terms. There also is no assurance that we will successfully address the OCC’s concerns in the OCC Agreement or otherwise or that we will be able to fully comply with the OCC Agreement. If we do not fully comply with the OCC Agreement, the Bank, as well as its officers and directors, could be subject to further regulatory enforcement actions, including administrative sanctions and civil money penalties. The OCC Agreement’s limitation on brokered deposits could impact our liquidity. Per the terms of the OCC Agreement, brokered deposits may not exceed 3.5% of total liabilities without the prior approval of the OCC. Effective October 18, 2012, the OCC approved an increase of this limit to 6.0%. At December 31, 2013, brokered deposits represented 3.8% of total liabilities. We have historically used brokered deposits as part of our liquidity strategy and to supplement other funding sources such as customer deposits, federal funds and FHLB advances. This restriction may limit our potential sources of liquidity in the future. Our agreement not to take dividends from the Bank without prior regulatory approval could impact our liquidity and debt service capability. Under the OCC Agreement and the Federal Reserve Bank requirements, discussed herein under “Supervision and Regulation,” a dividend may only be declared by the Bank, and accepted by the Company from the Bank, if made in accordance with the approved capital plan, the Bank remains in compliance with the capital plan following the payment of the dividend and the dividend is approved by the OCC and the Federal Reserve Bank. Dividends from the Bank have historically been our primary source of revenue. While we maintain certain liquid assets at the Company level, we also have debt service obligations on the subordinated debentures we have issued. While we believe we are capable of funding the interest obligation on our junior subordinated debentures through available cash balances, the absence of dividends from the Bank may restrict our ability to service our debt at the Company level. We have incurred significant losses and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the near term or at all. We have incurred losses from the past few years, including net losses of approximately $9.9 million, $50.5 million, and $67.5 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, primarily due to credit costs, including significant provisions for loan and lease losses in 2012 and 2011. Although we have taken a number of steps to reduce our credit exposure, at December 31, 2013, we had approximately $40.5 million in nonperforming assets and it is possible that we will continue to incur elevated credit costs over the near term, which would adversely impact our overall financial performance and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will return to profitability in the near term or at all. 15 Table of Contents Increases in nonperforming assets will have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our nonperforming assets (which consist of nonaccrual loans, assets acquired through foreclosure and troubled debt restructurings), totaled $40.5 million at December 31, 2013, which is a decrease of $62.6 million, or 60.7%, from the $103.1 million in nonperforming assets at December 31, 2012 and a decrease of $72.2 million, or 64.1%, over the $112.7 million in non-performing assets at December 31, 2011. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans and assets acquired through foreclosure. We must establish an allowance for loan losses that reserves for losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are both probable and reasonably estimable through current period provisions for loan losses. From time to time, we also write down the value of properties in our portfolio of assets acquired through foreclosure to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to assets acquired through foreclosure. The resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract management from its overall supervision of operations and other income producing activities. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance for loan losses accordingly, which will have an adverse effect on financial condition and results of operations. System failure or cyber security breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other potential losses. The Company is subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. In addition, our operations are dependent upon the ability to protect our computer systems, data processing, software and network infrastructure, including Internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, cyber security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Despite instituted safeguards, the Company cannot be certain that all of the Bank’s systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Company and Bank could be exposed to claims from customers and further actions by regulators. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity of the Company. The Company maintains a system of internal controls, which attempt to mitigate against such occurrences and maintains insurance coverage for exposures that are insurable. There can be no assurances that such internal controls will function as designed or that all losses associated with any such occurrence are insurable. We may sell a portion of our commercial real estate and industrial and consumer loan portfolios at a significant loss. In December 2013, we sold $34.8 million of classified commercial loans to third party investors for a net loss of $6.9 million. In February 2013, we sold $43.1 million of primarily non-performing commercial real estate loans, having a book balance of $33.5 million to a third-party investor for gross proceeds of $20.9 million. In May 2011, we sold $174.3 million of primarily non-performing commercial real estate loans with a book balance of $159.8 million, for a net loss of $44.3 million. We continue to evaluate other potential sales of criticized and classified assets. In our evaluation process, management analyzes, among other things, factors surrounding the borrower, the borrower’s business operation, the economy and industry specifics. A sale of all or a portion of such loans, after accounting for loan loss reserves, could result in a significant loss. Such sale could also result in significant dilution to our tangible book value per share. We may evaluate potential loan sales to strategic buyers or rehabilitate relationships through troubled debt restructuring. Selling or restructuring loans below their net book or carrying value will result in additional charge-offs and net losses on the sale of such loans, as well as dilution to our tangible book value per share, which will materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As we evaluate all of these options, we are mindful and continue to balance the strengthening of our asset quality with the potential impact on book value, diluting book value and maintaining prudent tangible equity to assets ratios. We cannot estimate with certainty the willingness of potential buyers to purchase our loans or the amounts such buyers will be willing to pay for such loans. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we can complete the sale of loans or that the net losses to operations we may incur from such sale will not be significant. The current economic and banking environments pose significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Additional concerns from some of the countries in the European Union and elsewhere have also strained the financial markets both abroad and domestically. Although there has been some improvement in the overall global macroeconomic conditions in 2013, financial institutions continue to be affected by conditions in the real estate market and the constrained financial markets. In recent years, declines in the housing market, increases in unemployment and under-employment have negatively impacted the credit performance of loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including the Bank. Reflecting concern over economic conditions, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. While the Company has seen some improvement in 2013, there continued to be stress on the Bank’s portfolio during the year. A worsening of economic conditions may further impact the Bank’s results of operations and financial condition. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Loan delinquencies could increase further; • Problem assets and foreclosures could increase further; • Demand for our products and services could decline; • Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, could decline further in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans; and • Investments in mortgage-backed securities could decline in value as a result of performance of the underlying loans or the diminution of the value of the underlying real estate collateral pressing the government sponsored agencies to honor its guarantees to principal and interest. 16 Table of Contents As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, we may experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act may significantly affect our business and results of operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. This legislation makes extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms and requires significant rule-making. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that have not yet been implemented will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new, independent federal agency called the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “Bureau”). The Bureau is granted rulemaking authority over several federal consumer financial protection laws and, in some instances, has the authority to examine and enforce compliance with these laws and regulations. In addition, on July 27, 2012, the FRB adopted a rule addressing interchange fees for debit card transactions. The rule became effective on October 1, 2012 and is expected to lower fee income generated from this source. Although this rule technically only applies to institutions with assets in excess of $10 billion, market forces are likely to drive business to the lowest cost option and community banks are expected to feel the impact. As a result of this rule change, merchants, particularly, big box retailers, have an incentive to encourage consumers to use only debit cards offered by larger banks, which may prompt them to move their checking accounts to the larger banks. The Dodd-Frank Act also permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and permits state attorneys general to, in certain circumstances, enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations. Federal preemption of state law requirements, traditionally a component of the Bank’s national bank charter, has also been modified by the Dodd-Frank Act and now requires a case-by-case determination of preemption by the OCC and eliminates preemption for subsidiaries of the Bank. Depending on the implementation of this revised federal preemption standard, the operations of the Bank could become subject to additional compliance burdens in the states in which it operates. We may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors. Our residential mortgage banking operations expose us to risks that are different from community banking. The Bank’s residential mortgage banking operations expose us to risks that are different from our retail banking operations. Our mortgage banking operations are dependent upon the level of demand for residential mortgages. During higher and rising interest rate environments, the level of refinancing activity tends to decline, which can lead to reduced volumes of business and lower revenues than currently recognized and that may not exceed our fixed costs to run the business. In addition, mortgages sold to third-party investors are typically subject to certain repurchase provisions related to borrower refinancing, defaults, fraud or other reasons stipulated in the applicable third-party investor agreements. If the fair value of a loan when repurchased is less than the fair value when sold, the Bank may be required to charge such shortfall to earnings. In addition, the Bank has made in the past, and may make in the future, residential mortgage loans that do not qualify as “Qualified Mortgage Loans” under the Dodd-Frank Act and the mortgage regulations recently issued by the Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new obligations on originators of residential mortgage loans, such as the Bank. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act requires originators to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on documented information that a borrower has a reasonable ability to repay a particular mortgage loan over the long term. If the originator cannot meet this standard, the loan may be unenforceable in foreclosure proceedings. The Dodd Frank Act contains an exception from this ability to repay rule for “qualified mortgages,” which are deemed to satisfy the rule; however, it did not define the term, and left authority to the Bureau to adopt a definition. A rule issued by the Bureau in January 2013, and effective January 10, 2014, sets forth specific underwriting criteria for a loan to qualify as a Qualified Mortgage Loan. The criteria generally exclude loans that are interest-only, have excessive upfront points or fees, have negative amortization features or balloon payments, or have terms in excess of 30 years. The underwriting criteria also impose a maximum debt to income ratio of 43%. If a loan meets these criteria and is not a “higher priced loan” as defined in regulations of the FRB, the Bureau rule establishes a safe harbor that prevents a borrower from asserting as a defense to foreclosure the failure of the originator to establish the borrower’s ability to repay. To the extent the Bank’s residential mortgage loans do not qualify for the Bureau rules’ safe harbor, such loans may expose the Bank and the Company to greater losses, or litigation related expenses and delays in taking title to collateral real estate, if these loans do not perform and borrowers challenge whether the Bank satisfied the ability to repay rule on originating the loan. 17 Table of Contents The repeal of federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense and reduce our net interest margin. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not know what interest rates or products other institutions may offer. Our interest expense could increase and our net interest margin could decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain. The federal banking agencies have approved new rules that will substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The new rules implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The new rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in over time, and would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank would include: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The new rules will also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how the new standards will ultimately be applied to the Company and the Bank. The application of more stringent capital requirements to the Company and the Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. The occurrence of various events may adversely affect our ability to fully utilize net operating losses or recover our deferred tax asset. We have experienced and may continue to experience substantial operating losses. Under Section 382 (“Section 382”) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the “Code”), and rules promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service, we may “carry forward” our net operating losses (“NOLs”) in certain circumstances to offset any current and future earnings and thus reduce our federal income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. To the extent that the NOLs do not otherwise become limited, we believe that we will be able to carry forward a significant amount of the NOLs, and therefore these NOLs could be a substantial asset to us. If, however, we experience a Section 382 ownership change, our ability to use the NOLs may be substantially limited, and the timing of the usage of the NOLs could be substantially delayed, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset. In general, an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the percentage of stock of a corporation owned by one or more “5-percent shareholders” as defined in Section 382 and the related Treasury Regulations, has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock of the corporation owned by such shareholder at any time during the three year period preceding such date. In general, persons who own 5% or more of a corporation’s stock are 5-percent shareholders, and all other persons who own less than 5% of a corporation’s stock are treated, together, as a single, public group 5-percent shareholder, regardless of whether they own an aggregate of 5% or more of a corporation’s stock. However, U.S. Treasury regulations provide circumstances which result in multiple public group 5-percent shareholders. If a corporation experiences an ownership change, it is generally subject to an annual limitation in the use of NOLs, which limits its ability to use its NOLs to an amount equal to the equity value of the corporation multiplied by the federal long-term tax-exempt rate. If we were to experience an ownership change, we could potentially have, in the future, higher United States federal income tax liabilities than we would otherwise have had and it may also result in certain other adverse tax consequences to us. In the third quarter of 2010, we recorded a valuation allowance of $49.9 million against our entire deferred tax asset due to a sustained period of quarterly losses. The valuation allowance had a negative impact on earnings and capital. At December 31, 2013, the Company had a valuation allowance of $119.3 million against its deferred tax asset. The release of this valuation allowance would have a positive impact on earnings and capital but is dependent on our ability to provide positive evidence of a return to sustained profitability. There can be no assurance as to when we could be in a position to recapture the benefits of our deferred tax asset. 18 Table of Contents Governmental regulation and regulatory actions against us may impair our operations or restrict our growth. We are subject to significant governmental supervision and regulation. These regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. Within the last several years, Congress and the President have passed and enacted significant changes to these statutes and regulations. There can be no assurance that such changes to the statutes and regulations or to their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. In addition to governmental supervision and regulation, we are subject to changes in other federal and state laws, including changes in tax laws, which could materially affect the banking industry. We are subject to the rules and regulations of the FRB and the OCC. If we fail to comply with federal bank regulations, the regulators may limit our activities or growth, fine us or ultimately put us out of business. Banking laws and regulations change from time to time. Bank regulations can hinder our ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated in the same manner or are less regulated. Federal and state bank regulatory agencies regulate many aspects of our operations. These areas include: • The capital that must be maintained; • The kinds of activities that we can engage in; • The kinds and amounts of investments that we can make; • The locations of our offices; • Insurance of deposits and the premiums that we must pay for this insurance; and • How much cash we must set aside as reserves for deposits. In addition, we are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations regarding corporate governance and permissible business activities, processing of Federal Housing Authority (“FHA”) insured mortgage loans, acquisition and merger restrictions, limitations on intercompany transactions, capital adequacy requirements and requirements for anti-money laundering programs and other compliance matters. These regulations are also designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers, but not for the benefit of our shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may continue to be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, which is not in our control. Significant new laws, or changes to existing laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Overall compliance with the regulation increases our operating expenses, requires a significant amount of management’s attention and could be a competitive disadvantage with respect to non-regulated competitors. In addition, due to the ongoing economic downturn and the resultant deterioration in the real estate markets and adverse impact on our loan portfolio and financial results, we may be the subject of additional regulatory actions in the future and face further limitations on our business, which would impair our operations and restrict our growth. If we fail to meet any regulatory capital requirement or are otherwise deemed to be operating in an unsafe and unsound manner or in violation of law, we may be subject to a variety of informal or formal remedial measures and enforcement actions, in addition to the OCC Agreement and individual minimum capital ratios currently imposed on us by the OCC. Such informal remedial measures and enforcement actions may include additional memorandums of understanding, which are initiated by the regulator and outline an institution’s agreement to take specified actions within specified time periods to correct violations of law or unsafe and unsound practices. In addition, as part of our regular examination process, regulators may advise us to operate under various restrictions as a prudential matter. Any of these restrictions, in whatever manner imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to informal remedial actions, we may be subject to additional formal enforcement actions beyond those to which we are currently subject. Formal enforcement actions include written agreements, cease and desist orders, the imposition of substantial fines and other civil penalties and, in the most severe cases, the termination of deposit insurance or the appointment of a conservator or receiver. Furthermore, if the Bank fails to meet any regulatory capital requirement, it will be subject to the OCC’s prompt corrective action regulations, which impose progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions as the capital category of an institution declines, up to and including ultimately, the appointment of a conservator or receiver. A failure to meet regulatory capital requirements could also subject us to capital raising requirements. Possible enforcement actions against us could include the issuance of a cease-and-desist order that could be judicially enforced, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, the issuance of directives to increase capital or to enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party, the appointment of a conservator or receiver, the termination of insurance of deposits, the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against institution-affiliated parties, and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. Any remedial measure or enforcement action, whether formal or informal, could impose further restrictions on our ability to operate our business and adversely affect our prospects, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, any formal enforcement action could harm our reputation and our ability to retain and attract customers and impact the trading price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain our FHA license, our ability to issue FHA-insured mortgages and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are licensed by the FHA, an agency within the Department of Housing and Urban Development, to process single-family mortgages that are backed by FHA insurance. If we fail to maintain proper FHA licensure, we would lose access to a portion of the mortgage market, and our mortgage business would be adversely affected. In addition, our FHA-insured mortgage loans are typically sold to investors with recourse upon the occurrence of such events. If any such event occurred, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans from investors. 19 Table of Contents We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums, special assessments or taxes that could adversely affect our results of operations. Market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result, we may be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments or taxes that could adversely affect our results of operations. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures or if the Company continues to incur significant losses, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the levels imposed in 2013. These increases and any future increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums or taxes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. The market value of our securities portfolio may be impacted by the level of interest rates and the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers. If a decline in market value of a security is determined to be other-than-temporary, under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we are required to write these securities down to their estimated fair value through a charge to earnings. At December 31, 2013, we owned one non-rated single issuer trust preferred security classified as available for sale with an amortized cost of $3.8 million and an estimated fair value of $2.5 million on which the cumulative other-than-temporary impairment is $1.2 million as of December 31, 2013. The Company did not recognize a credit related impairment loss on this security in 2013 or 2012. We perform an ongoing analysis of this security. Future changes in interest rates or the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers may reduce the market value of this and other securities we own from time to time. We are, through the Bank, a member of the FHLBNY, and are required to maintain an investment in shares of its capital stock, which are restricted in that they can only be redeemed by the issuer at par value. On January 8, 2009, Moody’s Global Banking issued a report stating the potential for a significant other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charge on private label mortgage-backed securities held by the Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLBanks”). Of the 12 regional FHLBanks, capital levels for eight of these banks would be in jeopardy of meeting minimum regulatory capital requirements under a “worst-case” scenario that assumes all private-label securities owned by the FHLBanks are deemed to be impaired. The capital levels of the other four FHLBanks, which includes FHLBNY, would remain above minimum regulatory capital requirements under the same scenario. We do not believe that an OTTI of its holdings existed as of December 31, 2013 and will continue to monitor the financial performance of the FHLBNY. If the FHLBNY is unable to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements or is required to aid the remaining FHLBanks, our holdings in the FHLBNY may be determined to be other than temporarily impaired and may require a charge to our earnings which could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our loan portfolio includes a substantial amount of commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans. The credit risk related to these types of loans is greater than the risk related to residential loans. Our commercial loan portfolios, which include commercial real estate loans, totaled $1.6 billion at December 31, 2013, comprising approximately 74% of our total gross loans held-for-investment. Commercial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of risk of nonpayment or late payment than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans. Furthermore, commercial real estate loans secured by owner-occupied properties are dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. If the operating company suffers difficulties in terms of sales volume and/or profitability, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Loans secured by properties where repayment is dependent upon payment of rent by third party tenants or the sale of the property may be impacted by loss of tenants, lower lease rates needed to attract new tenants or the inability to sell a completed project in a timely fashion and at a profit. The collateral for our commercial loans that are secured by real estate are classified as 45% owner-occupied properties and 55% non-owner occupied properties. Overall, our market has expanded within the State of New Jersey. Likewise, our commercial lending activities have grown, especially in the central and more recently the northern parts of the State. A significant broad based deterioration in economic conditions throughout New Jersey, including the real estate markets, could have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of our loan portfolios and, consequently, on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to provide an adequate allowance for loan losses, there could be a significant negative impact on our results of operations. The risk of loan losses varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value of the collateral for the loan. Based upon factors such as historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and a regular review of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses. At December 31, 2013, our allowance for loan losses was approximately $35.5 million which represented approximately 1.66% of total loans held-for-investment and approximately 93.6% of nonperforming loans. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future credit losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly and adversely affected. Although we attempt to mitigate the credit risks associated with our underwriting standards and collection procedures, these standards and procedures may not offer adequate protection against the risk of default, especially in periods of economic uncertainty and high unemployment, such as have existed over much of the past several years. Given that the components of the allowance are based partially on historical losses and on risk rating changes in response to recent events, required reserves may trail the emergence of any unforeseen deterioration in credit quality. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to achieve our growth plans or effectively manage our growth. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. Particularly in light of prevailing economic conditions, we cannot assure you we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully grow depends on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. There can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or that growth will be successfully managed. We face risks with respect to any future acquisitions. We may acquire other financial institutions or part of those institutions in the future. We may also consider and enter into other new lines of business or offer new products or services. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks. Our success depends on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements from acquisitions and to combine the businesses of the acquired companies in a manner that permits growth without materially disrupting existing customer relationships or resulting in decreased revenue due to a loss of customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Additionally, if the integration efforts following acquisitions are not successfully managed, the failure of these integration efforts could result in loan losses, deposit attrition, operating costs, loss of key employees, disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or result in unanticipated losses. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. The market areas in which we operate are among the most highly competitive in the country. There is substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting and retaining deposits. The competition comes principally from other banks (both larger and smaller) savings institutions, credit unions, mortgage banking companies and the myriad of nonbanking competitors, such as full service brokerage firms, money market mutual funds, insurance companies and other institutional lenders. Ultimately, competition may adversely affect the rates we pay on deposits and charges on loans, thereby potentially adversely affecting our profitability and results of operations. We rely on other companies to provide certain services and key components of our business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide certain services and key components of our business infrastructure, including certain of our fee income services such as cash management services and leasing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers or otherwise conduct our business efficiently and effectively. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain skilled people and an inability to do so could further impact our business. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense, and we may not be able to hire sufficiently skilled people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Changes in interest rates may reduce our profits. The most significant component of our net income is net interest income, which accounted for 74% of total revenue in fiscal 2013. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income generated on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense paid on the funds required to support earning assets, namely deposits and borrowed funds. Interest income, which represents income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the level of interest rates, the interest rate sensitivity of the earning assets and the levels of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds is a function of the amount and type of funds required to support the earning assets, the rates paid to attract and retain deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of non-interest bearing demand deposits. Interest rate sensitivity is a measure of how our assets and liabilities react to changes in market interest rates. We expect that this interest sensitivity will not always be perfectly balanced. This means that either our interest-earning assets will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest bearing liabilities, or vice versa. If more interest-earning assets than interest –bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are declining, then our net interest income may be reduced. If more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are rising, then our net income may be reduced. 21 Table of Contents Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the policies of the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including the available for sale securities portfolio, and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets. Changes in monetary policy could also expose us to the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. Any substantial, unexpected and prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to liquidate our collateralized loan obligation investments under the provisions of the Volcker Rule. At December 31, 2013, we had 11 collateralized loan obligation securities with an amortized cost of $73.9 million, an estimated fair value of $73.2 million and an unrealized loss of $686 thousand. These securities are subject to the provisions of the Volcker Rule. However, a final determination has yet to be made on whether banks will be required to divest these investments. Discussion has been ongoing among the regulators, Congress and the investors in collateralized loan obligations. If it is ultimately determined that these investments must be liquidated, we could incur substantial losses through the sales as significant pricing volatility could be created from market uncertainty surrounding these investments as a result of potentially limited demand. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If the goodwill and intangible assets that we have recorded in connection with our acquisitions becomes impaired, there could be a negative impact on our profitability. Under the acquisition method of accounting for all business combinations, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company’s net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. At December 31, 2013, we had $39.0 million of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment are to be charged to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment is determined. No impairment was identified in 2013. At December 31, 2013, $38.2 million of goodwill remained on our balance sheet. Our intangible asset balances were not impaired at December 31, 2013 and 2012. There can be no assurance that the future evaluations of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets will not result in determinations of further impairments and write-downs which could have an adverse non-cash impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation. From time to time, we are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. Management evaluates these claims and proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimates, if possible, the amount of potential losses. We may establish a reserve, as appropriate, based upon our assessments and estimates in accordance with our accounting policies. We base our assessments, estimates and disclosures on the information available to us at the time and rely on the judgment of our management with respect to those assessments, estimates and disclosures. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from assessments and estimates, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell shares of common stock at times or prices they find attractive. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, in addition to those described in the “Forward Looking Statements,” the following: • Actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • Changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to us or other financial institutions; • Speculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to our reputation or the financial services industry; • Strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, dispositions or financings; • Fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • Future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • Proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; • Domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and • General market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities of many companies, often unrelated to such companies’ operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our stock price, notwithstanding our operating results. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate and there can be no assurances about the levels of the market prices for our common stock. Trading volume of our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies which may adversely affect the market price and limit shareholders’ ability to quickly and easily sell their common stock, particularly in large quantities. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the price of our common stock to decline. As a result, shareholders may find it difficult to sell a significant number of shares at the prevailing market price. The terms of the securities purchase agreements grant certain rights to WL Ross, the Brown Family, Siguler Guff Shareholders, Anchorage and Other Investors that other shareholders do not have. On September 22, 2010, the Company completed the issuance and sale of 4,672,750 shares of our common stock and 88,009 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock to WL Ross, the Siguler Guff Shareholders, the Brown Family and the Other Investors pursuant to securities purchase agreements dated July 7, 2010. The Series B Preferred Stock converted into 22,002,250 shares of common stock at a conversion price of $4.00 per share. On March 22, 2011, the Company completed a public offering of 28,750,000 shares of common stock at a public offering price of $3.00 per share, which included the full exercise of the over-allotment option granted to the underwriters to purchase an additional 3,750,000 shares of common stock. After deducting the underwriting discount and offering expenses payable by the Company, the net proceeds were $81.4 million. The Company’s three largest shareholders, WL Ross, Siguler Guff, and the Brown family, along with certain officers and directors, purchased an aggregate of 10,193,224 shares in the offering. WL Ross and the Siguler Guff Shareholders maintained their percentage interest in the Company in the offering. Pursuant to the terms of the securities purchase agreements entered into between WL Ross, the Siguler Guff Shareholders, the Brown family and the Company in connection with the private placement of Company securities in July 2010, each of these investors was entitled to purchase shares in the offering at $2.85 per share which represented the public offering price less the underwriting discount of $0.15 per share paid to the underwriters on the other shares sold. On April 11, 2011, the Company issued and sold in a private placement transaction an additional 3,802,131 shares at $2.85 per share totaling $10.8 million in additional stock proceeds pursuant to the exercise of gross-up rights contained in the previously executed security purchase agreements with the three investors noted above. The gross-up rights were triggered by the underwriters’ exercise of the over-allotment option in the public offering. On August 8, 2011, the Company issued approximately 2,378,232 additional shares at $2.85 per share totaling $6.8 million in stock proceeds pursuant to the exercise of gross-up rights. The transactions were triggered pursuant to the gross-up rights issued to Anchorage, in connection with its purchase of shares in the public offering. Pursuant to the securities purchase agreements, we granted registration rights to WL Ross, the Siguler Guff Shareholders, Anchorage, the Brown Family and the Other Investors, which provide them with the right to include their shares of our common stock in any future registration statement filed by us with the SEC for resale by them (“piggyback registration rights”). We filed a registration statement to cover the resale of these shares which has been declared effective. In addition, pursuant to the securities purchase agreements entered into with each of WL Ross, the Siguler Guff Shareholders and the Brown Family and the gross-up agreement entered into with Anchorage, each has certain “gross-up” rights in connection with certain securities offerings that we may conduct at the same price (net of underwriting discounts) and on the same terms as those proposed in the offering in an aggregate amount sufficient to enable them to maintain their respective ownership interest in us. 23 Table of Contents We may issue additional equity securities, or engage in other transactions which dilute our book value or affect the priority of the common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our board of directors may determine from time to time that we need to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares of our common stock or other securities. Except pursuant to the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market, we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings, or the prices at which such offerings may be affected. Such offerings could be dilutive to common shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or protection against dilution. New investors also may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to, and that adversely affect, our then current common shareholders. We may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or the Bank’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of our shareholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or upon our dissolution, winding-up and liquidation and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates own approximately 42% of the outstanding common stock. As a result of their combined ownership, our directors and executive officers could make it more difficult to obtain approval for some matters submitted to a shareholder vote, including acquisitions of our Company. The results of the vote may be contrary to the desires or interests of the other shareholders. Directors and executive officers and their affiliates own approximately 42% of the outstanding shares of common stock at December 31, 2013, excluding shares which may be acquired upon the exercise of stock options or upon the vesting of restricted stock. By voting against a proposal submitted to shareholders, the directors and officers, as a group, may be able to make approval more difficult for proposals requiring the vote of shareholders, such as some mergers, share exchanges, asset sales, and amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the New Jersey Business Corporation Act could deter takeovers which are opposed by the Board of Directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires the approval of 80% of our outstanding shares for any merger or consolidation unless the transaction meets certain fair price criteria or the business combination has been approved or authorized by the Board of Directors. As a New Jersey corporation with a class of securities registered with the SEC, we are governed by certain provisions of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act that also restrict business combinations with shareholders owning 10% or more of our outstanding shares (“interested shareholders”) for a period of five years after such interested shareholder achieves such status unless the business combination is approved by the Board of Directors prior to the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder. The New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act also restricts business combinations with an interested shareholder after the five-year period unless the transaction receives the approval of two-thirds of the shares outstanding, exclusive of the shares held by the interested shareholder or the transaction satisfies certain fair price requirements. In addition, with certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be “acting in concert” from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of directors or otherwise direct the management or policies of any banking holding company without prior notice or application to and the approval of the FRB. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC or any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this document or in the documents incorporated by reference herein or therein and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. We are subject to various restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. As a bank holding company, our ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations. We have not historically paid a cash dividend on our common stock and are subject to various restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. 24 Table of Contents In October 2011, our Board of Directors resolved, among other things, not to declare or pay any cash dividends or take any cash dividends from the Bank without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the securities purchase agreements entered into by us in July 2010, we also agreed not to declare or pay any dividends on our capital stock through December 31, 2012. Further, pursuant to the terms of the OCC Agreement, the Bank may not pay any dividends if it is not in compliance with its approved capital plan or if the effect of the dividend would be to cause the Bank to not be in compliance and, in either event, not without prior OCC approval. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will pay dividends to our shareholders in the future. We are prohibited from paying interest, principal or other sums on trust preferred securities or any related subordinated debentures without prior Federal Reserve Bank approval, which could result in a default of the terms of the agreements governing those securities. We are required to seek the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Bank before paying interest, principal or other sums on trust preferred securities or any related subordinated debentures. We expect to seek the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Bank before paying any interest on our junior subordinated debentures (which will be used to make distributions on the trust preferred securities.) Under the applicable indentures, we have the right, from time to time, and without causing an event of default, to defer payments of interest on the subordinated debentures for more than twenty consecutive quarterly periods. If we are unable to make payments on our junior subordinated debentures for more than twenty consecutive quarters, we would be in default under the governing agreements for such securities and the amounts due under such agreements would be immediately due and payable. Our inability to receive approval from the Federal Reserve Bank to make distributions of interest, principal or other sums on our trust preferred securities and subordinated debentures could result in a default under those obligations if we need to defer such payments for longer than twenty consecutive quarterly periods. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 