Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this report, before investing in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. We may be unable to achieve our expansion plans for future growth. We have grown rapidly primarily through opening new stores, growing from 67 stores at the beginning of fiscal year 1997 to 688 stores at February 2, 2008. We plan to increase our store base by opening 85 new Hibbett Sports stores while closing 10 stores in Fiscal 2009. Our continued growth depends, in large part, upon our ability to open new stores in a timely manner and to operate them profitably. Additionally, successful expansion is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. In order to open and operate new stores successfully, we must: · identify and secure suitable store sites on a timely basis; · negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; · complete any necessary construction or refurbishment of these sites as well as furnish and equip the new stores timely; · hire, train and retain competent store personnel; · identify and source sufficient inventories to meet the needs of the new stores and the preferences of the consumers in that market; and · successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations. In addition, our expansion strategy may be subject to rising real estate and construction costs that could inhibit our ability to sustain our rate of growth. We may also face new competitive, distribution and merchandising challenges different from those we currently face. We cannot give any assurances that we will be able to continue our expansion plans successfully; that we will be able to achieve results similar to those achieved with prior locations; or that we will be able to continue to manage our growth effectively. Our failure to achieve our expansion plans could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operating margins may be impacted in periods in which incremental expenses are incurred as a result of new store openings. Our stores are concentrated within the Sunbelt, Mid-Atlantic and lower Midwest portions of the United States, which could subject us to regional risks. Because our stores are located primarily in a concentrated area of the United States, we are subject to regional risks, such as the regional economy, weather conditions and natural disasters such as floods, droughts, tornadoes and hurricanes, increasing costs of electricity, oil and natural gas as well as government regulations specific in the states and localities within which we operate. We sell a significant amount of team sports merchandise which can be adversely affected by significant weather events that postpone the start of or shorten sports seasons or that limit participation of fans and sports enthusiasts. A downturn in the economy could affect consumer purchases of discretionary items, which could reduce our sales. In general, our sales represent discretionary spending by our customers. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including: · interest rates and inflation; · the impact of an economic recession; · the impact of natural disasters; · the availability of consumer credit; · consumer debt levels and reduced levels of consumer disposable income; · changes in tax rates and tax policies; · unemployment trends; and · consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Increasing volatility in financial markets could cause a greater frequency or higher magnitude of change in many of the factors listed. Our customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including products that we sell, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower or periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs, our revenues and profitability could decline. In addition, our sales could be adversely affected by a downturn in the economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. 9 We may be subject to periodic litigation, including the Fair Labor Standards Act lawsuits, which may adversely affect the Company’s business and financial performance. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits, including class action lawsuits brought against us for alleged violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. We may incur losses relating to these claims and, in addition, these proceedings could cause us to incur costs and may require us to devote resources to defend against these claims which could adversely affect our results of operations. For a description of current legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Our inability to identify, and anticipate changes in consumer demands and preferences and our inability to respond to such consumer demands in a timely manner could reduce our sales. Our products appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. Our success depends on our ability to identify product trends as well as to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to offer assortments of products that appeal to our customers or that we will satisfy changing consumer demands in the future. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if: · we are unable to identify and respond to emerging trends, including shifts in the popularity of certain products; · we miscalculate either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers’ purchasing habits; or · consumer demand unexpectedly shifts away from athletic footwear or our more profitable apparel lines. In addition, we may be faced with significant excess inventory of some products and missed opportunities for other products, which could decrease our profitability. If we lose any of our key vendors or any of our key vendors fail to supply us with merchandise, we may not be able to meet the demand of our customers and our sales could decline. Our business is dependent to a significant degree upon close relationships with vendors and our ability to purchase brand name merchandise at competitive prices. In addition, many of our vendors provide us with incentives, such as return privileges, volume purchasing allowances and cooperative advertising. The loss of key vendor support or decline or discontinuation of vendor incentives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire such merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. In this regard, certain merchandise that is in high demand may be allocated by vendors based upon the vendors’ internal criterion which is beyond our control. In addition, we believe many of our largest vendors source a substantial majority of their products from China and other foreign countries. Imported goods are generally less expensive than domestic goods and indirectly contribute significantly to our favorable profit margins. A disruption in the flow of imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those goods may significantly decrease our sales and profits. We may experience a disruption or increase in the cost of imported vendor products at any time for reasons that may not be in our control. If imported merchandise becomes more expensive or unavailable, the transition to alternative sources by our vendors may not occur in time to meet our demands or the demands of our customers. Products from alternative sources may also be more expensive than those our vendors currently import. Risks associated with reliance on imported goods include: · disruptions in the flow of imported goods because of factors such as: · raw material shortages, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest; · problems with oceanic shipping; · economic crises and international disputes; and · increases in the cost of purchasing or shipping foreign merchandise resulting from: · foreign government regulations; · changes in currency exchange rates and local economic conditions; and · trade restrictions, including import duties, import quotas or loss of “most favored nation” status with the United States. In addition, to the extent that any foreign manufacturer from whom our vendors are associated may directly or indirectly utilize labor practices that are not commonly accepted in the United States, we could be affected by any resulting negative publicity. Our sales and profitability could decline if vendors are unable to promptly replace sources providing equally appealing products at a similar cost. 10 Problems with our information system software could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on the successful integration and operation of our information systems. In particular, we rely on our information systems to manage effectively our sales, distribution, merchandise planning and replenishment, to process financial information and sales transactions and to optimize our overall inventory levels. Most of our information systems are centrally located at our headquarters, with offsite backup at other locations. Our systems, if not functioning properly, could disrupt our ability to track, record and analyze sales and inventory movement and could cause disruptions of operations, including, among other things, our ability to process and ship inventory, process financial information including credit card transactions, process payrolls or vendor payments or engage in other similar normal business activities. Any material disruption, malfunction or other similar problems in or with our information systems could negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. Pressure from our competitors may force us to reduce our prices or increase our spending, which would lower our revenue and profitability. The business in which we are engaged is highly competitive. The marketplace for sporting goods remains highly fragmented as many different retailers compete for market share by utilizing a variety of store formats and merchandising strategies. We compete with national chains that focus on athletic footwear, local sporting goods stores, department and discount stores, traditional shoe stores and mass merchandisers and, on a limited basis, national sporting goods stores. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors employ price discounting policies that, if intensified, may make it difficult for us to reach our sales goals without reducing our prices. As a result of this competition, we may also need to spend more on advertising and promotion than we anticipate. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Expansion into markets served by our competitors, entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could be detrimental to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have historically experienced and expect to continue to experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales, operating income and net income. Our net sales, operating income and net income are typically higher in the spring, back-to-school and Christmas holiday seasons. An economic downturn during these periods could adversely affect us to a greater extent than if a downturn occurred at other times of the year. Our highest sales and operating income historically occur during the fourth fiscal quarter, due mostly to the holiday selling season. Any decrease in our fourth quarter sales, whether because of a slow holiday selling season, unseasonable weather conditions, slowing economic conditions, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results for the entire fiscal year. Our quarterly operating results, including comparable store sales, will fluctuate and may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance and such fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our net sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and vary from quarter to quarter. A number of factors, many outside our control, can cause variations in our quarterly results, including: · changes in product demand that we offer in our stores; · retirement or demise of sports superstars key to certain product promotion; · strikes or lockouts involving professional sports teams; · costs related to the closures of existing stores; · changes in our merchandise assortment; · population trends and changes in the business environment. Changes in our comparable store sales results could affect the price of our common stock. Factors which have historically affected, and will continue to affect our comparable store sales results, include: · shifts in consumer tastes and fashion trends; · calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; · the timing of new store openings and the relative proportion of new stores to mature stores; · the level of pre-operating expenses associated with new stores; · the amount and timing of net sales contributed by new stores; · changes in the other tenants in the shopping centers in which we are located; · pricing, promotion or other actions taken by our competitors or the addition of new competitors within our markets; · the timing and type of promotional events; and · unseasonable weather conditions or natural disasters. 11 We cannot assure you that comparable store sales will trend at the rates achieved in prior periods or that rates will not decline. Comparable store sales vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or comparable store sales may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile as the stock market in general is and has been highly volatile. Factors that could cause fluctuation in our common stock price may include, among other things: · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by security analysts; · our inability to meet or exceed securities analysts’ estimates or expectations; · market reaction to conditions or trends within our industry or to changes in the market valuations of other retail companies; · additions or departures of key personnel; · market rumors or announcements by us or by our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures, strategic partnerships or other strategic initiatives; · announcements by us of large capital commitments; and · sales of our common stock by key personnel or large institutional holders. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our operating performance. We would be materially and adversely affected if our single distribution center were shut down. We currently operate a single centralized distribution center in Birmingham, Alabama. We receive and ship substantially all of our merchandise at our distribution center. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to this facility due to fire, tornado or any other cause would damage a portion of our inventory and could impair our ability to adequately stock our stores and process returns of products to vendors and could adversely affect our sales and profitability. In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace the center. We depend on key personnel. We have benefited from the leadership and performance of our senior management, especially Michael J. Newsome, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. If we lose the services of any of our principal executive officers, including Mr. Newsome we may not be able to run our business effectively and operating results could suffer. In particular, Mr. Newsome has been instrumental in directing our business strategy within our target markets in the Sunbelt, Mid-Atlantic and the lower Midwest and maintaining long-term relationships with our key vendors. Our overall success and the success of our expansion strategy will depend on our ability to retain our current management, including Mr. Newsome, and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. As we continue to grow, we will continue to hire, appoint or otherwise change senior managers and other key executives. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. The loss of services of Mr. Newsome for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the loss of certain other principal executive officers could affect our ability to run our business effectively and our ability to successfully expand our operations. On March 9, 2005, we entered into a Retention Agreement (the Agreement) with Mr. Newsome. The purpose of the Agreement is to secure the continued employment of Mr. Newsome as an advisor to us following his future retirement from the duties of Chief Executive Officer of our Company. Such retirement is not currently planned. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might deter acquisition bids for us. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects and may discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider in its best interest. These provisions, among other things: · classify our Board of Directors into three classes, each of which serves for different three year periods; · provide that a director may be removed by stockholders only for cause by a vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of our shares entitled to vote; · provide that all vacancies on our Board of Directors, including any vacancies resulting from an increase in the number of directors, may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, even if the number is less than a quorum; · provide that special meetings of the stockholders may only be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, a majority of the Board of Directors or upon the demand of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at any such special meeting; and · call for a vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote in order to amend the foregoing provisions and certain other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. 12 In addition, our Board of Directors, without further action of the stockholders, is permitted to issue and fix the terms of preferred stock which may have rights senior to those of common stock. We are also subject to the Delaware business combination statute, which may render a change in control of us more difficult. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Laws would be expected to have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the Board of Directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares of Common Stock held by stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 