ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT OUR FUTURE RESULTS RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY We continue to require external financing to fund our operations, which may not be available. We expect our current cash reserves to provide us with sufficient cash to fund our operations into the second half of 2011. While our newly acquired subsidiary, Bio-Quant, is projected to be cash flow positive in 2010, we do not believe that Bio-Quant will generate sufficient cash to fund the development of our current products under development and the annual costs to remain a public company, including legal, audit and listing fees. We intend to seek development partners to advance our products under development because we will also need significant funding to pursue our overall product development plans. In general, products we plan to develop will require significant time-consuming and costly research and development, clinical testing, regulatory approval and significant investment prior to their commercialization. Even if we are successful in obtaining partners who can assume the funding for further development of our products, we may still encounter additional obstacles such as research and development activities may not be successful, our products may not prove to be safe and effective, clinical development work may not be completed in a timely manner or at all, and the anticipated products may not be commercially viable or successfully marketed. During 2010 we intend to focus on generating more positive cash flow by expanding the CRO business through organic growth within Bio-Quant’s current business operations and through acquiring small cash flow positive entities who have complimentary capabilities to those of Bio-Quant but are not operating at full capacity due to insufficient business development efforts. There is no assurance that we can expand Bio-Quant’s current business operations or successfully identify and acquire small cash flow positive entities as described above. Should we not be able to find development partners or successfully increase Bio-Quant’s positive cash flow, we would require external financing to fund our operations. Additionally, we have substantial notes payable issued in connection with the acquisition of Bio-Quant due within 12 months as discussed in Notes 3 and 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which if not converted to common stock, would significantly impact liquidity when due in December 2010. Our current cash reserves of approximately $3.25 million as of the date of this report, should provide us with sufficient cash to fund our operations into the second half of 2011 assuming we convert upon shareholder approval or extend the maturity date of significant amounts due in 2010 and 2011 under notes payable. This projection is based on the monthly operating expenses of maintaining our public listing together with Bio-Quant’s business growing at an assumed rate of 11% over 2009 levels with no additional acquisitions in 2010. 10 We will continue to incur operating losses. We may encounter delays, uncertainties and complications typically encountered by businesses with future revenues tied to products under development. We have not marketed or generated sales revenues in the U.S. from our products under development. We are not profitable and have incurred an accumulated deficit of $171,731,862 since our inception through December 31, 2009. Our ability to generate revenues and to achieve profitability and positive cash flow will depend on the successful licensing or commercialization of our products currently under development and the ability to grow Bio-Quant’s pre-clinical service business to a level sufficient to generate sufficient operating income to cover the costs of our operations, including maintaining our public listing. Our ability to become profitable will depend, among other things, on our (1) development of our proposed products, (2) obtaining of regulatory approvals of our proposed products on a timely basis, (3) success in licensing, manufacturing, distributing and marketing our proposed products and (4) increasing the profitability of Bio-Quant through acquisitions and organic growth of its current operations. Our independent registered public accounting firm has doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of our losses to date, expected losses in the future, limited capital resources and accumulated deficit, our independent registered public accounting firm has concluded that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, and accordingly, our independent registered public accounting firm has modified their report on our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K in the form of an explanatory paragraph describing the events that have given rise to this uncertainty. These factors may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional funding to meet our obligations. Our continuation is dependent upon our ability to generate or obtain sufficient cash to meet our obligations on a timely basis and ultimately to attain profitable operations. We anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses at least until successful commercialization of one or more of our products, and we may never operate profitably in the future. If we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully operate our business. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel and on its ability to develop and maintain important relationships with healthcare providers, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff, particularly Bassam Damaj, Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer. Although we have employment agreements with most of our executives, these agreements are generally terminable at will at any time, and, therefore, we may not be able to retain their services as expected. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management and scientific staff could delay or prevent us from obtaining new clients and successfully operating our business. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals field is intense, particularly in the San Diego, California area, where our offices are located. We may need to hire additional personnel as we expand our commercial activities. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. Our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our clients and to get business from new clients, particularly in the drug development sector, also depends on our ability to subcontract and retain scientific staff with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug development technologies. We will need partnering agreements and significant funding to continue with our research and development efforts, and they may not be available. We expect our current cash reserves to provide us with sufficient cash to fund our operations into the second half of 2011. We will need additional sources of cash to fund the development and eventual marketing and sales of our products under development. We intend to seek development partners to advance our products under development because we will also need significant funding to pursue our overall product development plans. In general, products we plan to develop will require significant time-consuming and costly research and development, clinical testing, regulatory approval and significant investment prior to their commercialization. 11 Our research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $1,883,458, $5,410,513 and $5,022,671, respectively. Through December 31, 2009, we have spent $98,786,673 on research and development. Given our current level of cash reserves and current revenue level of our subsidiary, Bio-Quant, we will not be able to fully advance our products under development unless we enter into additional partnering agreements and /or significantly grow Bio-Quant’s CRO business. If we are successful in entering into additional partnering agreements for our products under development, we may receive milestone payments, which will offset some of our research and development expenses. We currently have no sales force or marketing organization and will need, but may not be able, to attract marketing partners or afford qualified or experienced marketing and sales personnel for our products under development. In order to market our proprietary products under development, we will need to attract additional marketing partner(s) that will need to spend significant funds to inform potential customers, including third-party distributors, of the distinctive characteristics and benefits of our products. Our operating results and long term success will depend, among other things, on our ability to establish (1) successful arrangements with domestic and additional international distributors and marketing partners and (2) an effective internal marketing organization. Consummation of partnering arrangements is subject to the negotiation of complex contractual relationships, and we may not be able to negotiate such agreements on a timely basis, if at all, or on terms acceptable to us. Pre-clinical and clinical trials are inherently unpredictable. If we or our partners do not successfully conduct these trials, we or our partners may be unable to market our products. Through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, our products must be demonstrated to be safe and effective for their indicated uses. Results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of, or allow for prediction of results in later-stage testing. Future clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our products or may not result in regulatory approval to market our products. Commercial sales in the United States of our products cannot begin until final FDA approval is received. The failure of the FDA to approve our products for commercial sales will have a material adverse effect on our prospects. Patents and intellectual property rights are important to us but could be challenged. Proprietary protection for our pharmaceutical products and products under development is of material importance to our business in the U.S. and most other countries. We have sought and will continue to seek proprietary protection for our products to attempt to prevent others from commercializing equivalent products in substantially less time and at substantially lower expense. Our success may depend on our ability to (1) obtain effective patent protection within the U.S. and internationally for our proprietary technologies and products, (2) defend patents we own, (3) preserve our trade secrets, and (4) operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify our partners for certain liabilities with respect to the defense, protection and/or validity of our patents and would also be required to incur costs or forego revenue if it is necessary for our partners to acquire third party patent licenses in order for them to exercise the licenses acquired from us. We currently hold ten U.S. patents out of a series of patent applications that we have filed in connection with our NexACT® technology and our NexACT®-based products under development. To further strengthen our global patent position on our proprietary products under development, and to expand the patent protection to other markets, we have filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty corresponding international applications for our issued U.S. patents and pending U.S. patent applications. We previously held two patents covering the first generation of the NexACT® technology enhancer, which expired in 2008 and 2009. While we believe there are significant disadvantages to using the permeation enhancers covered by these expired patents, third parties may nevertheless develop competitive products using the enhancer technology now that it is no longer patent protected.. While we have obtained patents and have several patent applications pending, the extent of effective patent protection in the U.S. and other countries is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy addresses the breadth of claims allowed in or the degree of protection afforded under patents of medical and pharmaceutical companies. Patents we currently own or may obtain might not be sufficiently broad enough to protect us against competitors with similar technology. Any of our patents could be invalidated or circumvented. 12 While we believe that our patents would prevail in any potential litigation, the holders of competing patents could determine to commence a lawsuit against us and even prevail in any such lawsuit. Litigation could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, which may harm our business. In addition, our efforts to protect or defend our proprietary rights may not be successful or, even if successful, may result in substantial cost to us. Additionally, in February 2009, we sold two patents to Warner and are obligated to indemnify Warner against challenges to those patents, which could result in additional costs to us. We and our licensees depend upon third party manufacturers for chemical manufacturing supplies. We and our licensees are dependent on third party chemical manufacturers for the active drugs in our NexACT®-based products under development, and for the supply of our NexACT® enhancers that are essential in the formulation and production of our topical products on a timely basis and at satisfactory quality levels. If our validated third party chemical manufacturers fail to produce quality products on time and in sufficient quantities, our results would suffer, as we or our licensees would encounter costs and delays in revalidating new third party suppliers. We face severe competition. We are engaged in a highly competitive industry. We and our licensees can expect competition from numerous companies, including large international enterprises, and others entering the market for products similar to ours. Most of these companies have greater research and development, manufacturing, marketing, financial, technological, personnel and managerial resources. Acquisitions of competing companies by large pharmaceutical or healthcare companies could further enhance such competitors' financial, marketing and other resources. Competitors may complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and commence commercial sales of their products before we could enjoy a significant competitive advantage. Products developed by our competitors may be more effective than our products. The Bio-Quant CRO business primarily competes against in-house departments of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies, academic institutions and other contract research organizations. Competitors in Bio-Quant’s industry range from small, limited-service providers to full service, global contract research organizations. Many of Bio-Quant’s competitors have an established global presence, including Quintiles Transnational Corp., Covance, Inc., Parexel International Corporation, Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc., Icon Clinical Research, and Kendle International, Inc. In addition, many of Bio-Quant’s competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than Bio-Quant does and offer a broader range of services in more geographical areas than Bio-Quant does. Significant factors in determining whether Bio-Quant will be able to compete successfully include: its consultative capabilities; its reputation for on-time quality performance; its expertise and experience in specific drug discovery, research and development areas; the scope of its service offerings; its strength in various geographic markets; the price of its services; and its size. If Bio-Quant’s services are not competitive based on these or other factors and Bio-Quant is unable to develop an adequate level of new business, its business, backlog position, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, Bio-Quant may compete for fewer clients arising out of consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry and the growing tendency of drug companies to outsource to a smaller number of preferred contract research organizations that have far greater resources and capabilities. Bio-Quant’s services may from time to time experience periods of increased price competition that could have a material adverse effect on its profitability and revenues. Additionally, the CRO industry is not highly capital-intensive, and the financial costs of entry into the industry are relatively low. Therefore, as a general matter, the industry has few barriers to entry. Newer, smaller entities with specialty focuses, such as those aligned to a specific disease or therapeutic area, may compete aggressively against Bio-Quant for clients. 13 We may be subject to potential product liability and other claims, creating risks and expense. We are also exposed to potential product liability risks inherent in the development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human therapeutic products. Product liability insurance for the pharmaceutical industry is extremely expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We currently have liability insurance to cover claims related to our products that may arise from clinical trials, with coverage of $1 million for any one claim and coverage of $3 million in total, but we do not maintain product liability insurance for marketed products as our products have yet to be approved for commercialization. We may need to acquire such insurance coverage prior to the commercial introduction of our products. If we obtain such coverage, we have no guarantee that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate. A successful claim against us if we are uninsured, or which is in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, could have a material adverse effect upon us and on our financial condition. INDUSTRY RISKS We are vulnerable to volatile market conditions. The market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, have been highly volatile. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, future announcements, such as the results of testing and clinical trials, the status of our relationships with third-party collaborators, technological innovations or new therapeutic products, governmental regulation, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, litigation or public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others and general market conditions, concerning us, our competitors or other biopharmaceutical companies, may have a significant effect on the market price of our Common Stock. Instability and volatility in the financial markets and the global economic recession are likely to have a negative impact on our ability to raise necessary funds and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. During recent months, there has been substantial volatility and a decline in financial markets due at least in part to the deteriorating global economic environment. In addition, there has been substantial uncertainty in the capital markets and access to financing is uncertain. These conditions are likely to have an adverse effect on our industry, licensing partners, and business, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to incur indebtedness, if available, to finance plans for growth or to continue our current operations. However, recent turmoil in the credit markets and the potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through borrowings, under either existing or newly created instruments in the public or private markets on terms that we believe to be reasonable, if at all. Changes in trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including difficult market conditions, could adversely affect our operating results. Industry trends and economic and political factors that affect pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies also affect our business. For example, the practice of many companies in these industries has been to hire companies like us to conduct discovery, research and development activities. If these companies suspend these activities or otherwise reduce their expenditures on outsourced discovery, research and development in light of current difficult conditions in credit markets and the economy in general, or for any other reason, our operations, financial condition and growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. In the past, mergers, product withdrawal and liability lawsuits, and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry have also slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug development projects. Continuation or increases in these trends could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies. If future cost-containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived on new drugs, our clients might reduce their drug discovery and development spending, which could reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device industries generally and drug discovery and development more specifically are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. Our competitors, clients and others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to our technologies, services or products to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. 14 We and our licensees are subject to numerous and complex government regulations which could result in delay and expense. Governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries heavily regulate the testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution, advertising and marketing of our proposed products. None of our proprietary products under development has been approved for marketing in the U.S. Before any products we develop are marketed, FDA and comparable foreign agency approval must be obtained through an extensive clinical study and approval process. The studies involved in the approval process are conducted in three phases. In Phase 1 studies, researchers assess safety or the most common acute adverse effects of a drug and examine the size of doses that patients can take safely without a high incidence of side effects. Generally, 20 to 100 healthy volunteers or patients are studied in the Phase 1 study for a period of several months. In Phase 2 studies, researchers determine the drug's efficacy with short-term safety by administering the drug to subjects who have the condition the drug is intended to treat, assess whether the drug favorably affects the condition, and begin to identify the correct dosage level. Up to several hundred subjects may be studied in the Phase 2 study for approximately 6 to 12 months, depending on the type of product tested. In Phase 3 studies, researchers further assess efficacy and safety of the drug. Several hundred to thousands of patients may be studied during the Phase 3 studies for a period from 12 months to several years. Upon completion of Phase 3 studies, a New Drug Application is submitted to the FDA or foreign governmental regulatory authority for review and approval. The failure to obtain requisite governmental approvals for our products under development in a timely manner or at all would delay or preclude us and our licensees from marketing our products or limit the commercial use of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of on-going research, discovery and development activities or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. As a result of any such failure, we could be contractually required to perform repeat services at no further cost to our clients, but at a substantial cost to us. The issuance of a notice from regulatory authorities based upon a finding of a material violation by us of applicable requirements could result in contractual liability to our clients and/or the termination of ongoing studies which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, our reputation and prospects for future work could be materially and adversely diminished. Because we intend that our products will be sold and marketed outside the U.S., we and/or our licensees will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursements. These requirements vary widely from country to country. The failure to meet each foreign country's requirements could delay the introduction of our proposed products in the respective foreign country and limit our revenues from sales of our proposed products in foreign markets. Successful commercialization of our products may depend on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party healthcare payers, such as government and private insurance plans. Even if one or more products is successfully brought to market, reimbursement to consumers may not be available or sufficient to allow the realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development or to sell our products on a competitive basis. In addition, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental controls. In the U.S., federal and state agencies have proposed similar governmental control and the U.S. Congress has recently considered legislative and regulatory reforms that may affect companies engaged in the healthcare industry. Pricing constraints on our products in foreign markets and possibly in the U.S. could adversely affect our business and limit our revenues. 15 RISKS RELATED TO OWNING OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock may be delisted from Nasdaq, which may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. Currently, our Common Stock trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market. On January 26, 2010, we received an expected notice of non-compliance (the “Notice”) from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC based upon the bid price of the Company’s common stock closing at less than $1.00 per share in violation of NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), which could serve as an additional basis for the delisting of the Company’s securities from The NASDAQ Capital Market. We responded to the Notice on January 27, 2010, requesting additional time to regain compliance with the bid price listing requirement. Our January 27, 2010 response also sought an exemption, through May 24, 2010, from compliance with another existing deficiency (failure to comply with the annual shareholder meeting and proxy solicitation requirements) to allow the Company to execute its plans to regain compliance. At an appeals hearing held in November 2009 at our request, following a series of communications between us and NASDAQ regarding various deficiencies, including those described above and our failure to satisfy the minimum $2.5 million in stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing as of August 2009, we presented to NASDAQ our plan to regain compliance with the applicable listing requirements. On February 1, 2010, we received the Hearing Panel’s determination (the “Determination Letter”). The Determination Letter confirmed that NASDAQ would continue the listing of the Company’s securities on The NASDAQ Stock Market provided that the Company shall have (1) solicited proxies and held its annual meeting on or before May 24, 2010 and (2) evidenced compliance with the minimum bid price requirement and all other requirements for The NASDAQ Stock Market on or before July 15, 2010. If the Company is not able to demonstrate compliance with all requirements for continued listing on or before July 15, 2010, its securities may be delisted. During this exemption period, the Company must provide prompt notice to NASDAQ of any significant events that occur, including, but not limited to, any event that may call into question the Company’s historical financial information or that may impact the Company’s ability to maintain compliance with any NASDAQ listing requirement or exemption deadline. If we fail to achieve the minimum bid price requirement of the Nasdaq Capital Market by July 15, 2010 or fail to maintain compliance with any other listing requirements during this period (including a failure to comply with the annual shareholder meeting and proxy solicitation requirements on or before May 24, 2010), we may be delisted and our stock would be considered a penny stock under regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and would therefore be subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our Common Stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the Common Stock and your ability to sell our securities in the secondary market. In addition, if we fail to maintain our listing on Nasdaq or any other United States securities exchange, quotation system, market or over-the-counter bulletin board, we will be subject to cash penalties under investor rights agreements to which we are a party until a listing is obtained. We do not expect to pay dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Although our shareholders may receive dividends if, as and when declared by our board of directors, we do not intend to declare dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not purchase our Common Stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock that could dilute the value of your shares of Common Stock. We are authorized to issue 280,000,000 shares of our capital stock, consisting of 270,000,000 shares of our Common Stock and 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock of which 1,000,000 are designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, 800 are designated as Series B 8% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and 600 are designated as Series C 6% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. As of March 26, 2010, 126,902,281 shares of our Common Stock were issued and outstanding and 6,364,102 shares of our Common Stock were issuable upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding options and warrants. As of March 26, 2010, there were no shares of Series A, Series B or Series C Preferred Stock outstanding. In light of our possible future need for additional financing, we may issue authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock at below current market prices or additional convertible securities that could dilute the earnings per share and book value of your shares of our Common Stock. Additionally, we have substantial notes payable issued in connection with the acquisition of Bio-Quant due within 12 months as discussed in Notes 3 and 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These notes can, with approval of our shareholders, be repaid with the issuance of Common Stock. As of the date of this report, we would need to issue approximately 60 million shares, at a predetermined price of $0.168 per share to repay such notes payable in full. 16 In addition to provisions providing for proportionate adjustments in the event of stock splits, stock dividends, reverse stock splits and similar events, certain outstanding warrants and convertible instruments provide (with certain exceptions) for an adjustment of the exercise or conversion price if we issue shares of Common Stock at prices lower than the then exercise or conversion price or the then prevailing market price. This means that if we need to raise equity financing at a time when the market price for our Common Stock is lower than the exercise or conversion price, or if we need to provide a new equity investor with a discount from the then prevailing market price, then the exercise price will be reduced and the dilution to shareholders increased. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 