Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The following summarizes significant risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The proposed spin-off of MPC is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, which may not be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated or may not achieve the intended results. We expect that the spin-off will be effective June 30, 2011. Our ability to timely effect the spin-off is subject to several conditions, including among others, the receipt of a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS, an independent tax opinion that the distribution of one share of MPC common stock for every two shares of Marathon will qualify as tax-free and the SEC declaring effective the registration statement. We cannot assure that we will be able to complete the spin-off in a timely fashion, if at all. For these and other reasons, the spin-off may not be completed on the terms or timeline contemplated. Further, if the spin-off is completed, it may not achieve the intended results. Any such difficulties could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The spin-off could result in substantial tax liability. We have requested a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify under Sections 355 and/or 368 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). If the factual assumptions or representations made in the request for the private letter ruling prove to have been inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the IRS does not rule on whether a distribution such as the spin-off satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the Code. The private letter ruling will be based on representations by us that those requirements were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. In connection with the spin-off, we also intend to obtain an opinion of outside counsel, substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify under Sections 355 and 368 of the Code. The opinion will rely on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. The opinion will not be binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts would not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. A substantial or extended decline in liquid hydrocarbon or natural gas prices, or in refining and wholesale marketing gross margins, would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets. Prices for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas and refining and wholesale marketing gross margins fluctuate widely. Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas and the margins we realize on our refined products. Historically, the markets for liquid hydrocarbons, natural gas and refined products have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. Many of the factors influencing prices of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas and refining and wholesale marketing gross margins are beyond our control. These factors include: • worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for liquid hydrocarbons, natural gas and refined products; • the cost of exploring for, developing and producing liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas; • the cost of crude oil to be manufactured into refined products; • utilization rates of refineries; 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to agree to and maintain production controls; • political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; • changes in weather patterns and climate; • natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornados; • the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and • general economic conditions worldwide. The long-term effects of these and other factors on the prices of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas, as well as on refining and wholesale marketing gross margins, are uncertain. Lower liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices, may cause us to reduce the amount of these commodities that we produce, which may reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flows. Significant reductions in liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices or refining and wholesale marketing gross margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures or impair the carrying value of our assets. Our offshore operations involve special risks that could negatively impact us. Offshore exploration and development operations present technological challenges and operating risks because of the marine environment. Activities in deepwater areas may pose incrementally greater risks because of water depths that limit intervention capability and the physical distance to oilfield service infrastructure and service providers. Environmental remediation and other costs resulting from spills or releases may result in substantial liabilities and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and market value of our securities. Estimates of liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and synthetic crude oil reserves depend on many factors and assumptions, including various assumptions that are based on conditions in existence as of the dates of the estimates. Any material changes in those conditions or other factors affecting those assumptions could impair the quantity and value of our liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and synthetic crude oil reserves. The proved reserve information included in this report has been derived from engineering estimates. Estimates of liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas reserves were prepared by our in-house teams of reservoir engineers and geoscience professionals and were reviewed, on a selected basis, by our Corporate Reserves Group or third-party consultants. The synthetic crude oil reserves estimates were prepared by GLJ Petroleum Consultants, a third-party consulting firm experienced in working with oil sands. Reserves were priced at the unweighted average of closing prices for the first day of each month in the 12-month period ended December 31, 2010, as well as other conditions in existence at the date. Any significant future price changes will have a material effect on the quantity and present value of our proved reserves. Future reserve revisions could also result from changes in governmental regulation, among other things. Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of liquid hydrocarbons, natural gas and bitumen that cannot be directly measured. (Bitumen is mined then upgraded into synthetic crude oil.) Estimates of economically producible reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including: • location, size and shape of the accumulation as well as fluid, rock and producing characteristics of the accumulation; • historical production from the area, compared with production from other comparable producing areas; • volumes of bitumen in-place and various factors affecting the recoverability of bitumen and its conversion into synthetic crude oil such as historical upgrader performance; • the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies; • assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and repair costs, and • industry economic conditions, levels of cash flows from operations and other operating considerations. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry-accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may produce different estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data. Because of the subjective nature of such reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other factors estimated: • the amount and timing of production; • the revenues and costs associated with that production; and • the amount and timing of future development expenditures. The discounted future net revenues from our proved liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and synthetic crude oil reserves reflected in this report should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. As required by SEC Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X, the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and synthetic crude oil reserves are based on an unweighted average of closing prices for the first day of each month in the 12-month period ended December 31, 2009, and costs applicable at the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor required by the applicable rules of the SEC to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on our cost of capital and the risks associated with our business and the oil and natural gas industry in general. If we are unsuccessful in acquiring or finding additional reserves, our future liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production would decline, thereby reducing our cash flows and results of operations and impairing our financial condition. The rate of production from liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent we acquire interests in additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, optimize production performance, identify additional reservoirs not currently producing or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline materially as liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas are produced. Accordingly, to the extent we are not successful in replacing the liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas we produce, our future revenues will decline. Creating and maintaining an inventory of prospects for future production depends on many factors, including: • obtaining rights to explore for, develop and produce liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas in promising areas; • drilling success; • the ability to complete long lead-time, capital-intensive projects timely and on budget; • the ability to find or acquire additional proved reserves at acceptable costs; and • the ability to fund such activity. The availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce our refining, marketing and transportation profitability and refining and wholesale marketing gross margins. The profitability of our refining, marketing and transportation operations depends largely on the margin between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks that we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. We are a net purchaser of crude oil. A significant portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, producing companies and trading companies, including suppliers from the Middle East. These purchases are subject to political, geographic and economic risks and possible terrorist activities attendant to doing business with suppliers located in that area of the world. Our overall refining, marketing and transportation profitability could be adversely affected by the availability of supply and rising crude oil and other feedstock prices which we do not recover in the marketplace. Refining and wholesale marketing gross margins historically have been volatile and vary with the level of economic activity in the various marketing areas, the regulatory climate, logistical capabilities and the available supply of refined products. Restrictions on U.S. Gulf of Mexico deepwater operations and similar action by countries where we do business could have a significant impact on our operations. Although the deepwater drilling moratorium imposed by the U.S. Department of the Interior suspending outer continental shelf subsea and floating facility operations was lifted on October 12, 2010, we cannot predict when necessary plans and permits will be approved for renewed offshore drilling activity other than completions, interventions and workovers. An extended regulatory delay on other deepwater drilling activities in the Gulf of Mexico or changes in laws or 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements regulations affecting our operations in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and market value of our securities. In addition, other countries where we do business may make changes to their laws or regulations governing offshore operations, including deepwater areas that could have a similar material adverse effect. We may incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of compliance with, and changes in environmental health, safety and security laws and regulations, and, as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. Our businesses are subject to numerous laws, regulations and other requirements relating to the protection of the environment, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, as well as laws and regulations relating to public and employee safety and health and to facility security. We have incurred and may continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our operating results will be adversely affected. The specific impact of these laws and regulations may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources, and production processes. We may also be required to make material expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We may become subject to liabilities that we currently do not anticipate in connection with new, amended or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of contamination. In addition, any failure by us to comply with existing or future laws or regulations could result in civil penalties or criminal fines and other enforcement actions against us. We believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent, causes of and responsibility for climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation in countries where we operate: the United States, Canada, European Union (“EU”) and Norway. Our operations result in these greenhouse gas emissions and emissions also arise from the use of our refined petroleum products by our customers. Through 2010, these included proposed federal legislation and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs, each of which could impose reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. These actions could result in increased: (1) costs to operate and maintain our facilities, (2) capital expenditures to install new emission controls at our refineries and other facilities, and (3) costs to administer and manage any potential greenhouse gas emissions or carbon trading or tax programs or to produce fuels to meet low-carbon fuel standards. These costs and capital expenditures could be material. Although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs, reduce the demand for the products we sell, reduce the supply of crude oils which can be used and create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities. Legislation or regulatory activity that impacts or could impact our operations includes: • EPA issued a finding that greenhouse gases contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. In April of 2010, the EPA finalized a greenhouse gas emission standard for mobile sources (cars and light duty vehicles). The endangerment finding, along with the mobile source standard, and EPA’s determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the CAA, will lead to widespread regulation of stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions. As a result, the EPA has issued a so-called tailoring rule to limit the applicability of the EPA’s major permitting programs to larger sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as our refineries and a few large production facilities. Although legal challenges have been filed against these EPA actions, no court decisions are expected for another year or more and the EPA permitting requirements will apply to our larger facilities starting in January 2011. EPA has also announced its plan to develop refining sector new source performance standards for greenhouse gas emissions with standards to be proposed in December 2011 and final standards to be adopted in December 2012. • In the U.S., the House of Representatives and the Senate each had their own form of cap-and-trade legislation to reduce carbon emissions in the Congressional session ending in 2010. The House approved the Waxman-Markey Bill in 2009 and the Senate considered but did not approve any such legislation. Similar legislation may be introduced in 2011 in the new Congressional session or the legislation may seek to limit or delay implementation of the EPA greenhouse gas emission requirements. Among other actions, cap and trade systems require businesses that emit greenhouse gases to buy emission credits from the government, other businesses, or through an auction process. • Although not ratified in the United States, the Kyoto Protocol, effective in 2005, has been ratified by countries in which we have or in the future may have operations. • The non-binding Copenhagen Accord was reached in 2009 with the United States pledging to reduce emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • The Canadian federal government has not enacted greenhouse gas emission reduction legislation although in signing the Copenhagen Accord, reaffirmed its commitment to reduce the country’s emissions 17 percent from 2005 levels by 2020. Alberta enacted legislation effective in 2007 which requires large emission sources such as oil sands facilities to reduce their net emissions intensity by 12 percent as measured against their baseline emissions. Sources may also comply by making a compliance obligation payment or by purchasing verifiable offsets. • The European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (“EU ETS”) is in its second phase which runs from 2008 to 2012, in which EU member governments provide a certain number of free allowances to facilities and a facility may purchase additional EU allowances from other facilities, traders and the government. For, 2010, our EU facilities have complied with the EU ETS by using the allocated free allowances. Norway, as a member of the European Economic Area, while not in the European Union, has a carbon tax and also participates in the EU ETS. For 2010, our Norway facilities complied with the EU ETS by purchasing carbon allowances in the market. • The Canadian federal government and province of Alberta jointly announced their intent to partially fund the AOSP’s Quest Carbon Capture and Storage (“Quest CCS”) project. Under the terms of their letters of intent, Alberta would contribute 745 million Canadian dollars and the Government of Canada would provide 120 million Canadian dollars toward the project’s development. The Quest project would store approximately 1.1 million tons of carbon dioxide annually and should allow the AOSP to meet Canadian and Alberta emission reduction requirements for the foreseeable future. The operator intends to finalize the government funding agreements in the first quarter of 2011. A final investment decision on the Quest CCS project will be made at a later date, and is subject to regulatory approvals, stakeholder engagement, detailed engineering studies, as well as the agreement of joint venture partners. • The State of California enacted legislation effective in 2007 capping California’s greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels by 2020 and is implementing this legislation through a low-carbon fuel standard and a cap-and-trade program. The low-carbon fuel standard is being challenged in court. New Mexico has adopted a regulation which would reduce greenhouse gas emissions from current levels by three percent annually starting in 2012. We have not conducted significant business in California in recent years and discontinued operations in New Mexico in 2009, but other states where we have operations could adopt similar greenhouse gas limitations. Although there may be adverse financial impact (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and potential reduced demand for crude oil or certain refined products) associated with any legislation, regulation, the EPA or other action, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the fact that requirements have only recently been adopted and the present uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented. Private party litigation has also been brought against emitters of greenhouse gas emissions, but we have not been named in those cases. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. Delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and /or permits; • unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; • disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; • adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; • market-related increases in a project’s debt or equity financing costs; and • nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. Any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. If we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Many of our major projects and operations are conducted with partners, which may decrease our ability to manage risk. We often enter into arrangements to conduct certain business operations, such oil and gas exploration and production, oil sands mining or pipeline transportation, with partners in order to share risks associated with those operations. However, these arrangements also may decrease our ability to manage risks and costs, particularly where we are not the operator. We could have limited influence over and control of the behaviors and performance of these operations. This could affect our operational performance, financial position and reputation. Financial market uncertainty could impact our ability to obtain future financing. In the future we may require financing to grow our business. Financial institutions participate in our revolving credit facility and provide us with services including insurance, cash management, commercial letters of credit, derivative instruments, and short-term investments. A deterioration of the financial market conditions could significantly increase our costs associated with borrowing. Our liquidity and our ability to access the credit and/or capital markets could also be adversely affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. Worldwide political and economic developments could damage our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. Local political and economic factors in global markets could have a material adverse effect on us. A total of 67 percent of our liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas sales volumes in 2010 was derived from production outside the United States and 72 percent of our proved liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2010, were located outside the United States. All of our synthetic crude oil production and proved reserves are located in Canada. In addition, a significant portion of the feedstock requirements for our refineries is satisfied through supplies originating in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Canada, Mexico and various other foreign countries. We are, therefore, subject to the political, geographic and economic risks and possible terrorist activities attendant to doing business with suppliers located in, and supplies originating from, those areas. There are many risks associated with operations in countries and in global markets, such as Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia, Libya and the Iraqi Kurdistan Region, including • changes in governmental policies relating to liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas, bitumen, synthetic crude oil or refined product pricing and taxation; • other political, economic or diplomatic developments and international monetary fluctuations; • political and economic instability, war, acts of terrorism and civil disturbances; • the possibility that a government may seize our property with or without compensation, may attempt to renegotiate or revoke existing contractual arrangements or may impose additional taxes or royalty burdens; and • fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages and currency controls. In recent weeks, civil unrest, which began in Tunisia, has spread to other parts of North Africa and the Middle East. There have been demonstrations by protestors demanding regime changes in countries such as Egypt, Libya, Yemen and Bahrain. Some of these demonstrations have been violent particularly in Libya where we have operations. If such unrest continues to spread, conflicts could result in civil wars, regional conflicts, and regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to the United States. These may have the following results, among others: • Volatility in global crude oil prices which could negatively impact the global economy, resulting in slower economic growth rates and reduced demand for our products; • Negative impact on the world crude oil supply if transportation avenues are disrupted; • Security concerns leading to the prolonged evacuation of our personnel; • Damage to, or the inability to access, production facilities or other operating assets; • Inability of our service and equipment providers to deliver items necessary for us to conduct our operations; and • Imposition of trade sanctions by the U.S. government on Libya. Continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the United States and other developed countries. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. These risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for liquid hydrocarbons, natural gas and refined products. In addition, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Actions of governments through tax and other legislation, executive order and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability, both in the United States and abroad. The U.S. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. These restrictions and those of foreign governments have in the past limited our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries and will continue to do so in the future. Our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. We do not insure against all potential losses and therefore we could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. Our exploration and production operations are subject to unplanned occurrences, including blowouts, explosions, fires, loss of well control, spills, hurricanes and other adverse weather, labor disputes and accidents. Our oil sands mining operations are subject to business interruptions due to breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and unplanned events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions or other interruptions. In addition, our refining, marketing and transportation operations are subject to business interruptions due to scheduled refinery turnarounds and unplanned events such as explosions, fires, pipeline ruptures or other interruptions, crude oil or refined product spills, severe weather and labor disputes. These same risks can be applied to the third-parties which transport crude oil and refined products to, from and among facilities. A prolonged disruption in the ability of any pipeline or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products could contribute to a business interruption or increase costs. Our operations are also subject to the additional hazards of pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks, as well as hazards of marine operations, such as capsizing, collision, acts of piracy and damage or loss from severe weather conditions. These hazards could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. Various hazards have adversely affected us in the past, and damages resulting from a catastrophic occurrence in the future involving us or any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially large claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from operating hazards in amounts that we believe to be prudent. Uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating hazards could reduce the funds available to us for capital, exploration and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historically, we have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major onshore and offshore facilities, with significant self-insured retentions. In the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, due to hurricane activity in recent years, the availability of insurance coverage for our offshore facilities for windstorms in the Gulf of Mexico region has been reduced or, in many instances, it is prohibitively expensive. As a result, our exposure to losses from future windstorm activity in the Gulf of Mexico region has increased. Litigation by private plaintiffs or government officials could adversely affect our performance. We currently are defending litigation and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. The subject matter of such litigation may include releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. While an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be expected to be material to us, in some cases the plaintiff or plaintiffs seek alleged damages involving large classes of potential litigants, and may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances. If we are not able to successfully defend such claims, they may result in substantial liability. We do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities. There has been a trend in recent years of litigation by attorneys general and other government officials seeking to recover civil damages from companies. We are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation of that type in the future. In addition to substantial liability, litigation may also seek injunctive relief which could have an adverse effect on our future operations. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of Marathon common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights, including preferences over Marathon common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our Board of Directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of Marathon common stock. For example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 