Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a summary of the material risks related to an investment in the Company’s securities. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell shares of common stock at times or prices they find attractive. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, in addition to those described in “Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements”: Actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; Changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to us or other financial institutions; Table of Contents - 12 - Table of Contents Speculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to our reputation or the financial services industry; Strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, dispositions or financings; Fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; Future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; Proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; Domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and General market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our stock price, notwithstanding our operating results. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate and there can be no assurances about the levels of the market prices for our common stock. Trading volume of our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies which may adversely affect the market price and may limit shareholders’ ability to quickly and easily sell their common stock, particularly in large quantities. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the price of our common stock to fall. As a result, shareholders may find it difficult to sell a significant number of shares at the prevailing market price. We may issue additional equity securities, or engage in other transactions which dilute our book value or affect the priority of the common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our board of directors may determine from time to time that we need to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares of our common stock or other securities. Other than the requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market, we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings, or the prices at which such offerings may be affected. Such offerings could be dilutive to common shareholders. New investors also may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to, and that adversely affect, our then current common shareholders. Additionally, if we raise additional capital by making offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock, and lenders with respect to other borrowings, will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Table of Contents - 13 - Table of Contents Our directors and executive officers own approximately 35% of the outstanding common stock. As a result of their combined ownership, they could make it more difficult to obtain approval for some matters submitted to shareholder vote, including acquisitions of Sun Bancorp. The results of the vote may be contrary to the desires or interests of the other shareholders. Directors and executive officers and their affiliates own approximately 35% of the outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2009, excluding shares which may be acquired upon the exercise of stock options or upon vesting of restricted stock. By voting against a proposal submitted to shareholders, the directors and officers, as a group, may be able to make approval more difficult for proposals requiring the vote of shareholders, such as some mergers, share exchanges, asset sales, and amendments to the amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the New Jersey Business Corporation Act could deter takeovers which are opposed by the Board of Directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires the approval of 80% of our outstanding shares for any merger or consolidation unless the transaction meets certain fair price criteria or the business combination has been approved or authorized by the Board of Directors. As a New Jersey corporation with a class of securities registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, we are governed by certain provisions of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act that also restrict business combinations with stockholders owning 10% or more of our outstanding shares (“interested stockholders”) for a period of five years after such interested stockholder achieves such status unless the business combination is approved by the Board of Directors prior to the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. The New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act also restricts business combinations with an interested stockholder after the five-year period unless the transaction receives the approval of two-thirds of the shares outstanding, exclusive of the shares held by the interested stockholder or the transaction satisfies certain fair price requirements. In addition, with certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be “acting in concert” from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquiror is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of our directors or otherwise direct the management or policies of our company without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Federal Reserve. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or Sun Bank’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we or Sun Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Any such offering may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of the shareholders. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or upon our dissolution, winding-up and liquidation and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Table of Contents - 14 - Table of Contents We do not currently pay cash dividends on the common stock. We do not currently pay a cash dividend on our common stock and our board does not have any current intention of instituting a policy of paying cash dividends. There can be no assurance that we will pay dividends to our shareholders in the future. As a bank holding company, our ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations. Sun Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends paid to us by our national bank subsidiary, Sun National Bank. These dividends to us are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Federal banking laws regulate the amount of dividends that may be paid by banking subsidiaries, such as Sun National Bank, without the prior approval of such bank’s primary regulator (which is, in the case of the Bank, the OCC). A national bank must obtain prior OCC approval to declare a dividend if the total of all dividends (common and preferred), including the proposed dividend, declared by the bank in any calendar year will exceed its net retained income of that year to date plus the retained net income of the preceding two calendar years. The amount available for payment of dividends to the Company by the Bank was $0 as of January 1, 2010 and no dividends may be paid by the Bank without OCC approval. The Company believes it is capable of funding the interest obligation on its junior subordinated debenture interest obligations through available cash balances maintained at the bank holding company for the period of time necessary until earnings are expected to support a dividend from the Bank. The Federal Reserve and the OCC have issued policy statements generally requiring bank holding companies and insured banks only to pay dividends out of current operating earnings. In addition, the Bank would be prohibited from paying a dividend to us if it became “undercapitalized” for purposes of the OCC’s “prompt corrective action” regulations. An “undercapitalized” institution is currently defined as one having a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0%, or a core capital, or leverage, ratio of less than 4.0%. Sun Bank is in compliance with all regulatory capital requirements and considered to be “well capitalized.” Risks Related to Our Business The current economic and banking environments pose significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on us and others in the financial institutions industry. For example, further deterioration in local economic conditions in our market could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. We may also face the following risks in connection with these events: Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in a deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolios, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our business; Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities; The methodologies we use to establish our allowance for loan losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation; Continued turmoil in the market, and loss of confidence in the banking system, could require the Bank to pay higher interest rates to obtain deposits to meet the needs of its depositors and borrowers, resulting in reduced margin and net interest income. If conditions worsen significantly, it is possible that banks such as the Bank may be unable to meet the needs of their depositors and borrowers, which could, in the worst case, result in the Bank being placed into receivership; and Compliance with increased regulation of the banking industry (and possible regulatory actions against us) may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, and divert management efforts. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition. Table of Contents - 15 - Table of Contents Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets, the banking system and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits or borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult market conditions will improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. We also may be required to pay even higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or the Federal Home Loan Bank on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events. We may experience a decrease in dividend income from our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock. We may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. Governmental regulation and regulatory actions against us may impair our operations or restrict our growth. We are subject to significant governmental supervision and regulation. These regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. Within the last several years, Congress and the President have passed and enacted significant changes to these statutes and regulations. There can be no assurance that such changes to the statutes and regulations or to their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. In addition to governmental supervision and regulation, we are subject to changes in other federal and state laws, including changes in tax laws, which could materially affect the banking industry. We are subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve and the OCC. If we fail to comply with federal bank regulations, the regulators may limit our activities or growth, fine us or ultimately put us out of business. Banking laws and regulations change from time to time. Bank regulations can hinder our ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated in the same manner or are less regulated. Federal and state bank regulatory agencies regulate many aspects of our operations. These areas include: The capital that must be maintained; The kinds of activities that can be engaged in; The kinds and amounts of investments that can be made; The locations of offices; Table of Contents - 16 - Table of Contents Insurance of deposits and the premiums that we must pay for this insurance; and How much cash we must set aside as reserves for deposits. In addition, due to the ongoing economic downturn and the resultant deterioration in the real estate markets and adverse impact on our loan portfolio and financial results, we may be the subject of additional regulatory actions in the future and face further limitations on our business, which would impair our operations and restrict our growth. If we fail to meet any regulatory capital requirement or are otherwise deemed to be operating in an unsafe and unsound manner or in violation of law, we may be subject to a variety of informal or formal remedial measures and enforcement actions. Such informal remedial measures and enforcement actions may include a memorandum of understanding, which is initiated by the regulator and outlines an institution’s agreement to take specified actions within specified time periods to correct violations of law or unsafe and unsound practices. In addition, as part of our regular examination process, regulators may advise us to operate under various restrictions as a prudential matter. Any of these restrictions, in whatever manner imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition to informal remedial actions, we may be subject to formal enforcement actions. Failure to comply with an informal enforcement action could cause us to be subject to formal enforcement actions. Formal enforcement actions include written agreements, cease and desist orders, the imposition of substantial fines and other civil penalties and, in the most severe cases, the termination of deposit insurance or the appointment of a conservator or receiver for Sun Bank. Furthermore, if Sun Bank fails to meet any regulatory capital requirement, it will be subject to the prompt corrective action framework of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvements Act of 1991, which imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions as the capital category of an institution declines, up to and including ultimately, the appointment of a conservator or receiver. A failure to meet regulatory capital requirements could also subject us to capital raising requirements. Possible enforcement actions against us could include the issuance of a cease-and-desist order that could be judicially enforced, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, the issuance of directives to increase capital or enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party, the appointment of a conservator or receiver, the termination of insurance of deposits, the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against institution-affiliated parties, and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. Any remedial measure or enforcement action, whether formal or informal, could impose restrictions on our ability to operate our business and adversely affect our prospects, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, any formal enforcement action could harm our reputation and our ability to retain and attract customers and impact the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that recent legislation and regulatory actions taken by the federal government will help stabilize the financial system in the United States. Several pieces of federal legislation have been enacted, and the Treasury, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and other federal agencies have enacted numerous programs, policies and regulations to address the current liquidity and credit crises. These measures include the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or EESA, the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009, or ARRA, and the numerous programs, including the TARP Capital Purchase Program, or the CPP, and expanded deposit insurance coverage, enacted thereunder. In addition, the Secretary of the Treasury has proposed fundamental changes to the regulation of financial institutions, markets and products. If enacted, the proposals would significantly alter not only how financial firms are regulated but also how they conduct their business. We cannot predict the actual effects of EESA, ARRA, the proposed regulatory reform measures and various governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets, on us and Sun Bank. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading prices of our securities. We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of EESA, the ARRA and related initiatives by the federal government. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Table of Contents - 17 - Table of Contents Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums have increased substantially in 2009 already, and we expect to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. A large number of bank failures has significantly depleted the deposit insurance fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, to be collected on September 30, 2009. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC in the future, including a possible additional assessment in 2009. We participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLG, for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. Banks that participate in the TLG’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee will pay the FDIC an annual assessment of 10 basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance. To the extent that these TLG assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLG program, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLG program upon depository institution holding companies, as well. The FDIC has extended the TLG to June 30, 2010, and increased the fee to banks that elect to participate in the extension to 15 to 25 basis points, depending on the institution’s risk category. Sun Bank expects that it will continue to participate in the TLG. These changes will cause our deposit insurance expense to increase. These actions could significantly increase our noninterest expense in 2009 and for the foreseeable future. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule requiring all banks to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009. Under the rule, the assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 will be based on each bank’s base assessment rate in effect as of September 30, 2009, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 will be equal to such September 30, 2009 assessment rate plus an additional three basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period would be calculated using its assessment base as of September 30, 2009, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Based on the final rule, the Company was required to make a payment of $18.3 million to the FDIC on December 30, 2009 , of which approximately $1.1 million applies to fourth quarter 2009 and approximately $17.2 million pertains to future period which will be recognized as expense over the course of the remaining respective periods. The market value of our securities portfolio may be impacted by the level of interest rates and the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers. If a decline in market value of a security is determined to be other than temporary, under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to write these securities down to their estimated fair value through a charge to earnings. As of December 31, 2009, we owned two non-rated single issuer trust preferred securities classified as available for sale with an amortized cost of $20.0 million and an estimated fair value of $16.7 million and one non-investment grade rated pooled trust-preferred security with an amortized cost of $8.8 million and an estimated fair value of $4.1 million, both classified as available for sale. We have reviewed these securities and determined that the decreases in estimated fair value are temporary. We perform an ongoing analysis of these securities. Future changes in interest rates or the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers may reduce the market value of these and other securities. We are, through the Bank, a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, and are required to maintain an investment in shares of its capital stock, which are restricted in that they can only be redeemed by the issuer at par value. On January 8, 2009, Moody’s Global Banking issued a report stating the potential for a significant other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charge on private label mortgage-backed securities held by the Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLBanks”). Of the 12 regional FHLBanks, capital levels for eight of these banks would be in jeopardy of meeting minimum regulatory capital requirements under a “worst-case” scenario that assumes all private-label securities owned by the FHLBanks are deemed to be impaired. The capital levels of the other four FHLBanks, which includes FHLB of New York, would remain above minimum regulatory capital requirements under the same scenario. We do not believe that an OTTI of its holdings exists as of December 31, 2009 and will continue to monitor the financial performance of the FHLB of New York. If the FHLB of New York is unable to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements or is required to aid the remaining FHLBanks, our holdings in the FHLB of New York may be determined to be other than temporarily impaired and may require a charge to our earnings which could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Table of Contents - 18 - Table of Contents Our loan portfolio includes a substantial amount of commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans. The credit risk related to these types of loans is greater than the risk related to residential loans. Our commercial and industrial loan portfolios, which include commercial real estate loans, totaled $2.25 billion at December 31, 2009, comprising 83% of total loans. Commercial and industrial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of risk of nonpayment or late payment than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans. Any significant failure to pay or late payments by our customers would hurt our earnings. The increased credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, and the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties. A significant portion of our commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loan portfolios includes a balloon payment feature. A number of factors may affect a borrower’s ability to make or refinance a balloon payment, including the financial condition of the borrower, the prevailing local economic conditions and the prevailing interest rate environment. Furthermore, commercial real estate loans secured by owner-occupied properties are dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. If the operating company suffers difficulties in terms of sales volume and/or profitability, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Loans secured by properties where repayment is dependent upon payment of rent by third party tenants or the sale of the property may be impacted by loss of tenants, lower lease rates needed to attract new tenants or the inability to sell a completed project in a timely fashion and at a profit. The collateral for our commercial loans that are secured by real estate are classified as 49.0% owner occupied and 51.0% non-owner occupied. Overall, our market place has expanded within the State of New Jersey and likewise, commercial lending activities have grown, especially in the central and more recently the northern parts of the state. A significant broad based deterioration in economic conditions throughout New Jersey, including the real estate markets as well as other external factors, could have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of the loan portfolio and consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we have failed to provide an adequate allowance for loan losses, there could be a significant negative impact on our earnings. The risk of loan losses varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value of the collateral for the loan. Based upon factors such as historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and a regular review of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses. At December 31, 2009, our allowance for loan losses was $60.0 million which represented 2.21% of total loans and 62.56% of nonperforming loans. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future credit losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase its allowance for loan losses, its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly and adversely affected. Given that the components of the allowance are based partially on historical losses and on risk rating changes in response to recent events, required reserves may trail the emergence of any unforeseen deterioration in credit quality. We may not be able to achieve our growth plans or effectively manage our growth. Our ability to successfully grow depends on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable acquisition and business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to integrate any acquisitions and otherwise manage its growth. There can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or that growth will be successfully managed. Our success also depends on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements from acquisitions and to combine the businesses of the acquired companies in a manner that permits growth without materially disrupting existing customer relationships or resulting in decreased revenues due to a loss of customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Additionally, if the integration efforts following acquisitions are not successfully managed, the failure of these integration efforts could result in loan losses, deposit attrition, operating costs, loss of key employees, disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or result in unanticipated losses. Table of Contents - 19 - Table of Contents Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect our earnings. The market areas in which we operate are among the most highly competitive in the country. There is substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting and retaining deposits and competition is increasing in intensity. The competition comes principally from other banks, larger and smaller, savings institutions, credit unions, mortgage banking companies and the myriad of nonbanking competitors, such as full service brokerage firms, money market mutual funds, insurance companies and other institutional lenders. Ultimately, competition may adversely affect the rates we pay on deposits and charges on loans, thereby potentially adversely affecting our profitability. Changes in interest rates may reduce our profits. The most significant component of our net income is net interest income, which accounted for 85% of total revenue in 2009. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income generated on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense paid on the funds required to support earning assets, namely deposits and borrowed funds. Interest income, which represents income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the level of interest rates, the interest rate sensitivity of the earning assets and the levels of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds is a function of the amount and type of funds required to support the earning assets, the rates paid to attract and retain deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of non-interest bearing demand deposits. Interest rate sensitivity is a measure of how our assets and liabilities react to changes in market interest rates. We expect that this interest sensitivity will not always be perfectly balanced. This means that either our interest-earning assets will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than its interest bearing liabilities, or vice versa. If more interest-earning assets than interest –bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are declining, then our net interest income may be reduced. If more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are rising, then our net income may be reduced. During 2008, the Federal Reserve aggressively dropped the target federal funds rate 400 basis points in response to concerns over a weakening economy and continuing problems in the credit markets. For the entire year 2009, the Federal Reserve Board maintained this target rate at a historically low range of 0.0% to 0.25%. Although the yield curve was positive throughout 2009, the slope of the curve steepened significantly as longer term rates increased significantly from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, while short term rates remained relatively stable. The Company’s deposit rates generally moved lower following the trend of open market interest rates. Credit spreads however narrowed in 2009 from the extraordinarily wide levels seen at the end of 2008. Despite the narrower open market spreads, The Company was able to maintain widened margins on its new and renewing loans. As a result the Company’s net interest margin expanded throughout 2009. In 2010, there could be a compression in our net interest margin from an increase in general interest rates, a narrowing of credit spreads or a flattening of the yield curve. If the goodwill that we have recorded in connection with our acquisitions becomes impaired, there could be a negative impact on our profitability. Under the purchase method of accounting for all business combinations, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company’s net assets, the excess is carried on the acquiror’s balance sheet as goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. At December 31, 2009, we had $142.2 million of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment are to be charged to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment is determined and there would not be any impact to our regulatory capital ratios. Based on tests of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets impairment, we have concluded that there has been no impairment during 2009, 2008 or 2007, and thus no write-downs have been recorded. However, we will continue to monitor conditions, such as fluctuations in market value and credit quality for us and our peers, which would trigger the need for a more frequent review. There can be no assurance that the future evaluations of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets will not result in determinations of impairment and write-downs which could have a non-cash impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Government regulation significantly affects our business and operations. We and the banking industry are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which we conduct its business. Table of Contents - 20 - Table of Contents Overall, these various statutes establish the corporate governance and permissible business activities for us, acquisition and merger restrictions, limitations on inter-company transactions, capital adequacy requirements, and requirements for anti-money laundering programs and other compliance matters. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds, consumers and not for the benefit of our shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may continue to be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, which is not in our control. Significant new laws, or changes to existing laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Overall compliance with all the required statutes increases our operating expenses, requires a significant amount of management’s attention and could be a competitive disadvantage with respect to non-regulated competitors. Risks Relating to Recent Market, Legislative and Regulatory Events The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies of the Federal Government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. It also can materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities. Its policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Additionally, legislation has been introduced into each house of Congress proposing sweeping financial reforms, including the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency with extensive powers. If enacted, the legislation would significantly alter not only how financial firms are regulated but also how they conduct their business. Changes in Federal Reserve policies and our regulatory environment generally are beyond our control, and we are unable to predict what changes may occur or the manner in which any future changes may affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 