ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our Risk Factors The matters discussed below and elsewhere in this report should be considered when evaluating our business operations and strategies. Additionally, there may be risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently deem immaterial, which may become material factors affecting our operations and business success. Many of the factors are not within our control. We provide no assurance that one or more of these factors will not: • adversely affect the market price of our common stock, • adversely affect our future operations, • adversely affect our business, • adversely affect our financial condition, • adversely affect our results of operations, • require significant reduction or discontinuance of our operations, • require us to seek a merger partner, or • require us to sell additional stock on terms that are highly dilutive to our shareholders. THIS REPORT CONTAINS CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELATING TO FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION. We have included some forward-looking statements in this section and other places in this report regarding our expectations. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology including “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should” or “anticipates” or the 23 Table of Contents negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategies that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they: • discuss our future expectations, • contain projections of our future operating results or of our future financial condition, or • state other “forward-looking” information. We believe it is important to discuss our expectations. However, it must be recognized that events may occur in the future over which we have no control and which we are not accurately able to predict. Any forward-looking statements contained in this report represent our judgment as of the date of this report. We disclaim, however, any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements. As a result, the reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. DURING 2006, 2005 AND 2004 WE HAVE INCURRED LOSSES FROM OPERATIONS IN THE CONSUMER PLAN DIVISION AND REGIONAL HEALTHCARE DIVISION AND THESE LOSSES MAY CONTINUE. During 2006, 2005 and 2004 we incurred losses from continuing operations of $6,814,000, $13,229,000 and $1,657,000, respectively and net losses of $7,724,000, $13,371,000 and $1,956,000, respectively. As part of those operating losses and net losses, we incurred goodwill impairment charges of $6,866,000 including tax considerations of $426,000, $12,900,000 and $2,000,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2006, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $4,066,000 including tax considerations of $426,000 for AAI and $2,800,000 for Capella, respectively. In 2005, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $12,900,000 related to Capella. In 2004, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $2,000,000 related to Foresight, Inc. (“Foresight”). Before the goodwill impairment charges, income from continuing operations was $52,000 in 2006 and $343,000 in 2004 and a loss of $329,000 in 2005. The operating loss before goodwill impairment charges in 2005 was primarily attributable to the continuing costs associated with our Care Entréetm medical savings program. There is no assurance that losses from our Care Entréetm medical savings program will not continue or that our other operations will become or continue to be profitable in 2007 or thereafter. OUR REVENUES IN THE CONSUMER PLAN DIVISION ARE LARGELY DEPENDENT ON THE INDEPENDENT MARKETING REPRESENTATIVES, WHOSE REDUCED SALES EFFORTS OR TERMINATION MAY RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT LOSS OF REVENUES. Our success and growth depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate the network of independent marketing representatives who principally market our Care Entréetm medical savings program and the USA Healthcare Savings products that we are introducing in 2007. Our independent marketing representatives typically offer and sell the Care Entréetm program on a part-time basis, and may engage in other business activities. These marketing representatives may give higher priority to other products or services, reducing their efforts devoted to marketing our Care Entréetm program. Also, our ability to attract and retain marketing representatives could be negatively affected by adverse publicity relating to our Care Entréetm program and operations. Under our network marketing system, the marketing representatives’ downline organizations are headed by a relatively small number of key representatives who are responsible for a substantial percentage of our total revenues. The loss of a significant number of marketing representatives, including any key representatives, for any reason, could adversely affect our revenues and operating results, and could impair our ability to attract new distributors. A LARGE PART OF OUR REVENUES ARE DEPENDENT ON KEY RELATIONSHIPS WITH A FEW PRIVATE LABEL RESELLERS AND WE MAY BECOME MORE DEPENDENT ON SALES BY A FEW PRIVATE LABEL RESELLERS. Our revenues from sales of our independent marketing representatives have declined and continue to decline. As a result, we have become more dependent on sales made by private label resellers to whom we sell our discount medical programs. If sales made by our independent marketing representatives continue to decline or if our efforts 24 Table of Contents to increase sales through private label resellers succeed, we may become more dependent on sales made by our private label resellers. Because a large number of these sales may be made by a few resellers, our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected by the loss of our relationship with any of those private label resellers. DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF RELATIONSHIPS WITH PREFERRED PROVIDER ORGANIZATIONS ARE CRITICAL AND THE LOSS OF SUCH RELATIONSHIPS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. As part of our business operations, we must develop and maintain relationships with preferred provider organizations within each market area that our services are offered. Development and maintenance of these relationships with healthcare providers within a preferred provider organization is in part based on professional relationships and the reputation of our management and marketing personnel. Because many members that receive healthcare services are self-insured and responsible for payment for healthcare services received, failure to pay or late payments by members may negatively affect our relationship with the preferred provider organizations. Consequently, preferred provider organization relationships may be adversely affected by events beyond our control, including departures of key personnel and alterations in professional relationships and members’ failures to pay for services received. The loss of a preferred provider organization within a geographic market area may not be replaced on a timely basis, if at all, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE CURRENTLY RELY HEAVILY ON ONE KEY PREFERRED PROVIDER ORGANIZATION AND THE LOSS OF OR A CHANGE IN OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH THIS PROVIDER COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. Private Healthcare Systems (“PHCS”), a division of MultiPlan, Inc., is the preferred provider organization through which most of our members obtain savings on medical services through our Care Entrée program. The loss of PHCS as a preferred provider organization or a disruption of our members’ access to PHCS could affect our ability to retain our members and could, therefore, adversely affect our business. While we currently enjoy a good relationship with PHCS and MultiPlan, there are no assurances that we will continue to have a good relationship with them in the future, or that MultiPlan, having recently acquired PHCS, may choose to change its business strategy in a way that adversely affects us by either limiting or terminating our members’ access to the PHCS network or by entering into agreements with our competitors to provide their members access to PHCS. WE FACE COMPETITION FOR MARKETING REPRESENTATIVES AS WELL AS COMPETITIVE OFFERINGS OF HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. Within the healthcare savings membership industry competition for members is becoming more intense. We offer membership programs that provide products and services similar to or directly in competition with products and services offered by our network-marketing competitors as well as the providers of such products and services through other channels of distribution. Some of our private label resellers have chosen to sell a product that is competitive to ours in order to maintain multiple sources for their products. Others may also choose to sell competing products. Furthermore, marketing representatives have a variety of products that they can choose to market, whether competing with us in the healthcare market or not. Our business operations compete in two channels of competition. First, we compete based upon the healthcare products and services offered. These competitors include companies that offer healthcare products and services through membership programs much like our programs, as well as insurance companies, preferred provider organization networks and other organizations that offer benefit programs to their customers. Second, we compete with all types of network marketing companies throughout the U.S. for new marketing representatives. Many of our competitors have substantially larger customer bases and greater financial and other resources. We provide no assurance that our competitors will not provide healthcare benefit programs comparable or superior to our programs at lower membership prices or adapt more quickly to evolving healthcare industry trends or changing industry requirements. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, 25 Table of Contents and loss of market share, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with current and future competitors. GOVERNMENT REGULATION MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OR LIMIT OUR OPERATIONS. Most of the discount medical programs that we offer through our Consumer Plan Division are sold without the need for an insurance license by any federal, state or local regulatory licensing agency or commission. In comparison, companies that provide insurance benefits and operate healthcare management organizations and preferred provider organizations are regulated by state licensing agencies and commissions. These regulations extensively cover operations, including scope of benefits, rate formula, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing and advertising. Several states have enacted laws and regulations overseeing discount medical plans. We do not know the full extent of these regulations and additional states may also impose regulation. Our need to comply with these regulations may adversely affect or limit our future operations. The cost of complying with these laws and regulations has and will likely continue to have a material effect on our financial position. Government regulation of health and life insurance, annuities and healthcare coverage and health plans is a changing area of law and varies from state to state. Although we are not an insurance company, the insurance companies from which we obtain our products and financial services are subject to various federal and state regulations applicable to their operations. These insurance companies must comply with constantly evolving regulations and make changes occasionally to services, products, structure or operations in accordance with the requirements of those regulations. We may also be limited in how we market and distribute our products and financial services as a result of these laws and regulations. WE HAVE A FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR MEMBERS THROUGH OUR TOTAL CARE AND ESSENTIAL CARE PROGRAM OFFERINGS. IN THIS CAPACITY, WE COULD BE LIABLE FOR THE LOSS OF MEMBERS’ FUNDS DEPOSITED WITH US IN PERSONAL MEDICAL ACCOUNTS. In the fourth quarter of 2002, we initiated a medical savings program through our Total Care and Essential Care programs that were processed through our subsidiary, Foresight, and are now processed through our subsidiary, Access Administrators, Inc., as a third-party administrator. Under this medical savings program, funds collected from members are held in Personal Medical Accounts for the benefit of the member as a source of payment for healthcare services obtained through our Total Care and Essential Care programs. Under the medical savings program we have a fiduciary responsibility to our members for the funds held for their benefit much like a trustee. In the unforeseen event of a loss of these funds while being held by us or our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal controls, we will be responsible and liable to the affected members for any such loss, including any consequential damages suffered by the members, which liability could be substantial. We have terminated this program and the amounts held in our members’ Personal Medical Accounts has been returned to the individual account holders. Nevertheless, our risk for the funds that had been held in those accounts remains with regard to previously completed transactions. AS A RESULT OF THE INTRODUCTION OF PERSONAL MEDICAL ACCOUNTS, OUR FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY CONTINUE TO BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY A DECREASE IN THE NUMBER OF HEALTHCARE SAVINGS PROGRAM MEMBERSHIPS THAT WE CAN SELL AND MAINTAIN. While we believe that the introduction of our Personal Medical Accounts (“PMAs”) was an important product evolution, the initial impact of this introduction has negatively affected our business. This impact is the result of additional difficulties in selling and maintaining memberships in our program because of the added complexity. Although we have terminated our PMA program, there is no assurance that we will be able to overcome these difficulties, and we may not be able to increase the number of memberships that are sold and maintained. As a result, our financial position and results of operations may be negatively affected. 26 Table of Contents THE FAILURE OF OUR NETWORK MARKETING ORGANIZATION TO COMPLY WITH FEDERAL AND STATE REGULATION COULD RESULT IN ENFORCEMENT ACTION AND IMPOSITION OF PENALTIES, MODIFICATION OF OUR NETWORK MARKETING SYSTEM, AND NEGATIVE PUBLICITY. Our network marketing organization is subject to federal and state laws and regulations administered by the Federal Trade Commission and various state agencies. These laws and regulations include securities, franchise investment, business opportunity and criminal laws prohibiting the use of “pyramid” or “endless chain” types of selling organizations. These regulations are generally directed at ensuring that product and service sales are ultimately made to consumers (as opposed to other marketing representatives) and that advancement within the network marketing organization is based on sales of products and services, rather than on investment in the company or other non-retail sales related criteria. The compensation structure of a network marketing organization is very complex. Compliance with all of the applicable regulations and laws is uncertain because of: • the evolving interpretations of existing laws and regulations, and • the enactment of new laws and regulations pertaining in general to network marketing organizations and product and service distribution. Accordingly, there is the risk that our network marketing system could be found to not comply with applicable laws and regulations that could: • result in enforcement action and imposition of penalty, • require modification of the marketing representative network system, • result in negative publicity, or • have a negative effect on distributor morale and loyalty. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations as well as our financial condition. THE LEGALITY OF OUR NETWORK MARKETING ORGANIZATION IS SUBJECT TO CHALLENGE BY OUR MARKETING REPRESENTATIVES, WHICH COULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT DEFENSE COSTS, SETTLEMENT PAYMENTS OR JUDGMENTS, AND COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Our network marketing organization is subject to legality challenge by our marketing representatives, both individually and as a class. Generally, these challenges would be based on claims that our marketing network program was operated as an illegal “pyramid scheme” in violation of federal securities laws, state unfair practice and fraud laws and the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. Proceedings resulting from these claims could result in significant defense costs, settlement payments, or judgments, and could have a material adverse effect on us. WE MAY HAVE EXPOSURE AND LIABILITY RELATING TO NON-COMPLIANCE WITH THE HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 1996 AND THE COST OF COMPLIANCE COULD BE MATERIAL. In April 2003 privacy regulations promulgated by The Department of Health and Human Services pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”). HIPAA imposes extensive restrictions on the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information by certain entities. Also as part of HIPAA, the Department of Health and Human Services has issued final regulations standardizing electronic transactions between health plans, providers and clearinghouses. Healthcare plans, providers and claims administrators are required to conform their electronic and data processing systems to HIPAA electronic transaction requirements. While we believe we are currently compliant with these regulations, we cannot be certain of the extent to which the 27 Table of Contents enforcement or interpretation of these regulations will affect our business. Our continuing compliance with these regulations, therefore, may have a significant impact on our business operations and may be at material cost in the event we are subject to these regulations. Sanctions for failing to comply with standards issued pursuant to HIPAA include criminal and civil sanctions. DISRUPTIONS IN OUR OPERATIONS DUE TO IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM MAY OCCUR AND COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS. We recently transitioned to our new management information system. This is a proprietary system and we do not rely on any third party for its support and maintenance. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue operating without experiencing any disruptions in our operations or that our relationships with our members, marketing representatives or providers will not be adversely affected or that our internal controls will not be adversely affected. WE HAVE MANY COMPETITORS AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY WHICH MAY LEAD TO A LACK OF REVENUES AND DISCONTINUANCE OF OUR OPERATIONS. We compete with numerous well-established companies that design and implement membership programs and other healthcare programs. Some of our competitors may be companies that have programs that are functionally similar or superior to our programs. Most of our competitors possess substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than us. They may also have established reputations relating to their programs. Due to competitive market forces, we may experience price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in the future, any of which would result in decreases in sales and revenues. These decreases in revenues would adversely affect our business and results of operations and could lead to discontinuance of operations. There can be no assurance that: • we will be able to compete successfully; • our competitors will not develop programs that render our programs less marketable or even obsolete; or • we will be able to successfully enhance our programs when necessary. THE GOODWILL ACQUIRED PURSUANT TO OUR ACQUISITIONS OF THE CAPELLA GROUP AND AAI MAY BECOME FURTHER IMPAIRED AND REQUIRE A WRITE-DOWN AND THE RECOGNITION OF AN IMPAIRMENT EXPENSE THAT MAY BE SUBSTANTIAL. In connection with our acquisitions of The Capella Group and AAI, we recorded goodwill that had an aggregate asset value of $7,466,000 at December 31, 2006. This carrying value has been reduced through impairment charges of $6,866,000 including tax considerations of $426,000 in 2006, $12,900,000 in 2005, and $2,000,000 in 2004. In the event that the goodwill is determined to be further impaired for any reason, we will be required to write-down or reduce the value of the goodwill and recognize an additional impairment expense. The impairment expense may be substantial in amount and, in such case, adversely affect the results of our operations for the applicable period and may negatively affect the market value of our common stock. OUR SUBSIDIARY, AAI, DERIVES A LARGE PERCENTAGE OF ITS INCOME FROM A FEW KEY CLIENTS AND THE LOSS OF ANY OF THOSE CLIENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. AAI provides full service third-party administration services to adjudicate and pay medical claims for employers who have self-funded all or any portion of their healthcare costs. Their primary market is governmental entities in the metropolitan area of El Paso, Texas, including cities and school districts. There is a limited number of these types of entities within that metropolitan area. During 2006 we incurred a $4,066,000 goodwill impairment charge including tax considerations of $426,000 as a result of the reduction in the number of lives covered under plans we administer. There is no assurance that AAI will obtain renewal or extension of those contracts in 2007. The 28 Table of Contents loss of any of these contractual relationships will adversely affect on our operating results and the loss of more than one of these contractual relationships could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. WE MAY FIND IT DIFFICULT TO INTEGRATE ICM’S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS WITH OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. Although we believe that ICM’s marketing and distribution of insurance products and financial services will complement and fit well with our business and the need for marketing of our healthcare savings programs and third-party claims administration services, ICM’s business is new to us. Our unfamiliarity with this business may make it more difficult to integrate ICM’s operations with ours. We will not achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger-acquisition unless we successfully integrate the operations of ICM and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that this will occur. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THIRD PARTY SERVICE PROVIDERS AND THE FAILURE OF SUCH SERVICE PROVIDERS TO ADEQUATELY PROVIDE SERVICES TO US COULD AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS BECAUSE SUCH FAILURE COULD AFFECT OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR CUSTOMERS. As a cost efficiency measure, we have entered into agreements with third parties for their provision of services to us in exchange for a monthly fee normally calculated on a per member basis. These services include the enrollment of members through different media, operation of a member-services call center, claims administration, billing and collection services, and the production and distribution of fulfillment member marketing materials. One of these is our agreement with Lifeguard Emergency Travel, Inc. (“Lifeguard”) for the provision of these services to many of our members and prospective members. As a result of these outsourcing agreements, we may lose direct control over these key functions and operations. The failure by Lifeguard or any of our other third party service providers to perform the services to the same or similar level of quality that we could provide could adversely affect our relationships with our members, customers, marketing representatives and our ability to retain and attract members, customers, marketing representatives and, accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. THE AVAILABILITY OF OUR INSURANCE PRODUCTS AND FINANCIAL SERVICES ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS WITH VARIOUS INSURANCE COMPANIES AND THE UNAVAILABILITY OF THOSE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES FOR ANY REASON MAY RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT LOSS OF REVENUES. We are not an insurance company and only market and distribute insurance products and financial services developed and offered by insurance companies. We must develop and maintain relationships with insurance companies that provide products and services for a particular market segment (the elderly, the young family, etc.) that we in turn make available to the independent agents with whom they have contracted to sell the products and services to the individual consumer. Of the eight insurance companies with whom ICM and its subsidiaries had strategic relationships prior to our acquisition, more than 95% of 2006 and 2005 revenue of ICM and its subsidiaries was attributable to the insurance products and financial services offered by five of the companies. Thus, we are dependent on a relatively small number of insurance companies to provide product and financial services for sale through our channels. Development and maintenance of relationships with the insurance companies may in part be based on professional relationships and the reputation of our management and marketing personnel. Consequently, the relationships with insurance companies may be adversely affected by events beyond our control, including departures of key personnel and alterations in professional relationships. Our success and growth depend in large part upon our ability to establish and maintain these strategic relationships, contractual or otherwise, with various insurance companies to provide their products and services, including those insurance products and financial services that may be developed in the future. The loss or termination of these strategic relationships could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Furthermore, the loss or termination may also impair our ability to maintain and attract new insurance agencies and their agents to distribute the insurance products and services that we offer. 29 Table of Contents WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON INDEPENDENT INSURANCE AGENCIES AND THEIR AGENTS TO OFFER AND SELL OUR INSURANCE PRODUCTS AND FINANCIAL SERVICES. We are principally dependent upon independent insurance agencies and their agents to offer and sell the insurance products and financial services that we offer and distribute. These insurance agencies and their agents may offer and distribute insurance products and financial services that are competitive with ours. These independent agencies and their agents may give higher priority and greater incentives (financial or otherwise) to other insurance products or financial services, reducing their efforts devoted to marketing and distribution of the insurance products and financial services that we offer. Also, our ability to attract and retain independent insurance agencies could be negatively affected by adverse publicity relating to our products and services or our operations. Furthermore, of the approximately 5,000 independent agents with whom ICM and its subsidiaries had active distribution and marketing relationships prior to our acquisition, more than 80% of the revenues of ICM and its subsidiaries was attributable to the product sales and financial services through approximately 1,000 independent insurance agents. These agents report through approximately 20 independent general agencies. Thus, we are dependent on a small number of independent insurance agencies for a very significant percentage of our total insurance products and financial services revenue. Development and maintenance of the relationships with independent insurance agencies and their agents may in part be based on professional relationships and the reputation of our management and marketing personnel. Consequently, these relationships may be adversely affected by events beyond our control, including departures of key personnel and alterations in professional relationships. The loss of a significant number of the independent insurance agencies (and their agents), as well as the loss of a key agency or its agents, for any reason, could adversely affect our revenue and operating results, or could impair our ability to establish new relationships or continue strategic relationships with independent insurance agencies and their agents. WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE MARKET PLACE FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AS WELL AS COMPETITION FOR INSURANCE AGENCIES AND THEIR AGENTS FOR THE MARKETING OF THE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES OFFERED. Instead of utilizing captive or wholly-owned insurance agencies for the offer and sale of its products and services, we utilize independent insurance agencies and their agents as the principal marketing and distribution channel. Competition for independent insurance agencies and their agents is intense. Also, competition from products and services similar to or directly in competition with the products and services that we offer is intense, including those products and services offered and sold through the same channels utilized for distribution of our insurance products and financial services. Under arrangements with the independent insurance agencies, the agencies and their agents may offer and sell a variety of insurance products and financial services, including those that compete with the insurance products and financial services that we offer. Thus, our business operations compete in two channels of competition. First, we compete based upon the insurance products and financial services offered. This competition includes products and services of insurance companies that compete with the products and services of the insurance companies that we offered and sell. Second, we compete with all types of marketing and distribution companies throughout the U.S. for independent insurance agencies and their agents. Many of our competitors have substantially larger bases of insurance companies providing products and services, and longer-term established relationships with independent insurance agencies and agents for the sale and distribution of products and services, as well as greater financial and other resources. There is no assurance that our competitors will not provide insurance products and financial services comparable or superior to those products and services that we offer at lower costs or prices, greater sales incentives (financial or otherwise) or adapt more quickly to evolving insurance industry trends or changing industry requirements. Increased competition may result in reduced margins on product sales and services, less than anticipated sales or reduced sales, and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. 30 Table of Contents WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON PETER W. NAUERT AND THE LOSS OF HIS SERVICES WOULD HAVE A SUBSTANTIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. We are highly dependent upon Peter W. Nauert. Mr. Nauert’s management skills, reputation and contacts within the insurance industry, including insurance companies and insurance agencies and their agents, are key elements of our business plans. The loss of the services of Mr. Nauert would adversely affect the anticipated growth and success we expect to obtain following completion of our merger with ICM. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We are not an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer (as such items are defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act) or a well-known seasoned issuer (as such term is defined under Rule 405 of the Securities Act). While this item is not required, we can report that as of the date of this report, there are no pending unresolved comments received from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 