ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our Risk Factors The matters discussed below and elsewhere in this report should be considered when evaluating our business operations and strategies. Additionally, there may be risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently deem immaterial, which may become material factors affecting our operations and business success. Many of the factors are not within our control. We provide no assurance that one or more of these factors will not: • adversely affect the market price of our common stock, • adversely affect our future operations, • adversely affect our business, • adversely affect our financial condition, • adversely affect our results of operations, • require significant reduction or discontinuance of our operations, • require us to seek a merger partner, or • require us to sell additional stock on terms that are highly dilutive to our shareholders. 20 Table of Contents THIS REPORT CONTAINS CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELATING TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION. We have included some forward-looking statements in this section and other places in this report regarding our expectations. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology including “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should” or “anticipates” or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategies that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they: • discuss our future expectations, • contain projections of our future operating results or of our future financial condition, or • state other “forward-looking” information. We believe it is important to discuss our expectations. However, it must be recognized that events may occur in the future over which we have no control and which we are not accurately able to predict. Any forward-looking statements contained in this report represent our judgment as of the date of this report. We disclaim, however, any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements. As a result, the reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. DURING THE YEARS OF 2007, 2006 AND 2005 WE INCURRED LOSSES FROM OPERATIONS AND THESE LOSSES MAY CONTINUE. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 we incurred losses from continuing operations of $13,155,000, $6,814,000 and $13,229,000, respectively and net losses of $13,155,000, $7,724,000 and $13,371,000, respectively. As part of those operating losses and net losses, we incurred goodwill impairment charges of $12,069,000, $6,440,000 including tax considerations of $426,000, and $12,900,000 in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2007, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $4,092,000 for Foresight due to the loss of significant contracts, $3,377,000 for Capella due to the failure of certain new product and marketing initiatives to achieve expected results, and $4,600,000 for the Insurance Marketing Division due to significant declines in sales of Medicare supplemental policies. In 2006, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $4,066,000 including tax considerations of $426,000 for Foresight and $2,800,000 for Capella. In 2005, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $12,900,000 related to Capella. The operating losses before goodwill impairment charges in 2007 and 2005 were primarily attributable to the continuing costs associated with our medical savings program. There is no assurance that losses from our medical savings program will not continue or that our other operations will become or continue to be profitable in 2008 or thereafter. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL CAPITAL ON A TIMELY BASIS OR ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS TO FUND OUR WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS. As a result of our decline in revenues, our merger with ICM, our acquisition of PME, and certain marketing and sales initiatives, we have used significant amounts of cash in our operations and in financing and investing activities. As of December 31, 2007, we had a balance of $2.7 million of unrestricted cash. In 2007, cash used in investing and financing activities was $1.4 million and $.9 million, respectively, while our operating activities provided $1.7 million in cash. This resulted in a decrease of $.5 million in our cash and cash equivalents during 2007. We expect that we will need significant additional cash resources to operate and execute our business plan in the future, particularly with respect to our agent advance commission programs that are critical to the success of our Insurance Marketing Division. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to maintain our existing cost structure and return on sales, fund obligations for additional 21 Table of Contents capital and execute our business and strategic plans as currently conceived. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities may result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional indebtedness could result in debt service obligations and lender imposed operating and financing covenants that restrict our operations. In addition, financing might be unavailable in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. OUR SUBSIDIARY, FORESIGHT, DERIVES A LARGE PERCENTAGE OF ITS INCOME FROM A FEW KEY CLIENTS AND THE LOSS OF ANY OF THOSE CLIENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Foresight provides full service third-party administration services to adjudicate and pay medical claims for employers who have self-funded all or any portion of their healthcare costs. Foresight’s primary market is governmental entities in the metropolitan area of El Paso, Texas, including cities and school districts. There are a limited number of these types of entities within that metropolitan area. During the second and third quarters of 2007, we announced several adverse events related to the loss of two major customers and possible loss or non-renewal of another major customer beyond contract expirations in 2007. As of June 30, 2007, we re-evaluated the carrying value of goodwill related to Foresight and determined that an impairment charge of $4,092,000 that reduced the carrying value of the goodwill to zero for the loss of these contracts was appropriate. There is no assurance that Foresight will obtain renewal or extension on its remaining contracts. The loss of any of these remaining contractual relationships will adversely affect our operating results and the loss of more than one of these contractual relationships could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. WE HAVE IDENTIFIED MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS, THAT COULD AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO ENSURE TIMELY AND RELIABLE FINANCIAL REPORTS. Our processing and recording of commission revenues earned and commission expenses payable to agents are key determinants of material revenues and expenses reported in our financial statements. This processing and recording of commission revenue and expense, together with the accurate and timely disbursement of commission payments to certain agents, is dependent upon our timely receipt of complete and accurate information about such commissions from the insurance carriers whose policies we sell. While we have established multiple compensating manual processes designed to partially mitigate these weaknesses, we nevertheless have insufficient control procedures in place to fully assure that commission information received from those insurance carriers is complete, accurate or received in a timely manner. Additionally, some information is processed for us by outside third party service bureaus or administrators. Some of those third party service bureaus or administrators have not had their controls evaluated by independent registered accountants and they have not received SAS 70 reports on their controls. We have performed limited reviews of their controls and have preliminarily determined that they have insufficient information technology general controls. Additionally, we determined that we had numerous weaknesses in our own internal information technology controls in these areas. Our failure to receive and process such commission information in a timely, complete and accurate fashion or to process it accurately could adversely impact our ability to pay commissions to our agents in a timely and accurate manner or to state revenues or expenses in our financial statements in a materially correct manner. WE RELY ON OUR INSURANCE CARRIER PARTNERS TO ACCURATELY AND REGULARLY PREPARE COMMISSION REPORTS, AND IF THESE REPORTS ARE INACCURATE OR NOT SENT TO US IN A TIMELY MANNER, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD SUFFER. Our Insurance Marketing Division generates revenues primarily from the receipt of commissions paid to us by insurance companies based upon the insurance policies sold to consumers through agents with which we have contracted. These revenues are in the form of first year and renewal commissions that vary by company and product. In calculating the amount of commission earned by us and in accounting for commission paid to us by insurance companies, we rely on data not under our control, including data provided to us by the 22 Table of Contents insurance company and premium collection and payment service providers engaged by the insurance company to calculate and pay commissions. The data that we receive may fluctuate as the insurance company or its collection and payment service providers make adjustments to their reports of policies sold. We have implemented our own processes to evaluate the data that we receive to help confirm that it is consistent with the number and types of policies that we believe have been sold. However, it is difficult for us to independently determine whether carriers are reporting all commissions due to us, primarily because the majority of our members terminate their policies by discontinuing their premium payments to the carrier instead of informing us of the cancellation. Because we cannot always rely on the accuracy or timeliness of the data that we receive from the insurance company or its payment service providers, our financial reports are subject to adjustment and we may not collect and recognize revenue that we are entitled, both of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The same data from insurance carriers or their payment service providers is used to calculate the balances of advanced commissions owed by us to the insurance carrier or owed to us by agents. Because we cannot always rely on the accuracy or timeliness of the data that we receive from the insurance company or its payment service, our calculation of these balances may fluctuate and resulting adjustments may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our processing and recording of commission revenues earned and commission expenses payable to agents are key determinants of material revenues and expenses reported in our financial statements. This processing and recording of commission revenue and expense, together with the accurate and timely disbursement of commission payments to agents, is dependent upon our timely receipt of complete and accurate information about such commissions from the insurance carriers whose policies we sell. Our failure to receive such commission information in a timely, complete and accurate fashion could adversely impact our ability to pay commissions in a timely and accurate manner or to state revenues or expenses in our financial statements in a materially correct manner. OUR REVENUES IN THE CONSUMER PLAN DIVISION ARE LARGELY DEPENDENT ON THE INDEPENDENT MARKETING REPRESENTATIVES, WHOSE REDUCED SALES EFFORTS OR TERMINATION MAY RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT LOSS OF REVENUES. Our success and growth depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate the network of independent marketing representatives who principally market our USA Healthcare Savings and Care Entréetm medical savings programs. Our independent marketing representatives typically offer and sell theseprograms on a part-time basis, and may engage in other business activities. These marketing representatives may give higher priority to other products or services, reducing their efforts devoted to marketing our programs. Also, our ability to attract and retain marketing representatives could be negatively affected by adverse publicity relating to our programs and operations. Under our network marketing system, the marketing representatives’ downline organizations are headed by a relatively small number of key representatives who are responsible for a substantial percentage of our total revenues. The loss of a significant number of marketing representatives, including any key representatives, for any reason, could adversely affect our revenues and operating results, and could impair our ability to attract new distributors. A LARGE PART OF OUR CONSUMER PLAN DIVISION REVENUES ARE DEPENDENT ON KEY RELATIONSHIPS WITH A FEW PRIVATE LABEL RESELLERS AND WE MAY BECOME MORE DEPENDENT ON SALES BY A FEW PRIVATE LABEL RESELLERS. Our revenues from sales of our independent marketing representatives have declined and continue to decline. As a result, we have become more dependent on sales made by private label resellers to whom we sell our discount medical programs. If sales made by our independent marketing representatives continue to decline or if our efforts to increase sales through private label resellers succeed, we may become more dependent on sales made by our private label resellers. Because a large number of these sales may be made by 23 Table of Contents a few resellers, our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected by the loss of our relationship with any of those private label resellers. DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF RELATIONSHIPS WITH PREFERRED PROVIDER ORGANIZATIONS ARE CRITICAL AND THE LOSS OF SUCH RELATIONSHIPS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. As part of our business operations, we must develop and maintain relationships with preferred provider organizations within each market area that our Consumer Plan Division products are offered. Development and maintenance of these relationships with healthcare providers within a preferred provider organization is in part based on professional relationships and the reputation of our management and marketing personnel. Because many members that receive healthcare services are self-insured and responsible for payment for healthcare services received, failure to pay or late payments by members may negatively affect our relationship with the preferred provider organizations. Consequently, preferred provider organization relationships may be adversely affected by events beyond our control, including departures of key personnel and alterations in professional relationships and members’ failures to pay for services received. The loss of a preferred provider organization within a geographic market area may not be replaced on a timely basis, if at all, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE CURRENTLY RELY HEAVILY ON TWO KEY PREFERRED PROVIDER ORGANIZATIONS AND THE LOSS OF OR A CHANGE IN OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH THESE PROVIDERS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. Private Healthcare Systems (“PHCS”), a division of MultiPlan, Inc., is the preferred provider organization through which most of our members have obtained savings on medical services through our Care Entréetm program. PME has utilized the Galaxy Health Network (“Galaxy”) preferred provider organization. The loss of PHCS or Galaxy as a preferred provider organization or a disruption of our members’ access to PHCS or Galaxy could affect our ability to retain our members and could, therefore, adversely affect our business. While we currently enjoy a good relationship with Galaxy, PHCS and MultiPlan, there are no assurances that we will continue to have a good relationship with them in the future, or that MultiPlan, having recently acquired PHCS, may choose to change its business strategy in a way that adversely affects us by either limiting or terminating our members’ access to the PHCS network or by entering into agreements with our competitors to provide their members access to PHCS. WE FACE COMPETITION FOR MARKETING REPRESENTATIVES AS WELL AS COMPETITIVE OFFERINGS OF HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. Within the healthcare savings membership industry, competition for members is becoming more intense. We offer membership programs that provide products and services similar to or directly in competition with products and services offered by our network-marketing competitors as well as the providers of such products and services through other channels of distribution. Some of our private label resellers have chosen to sell a product that is competitive to ours in order to maintain multiple sources for their products. Others may also choose to sell competing products. Furthermore, marketing representatives have a variety of products that they can choose to market, whether competing with us in the healthcare market or not. Our business operations compete in two channels of competition. First, we compete based upon the healthcare products and services offered. These competitors include companies that offer healthcare products and services through membership programs much like our programs, as well as insurance companies, preferred provider organization networks and other organizations that offer benefit programs to their customers. Second, we compete with all types of network marketing companies throughout the U.S. for new marketing representatives. Many of our competitors have substantially larger customer bases and greater financial and other resources. We provide no assurance that our competitors will not provide healthcare benefit programs comparable or superior to our programs at lower membership prices or adapt more quickly to evolving healthcare industry 24 Table of Contents trends or changing industry requirements. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with current and future competitors. GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND RELATED PRIVATE PARTY LITIGATION MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL POSITION AND LIMIT OUR OPERATIONS. In recent years, several states have enacted laws and regulations that govern discount medical program organizations (DMPOs). The laws vary in scope, ranging from registration to a comprehensive licensing process with oversight over all aspects of the program, including the manner by which discount medical programs are sold, the price at which they are sold, the relationship of the DMPO licenses or registrations for both subsidiaries in our Consumer Plan Division. We hold these licenses in every jurisdiction where such a license or registration is required to be held and where the respective subsidiary conducts business. Because these laws and regulations are relatively new, we do not know the full extent of how they will affect our business or whether or not we will be able to maintain all necessary licenses. Our need to comply with these regulations may adversely affect or limit our future operations. The cost of complying with these laws and regulations has and will likely continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Government regulation of health and life insurance, annuities and healthcare coverage and health plans is a changing area of law and varies from state to state. Although we are not an insurance company, the insurance companies from which we obtain our products and financial services are subject to various federal and state regulations applicable to their operations. These insurance companies must comply with constantly evolving regulations and make changes occasionally to services, products, structure or operations in accordance with the requirements of those regulations. We may also be limited in how we market and distribute our products and financial services as a result of these laws and regulations. We market memberships in associations that have been formed to provide various consumer benefits to their members. These associations may include in their benefit packages insurance products that are issued under group or blanket policies covering the association’s members. Most states allow these memberships to be sold under certain circumstances without a licensed insurance agent making each sale. If a state were to determine that our sales of these memberships do not comply with their regulations, our ability to continue selling such memberships would be affected and we might be subject to fines and penalties and may have to issue refunds or provide restitution to the associations and their members. The business practices and compensation arrangements of the insurance intermediary industry, including our practices and arrangements, are subject to uncertainty due to investigations by various government authorities and related private litigation. The legislatures of various states may adopt new laws addressing contingent commission arrangements, including laws prohibiting such arrangements, and addressing disclosures of these arrangements to insureds. Various state departments of insurance may also adopt new regulations addressing these matters. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of the government inquiries and investigations into the insurance industry’s commission payment practices or the response by the market and government regulators, any material decrease in our profit-sharing contingent commissions is likely to have an adverse effect on our results from operations. OUR FAILURE TO PROTECT OUR MEMBERS’ AND CUSTOMERS’ DATA COULD ADVERSLY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL POSITION AND OPERATIONS BY DAMAGING OUR REPUTATION, HARMING OUR BUSINESS AND CAUSING US TO EXPEND CAPITAL AND OTHER RESOURCES TO PROTECT AGAINST FUTURE SECURITY BREACHES. Certain of our services are based upon the collection, distribution, and protection of sensitive private data. Unauthorized users might access that data, and human error or technological failures might cause the wrongful dissemination of that data. If we experience a security breach, the integrity of certain of our services may be affected and such a breach could violate certain of our marketing partner agreements, which could give our marketing partners the right to terminate such agreements with us. We have incurred, and may incur in the 25 Table of Contents future, significant costs to protect against the threat of a security breach. We may also incur significant costs to solve problems that may be caused by future breaches or to prevent such breaches. Any breach or perceived breach could subject us to legal claims from our marketing partners or customers and/or regulatory or law enforcement entities under laws that govern the protection of non-public personal information. Moreover, any public perception that we have engaged in the unauthorized release of, or have failed to adequately protect, private information could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain members and customers. In addition, unauthorized third parties might alter information in our databases that could adversely affect both our ability to market our services and the credibility of our information. THE FAILURE OF OUR NETWORK MARKETING ORGANIZATION TO COMPLY WITH FEDERAL AND STATE REGULATION COULD RESULT IN ENFORCEMENT ACTION AND IMPOSITION OF PENALTIES, MODIFICATION OF OUR NETWORK MARKETING SYSTEM, AND NEGATIVE PUBLICITY. Our network marketing organization is subject to federal and state laws and regulations administered by the Federal Trade Commission and various state agencies. These laws and regulations include securities, franchise investment, business opportunity and criminal laws prohibiting the use of “pyramid” or “endless chain” types of selling organizations. These regulations are generally directed at ensuring that product and service sales are ultimately made to consumers (as opposed to other marketing representatives) and that advancement within the network marketing organization is based on sales of products and services, rather than on investment in the company or other non-retail sales related criteria. The compensation structure of a network marketing organization is very complex. Compliance with all of the applicable regulations and laws is uncertain because of: • the evolving interpretations of existing laws and regulations, and • the enactment of new laws and regulations pertaining in general to network marketing organizations and product and service distribution. Accordingly, there is the risk that our network marketing system could be found to not comply with applicable laws and regulations that could: • result in enforcement action and imposition of penalty, • require modification of the marketing representative network system, • result in negative publicity, or • have a negative effect on distributor morale and loyalty. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations as well as our financial condition. THE LEGALITY OF OUR NETWORK MARKETING ORGANIZATION IS SUBJECT TO CHALLENGE BY OUR MARKETING REPRESENTATIVES, WHICH COULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT DEFENSE COSTS, SETTLEMENT PAYMENTS OR JUDGMENTS, AND COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Our network marketing organization is subject to legality challenge by our marketing representatives, both individually and as a class. Generally, these challenges would be based on claims that our marketing network program was operated as an illegal “pyramid scheme” in violation of federal securities laws, state unfair practice and fraud laws and the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. Proceedings resulting from these claims could result in significant defense costs, settlement payments, or judgments, and could have a material adverse effect on us. 26 Table of Contents THE ADVERTISING AND PROMOTIONAL ACTIVITIES OF OUR INDEPENDENT MARKETING REPRESENTATIVES AND PRIVATE-LABEL CUSTOMERS ARE SUBJECT TO AND MAY VIOLATE FEDERAL AND STATE REGULATION CAUSING US TO BE SUBJECT TO THE IMPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES, FINES, INJUNCTIONS AND LOSS OF STATE LICENSES. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and most states regulate advertising, product claims, and other consumer matters, including advertising of our healthcare savings products. All advertising, promotional and solicitation materials used by our independent marketing representatives and private label customers must be approved by us prior to use. We are currently under investigation by the Texas Attorney General as a result of the activities of one of our private label customers, with whom we have terminated our relationship. While we have not been the target of FTC enforcement action for the advertising of, or product claims related to, our healthcare savings products, there can be no assurance that the FTC will not question our advertising or other operations in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that a state, in addition to Texas, will not interpret our product claims presumptively valid under federal law as illegal under that state’s regulations, or that future FTC regulations or decisions will not restrict the permissible scope of the claimed savings. We are subject to the risk of claims by our independent marketing representatives and private label customers and members of our Care Entreetm programs and those under private label arrangements may file actions on their own behalf, as a class or otherwise, and may file complaints with the FTC or state or local consumer affairs offices. These agencies may take action on their own initiative against us for alleged advertising or product claim violations. These actions may include consent decrees and the refund of amounts paid by the complaining members, refunds to an entire class of independent marketing representatives, private label customers or members, or other damages, as well as changes in our method of doing business. A complaint because of a practice of one independent marketing representative or private label customer, whether or not that practice was authorized by us, could result in an order affecting some or all of our independent marketing representatives and private label customers in the particular state, and an order in one state could influence courts or government agencies in other states considering similar matters. Proceedings resulting from these complaints may result in significant defense costs, settlement payments or judgments and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. WE MAY HAVE EXPOSURE AND LIABILITY RELATING TO NON-COMPLIANCE WITH THE HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 1996 AND THE COST OF COMPLIANCE COULD BE MATERIAL. In April 2003 privacy regulations were promulgated by The Department of Health and Human Services pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”). HIPAA imposes extensive restrictions on the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information by certain entities. Also as part of HIPAA, the Department of Health and Human Services has issued final regulations standardizing electronic transactions between health plans, providers and clearinghouses. Healthcare plans, providers and claims administrators are required to conform their electronic and data processing systems to HIPAA electronic transaction requirements. While we believe we are currently compliant with these regulations, we cannot be certain of the extent to which the enforcement or interpretation of these regulations will affect our business. Our continuing compliance with these regulations, therefore, may have a significant impact on our business operations and may be at material cost in the event we are subject to these regulations. Sanctions for failing to comply with standards issued pursuant to HIPAA include criminal and civil sanctions. DISRUPTIONS IN OUR OPERATIONS DUE TO OUR RELIANCE ON OUR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM MAY OCCUR AND COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS. We manage certain information related to our Consumer Plan Division membership on an administrative proprietary information system. Because it is a proprietary system, we do not rely on any third party for its support and maintenance. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue operating without experiencing any disruptions in our operations or that our relationships with our members, marketing 27 Table of Contents representatives or providers will not be adversely affected or that our internal controls will not be adversely affected. WE HAVE MANY COMPETITORS AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY WHICH MAY LEAD TO A LACK OF REVENUES AND DISCONTINUANCE OF OUR OPERATIONS. We compete with numerous well-established companies that design and implement membership programs and other healthcare programs. Some of our competitors may be companies that have programs that are functionally similar or superior to our programs. Most of our competitors possess substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than us. They may also have established reputations relating to their programs. Due to competitive market forces, we may experience price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in the future, any of which would result in decreases in sales and revenues. These decreases in revenues would adversely affect our business and results of operations and could lead to discontinuance of operations. There can be no assurance that: • we will be able to compete successfully; • our competitors will not develop programs that render our programs less marketable or even obsolete; or • we will be able to successfully enhance our programs when necessary. THE RECORDED GOODWILL ASSOCIATED WITH OUR ACQUISITIONS OF CAPELLA, ICM AND PME MAY BECOME IMPAIRED AND REQUIRE A SUBSTANTIAL WRITE-DOWN AND THE RECOGNITION OF AN IMPAIRMENT EXPENSE. In connection with our acquisitions of Capella, Foresight, ICM and PME, we recorded goodwill that had a net aggregate asset value of $5,489,000 at December 31, 2007. This carrying value has been reduced through impairment charges of $12,069,000 in 2007, $6,440,000 in 2006, and $12,900,000 in 2005. In the event that the goodwill is determined to be further impaired for any reason, we will be required to write-down or reduce the value of the goodwill and recognize an additional impairment expense. The impairment expense may be substantial in amount and, in such case, adversely affect the results of our operations for the applicable period and may negatively affect the market value of our common stock. WE MAY FIND IT DIFFICULT TO INTEGRATE ICM’S AND PME’S BUSINESSES AND OPERATIONS WITH OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. Although we believe that ICM’s marketing and distribution of insurance products and financial services will complement and fit well with our business and the need for marketing of our healthcare savings programs and third-party claims administration services, Insurance Marketing’s business is relatively new to us. Our unfamiliarity with this business may make it more difficult to integrate ICM’s operations with ours. We will not achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger-acquisition unless we successfully integrate ICM’s operations. There can be no assurance that this will occur. Similarly, we believe that PME’s marketing and distribution of dental and vision network access and non-insurance medical discount programs will complement and fit well with our Consumer Plan Division. We will not achieve the anticipated benefits of that acquisition unless we successfully integrate the PME operations. There can be no assurance that this will occur. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THIRD-PARTY SERVICE PROVIDERS AND THE FAILURE OF SUCH SERVICE PROVIDERS TO ADEQUATELY PROVIDE SERVICES TO US COULD AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS BECAUSE SUCH FAILURE COULD AFFECT OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR CUSTOMERS. As a cost efficiency measure, we have entered into agreements with third parties for their provision of services to us in exchange for a monthly fee normally calculated on a per member basis. These services 28 Table of Contents include the enrollment of members through different media, operation of a member-services call center, claims administration, billing and collection services, and the production and distribution of fulfillment member marketing materials. One of these is our agreement with Lifeguard Emergency Travel, Inc. (“Lifeguard”) for the provision of these services to many of our members and prospective members. We are also dependent upon third-party data processing and administrative service providers for the processing of commission revenue and expense for our Insurance Marketing Division. As a result of these outsourcing arrangements, we may lose direct control over key functions and operations. The failure by Lifeguard or any of our other third-party service providers to perform the services to the same or similar level of quality that we could provide could adversely affect our relationships with our members, customers, marketing representatives and our ability to retain and attract members, customers, marketing representatives and, accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we are transitioning the services provided to us by Lifeguard to systems that we now own or manage as a result of our acquisition of PME, we will remain dependent on Lifeguard for certain services until that transition is complete and for the accurate completion of the transition. THE AVAILABILITY OF OUR INSURANCE PRODUCTS AND FINANCIAL SERVICES ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS WITH VARIOUS INSURANCE COMPANIES AND THE UNAVAILABILITY OF THOSE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES FOR ANY REASON MAY RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT LOSS OF REVENUES. We are not an insurance company and only market and distribute insurance products and financial services developed and offered by insurance companies. We must develop and maintain relationships with insurance companies that provide products and services for a particular market segment (the elderly, the young family, etc.) that we in turn make available to the independent agents with whom they have contracted to sell the products and services to the individual consumer. Of the eight insurance companies with whom our Insurance Marketing Division has strategic relationships, more than 85% of Insurance Marketing’s 2007 revenue and 95% of ICM’s 2006 and 2005 revenue was attributable to the insurance products and financial services offered by five of the companies. Thus, we are dependent on a relatively small number of insurance companies to provide product and financial services for sale through our channels. Development and maintenance of relationships with the insurance companies may in part be based on professional relationships and the reputation of our management and marketing personnel. Consequently, the relationships with insurance companies may be adversely affected by events beyond our control, including departures of key personnel and alterations in professional relationships. Our success and growth depend in large part upon our ability to establish and maintain these strategic relationships, contractual or otherwise, with various insurance companies to provide their products and services, including those insurance products and financial services that may be developed in the future. The loss or termination of these strategic relationships could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Furthermore, the loss or termination may also impair our ability to maintain and attract new insurance agencies and their agents to distribute the insurance products and services that we offer. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON INDEPENDENT INSURANCE AGENCIES AND THEIR AGENTS TO OFFER AND SELL OUR INSURANCE PRODUCTS AND FINANCIAL SERVICES. We are principally dependent upon independent insurance agencies and their agents to offer and sell the insurance products and financial services that we offer and distribute. These insurance agencies and their agents may offer and distribute insurance products and financial services that are competitive with ours. These independent agencies and their agents may give higher priority and greater incentives (financial or otherwise) to other insurance products or financial services, reducing their efforts devoted to marketing and distribution of the insurance products and financial services that we offer. Also, our ability to attract and retain independent insurance agencies could be negatively affected by adverse publicity relating to our products and services or our operations. Furthermore, of the approximately 5,000 independent agents with whom our Insurance Marketing Division has active distribution and marketing relationships, more than 80% of Insurance Marketing’s revenues 29 Table of Contents are attributable to the product sales and financial services through approximately 1,000 independent insurance agents. These agents report through approximately 20 independent general agencies. Thus, we are dependent on a small number of independent insurance agencies for a very significant percentage of our total insurance products and financial services revenue. Development and maintenance of the relationships with independent insurance agencies and their agents may in part be based on professional relationships and the reputation of our management and marketing personnel. Consequently, these relationships may be adversely affected by events beyond our control, including departures of key personnel and alterations in professional relationships. The loss of a significant number of the independent insurance agencies (and their agents), as well as the loss of a key agency or its agents, for any reason, could adversely affect our revenue and operating results, or could impair our ability to establish new relationships or continue strategic relationships with independent insurance agencies and their agents. WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE MARKETPLACE FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AS WELL AS COMPETITION FOR INSURANCE AGENCIES AND THEIR AGENTS FOR THE MARKETING OF THE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES OFFERED. Instead of utilizing captive or wholly-owned insurance agencies for the offer and sale of our products and services, we utilize independent insurance agencies and their agents as the principal marketing and distribution channel. Competition for independent insurance agencies and their agents is intense. Also, competition from products and services similar to or directly in competition with the products and services that we offer is intense, including those products and services offered and sold through the same channels utilized for distribution of our insurance products and financial services. Under arrangements with the independent insurance agencies, the agencies and their agents may offer and sell a variety of insurance products and financial services, including those that compete with the insurance products and financial services that we offer. Thus, our business operations compete in two channels of competition. First, we compete based upon the insurance products and financial services offered. This competition includes products and services of insurance companies that compete with the products and services of the insurance companies that we offer and sell. Second, we compete with all types of marketing and distribution companies throughout the U.S. for independent insurance agencies and their agents. Many of our competitors have substantially larger bases of insurance companies providing products and services, and longer-term established relationships with independent insurance agencies and agents for the sale and distribution of products and services, as well as greater financial and other resources. There is no assurance that our competitors will not provide insurance products and financial services comparable or superior to those products and services that we offer at lower costs or prices, greater sales incentives (financial or otherwise) or adapt more quickly to evolving insurance industry trends or changing industry requirements. Increased competition may result in reduced margins on product sales and services, less than anticipated sales or reduced sales, and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. ON AUGUST 19, 2007, PETER W. NAUERT, OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, ON WHOM WE WERE HIGHLY DEPENDENT, PASSED AWAY AND THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE LOSS OF HIS SERVICES ARE CURRENTLY INDETERMINABLE. We were highly dependent upon Peter W. Nauert, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. Mr. Nauert’s management skills, reputation and contacts within the insurance industry were key elements of our business plans. Mr. Nauert passed away August 19, 2007 after a brief illness. The ultimate effect and consequences of the loss of Mr. Nauert’s services are not currently determinable. The loss of Mr. Nauert’s management skills, reputation and insurance industry contacts may adversely affect the growth and success we expect to obtain from our merger with ICM. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We do not have any pending unresolved comments with the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 