ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Affecting Future Operating Results Because of our reliance on significant customers and large orders, any failure to obtain a sufficient number of large contracts could have a material adverse effect on our revenues for one or more periods A significant portion of our revenue comes from large financial commitments by a small number of customers, including both telecommunications carriers and large enterprises. We expect to continue to depend on a limited number of customers in any given period for a significant portion of our revenue and, in turn, to be dependent on their continuing success and positive financial results and condition. These large customers may result from one-time competitive procurements or from repeat purchases from distributors, OEMs or other strategic partners. We may not prevail in one or more of the procurements, and our distributors may increase or suspend purchases of our products and services at any time. If we fail to continue to receive orders from such customers, or if any one or more of these customers suffers a downturn, our financial results will suffer. Our revenues and liquidity also may vary significantly from quarter to quarter based upon the delivery schedules of our large contracts, particularly extensions or delays in the delivery schedule arising from customer decisions or requirements. -22- Our products must be continuously updated to work with changing technology and demand for our products could be impacted by any competitors introducing more advanced technology To maintain and improve demand for our products, we must continue to develop and introduce value-added, timely and cost-effective new products, features and services that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. Any failure to do this will limit the market into which we can sell our products and services. We have recently introduced new software products such as Parent Patrol™ and are pursuing the development of others. These products have not yet achieved market acceptance. Further, customers are always looking for the most advanced technology available, within certain price ranges. To the extent that competitors can offer more advanced technology within a given price range our sales would be adversely affected. Further, customer technology upgrades can lead to sometimes lengthy delays in orders for our products until their system upgrades are complete and they are in a position to have our products installed as part of their new systems. The adverse conditions in the telecommunications industry continue despite improvements in the economy and may continue to do so Our business and financial results are highly dependent on the telecommunications industry and the capital spending of our customers. Over the past four or five years capital spending by telecommunication companies has been at reduced levels. Telecommunications products and services have increasingly become commodities that cannot easily be distinguished, leading to lower margins and reduced spending on costly software. The reduction of spending by companies in the telecommunication industries has caused, and may continue to cause, a significant reduction in our revenues. Although over the past fiscal year we experienced an increase in demand from certain types of customers, other areas of our business have experienced continued weakness in demand and unwillingness of customers to spend significant sums on procuring new Convergent Mediation™ or OSS solutions products or services. Unless we continue to maintain existing strategic alliances and develop new ones, our sales will suffer Our results could suffer further if we are unable to maintain existing and develop additional strategic alliances with leading providers of telecommunications services and network equipment who serve as distributors for our products. If we are not able to maintain these strategic alliances, we will not be able to expand our distribution channels and provide additional exposure for our product offerings. These relationships can take significant periods of time and work to develop, and may require the development of additional products or features or the offering of support services we do not presently offer. Failure to maintain particular relationships may limit our access to certain countries or geographic areas unless we are able to enter into new relationships with companies that can offer improved access. Many of our telecommunications customers involve credit risks for us Many of our customers present potential credit risks, and we are dependent on a small number of major customers. The majority of our customers are in the telecommunication services industry and government sector, or are in the early stages of development when financial resources may be limited. Five customers represented 61% of our gross trade receivables balance as of June 30, 2006. Because we depend on a small number of major customers, and many of our customers present potential credit risks for different reasons, our results of operations could be adversely affected by non-payment or slow-payment of receivables. We have also experienced losses from doubtful accounts. For a more detailed discussion of doubtful accounts please read the section labeled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Allowance for Bad Debts.” Several of our international customers have negotiated extended payment terms, further separating the time payment is received from when costs are incurred. We have experienced liquidity demands as a result of large contracts We have been experiencing increased costs and liquidity demands during the current fiscal year as we have devoted significant effort to delivering products and services and supporting our customers under our existing contracts. Although these increased liquidity demands have started to subside as we have collected initial amounts generated under these contracts we expect this situation to continue for a while. -23- We are dependent on our ability to borrow We are dependent on our ability to borrow funds under our lines of credit. Any inability to borrow could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, our borrowings under our lines of credit are dependent upon our eligible and approved accounts receivable. In the event of an inability to borrow, we would require additional financing and the additional financing may not be available or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. The amounts of borrowings under our lines of credit have been increasing as a result of our liquidity demands, discussed in the prior paragraph, to $2.6 million as of June 30, 2006. We are increasingly subject to the risks and costs of international sales, and failure to manage these risks would have an adverse effect on us A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from international sales and are therefore subject to the risks of conducting business overseas, including the general economic conditions in each country, the overlap of different tax structures, the difficulty in managing resources in various countries, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, foreign currency translations and longer payment cycles. We derived approximately 57%, 69%, and 59% of our total revenue from customers outside of the United States for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. To the extent that we have increased our international revenue sources over the last three years, the impact of the risks related to international sales could have an increasingly larger effect on our financial condition as a whole. Failure to manage risks of potential acquisitions would have an adverse effect on us We have completed three significant acquisitions over the past two and half years, and pursuing additional acquisitions to expand our product line remains part of our growth plan. However, acquisitions involve a number of potential adverse consequences. In particular, failure to identify or evaluate risks such as possible loss of major customers, or inability to correctly evaluate costs of combining businesses or technologies have in the past and in the future could cost us significant resources, dilution to our stockholders or loss of valuable time. In addition, recent acquisitions have included expenses associated with in process research and development and require us to absorb the cost of completion of ongoing product development. Failure to complete product development on time and within projected cost estimates would have an adverse affect on operating results and potentially decrease the value of the acquisition. Acquisitions may require additional financing and the additional financing may not be available or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Continuing market consolidation may reduce the number of potential customers for our products The North American communications industry has experienced significant consolidation. In the future, there may be fewer potential customers requiring operations support systems and related services, increasing the level of competition in the industry. In addition, larger, consolidated communication companies have strengthened their purchasing power, which could create a decline in our pricing structure and a decrease of the margins we can realize. These larger consolidated companies are also striving to streamline their operations by combining different communications systems and the related operations support systems into one system, reducing the number of vendors needed. The continuing industry consolidation may cause us to lose more customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market consolidation within the UK service provider market has reduced the number of customers for our products and has begun to erode our existing customer base within this group. Failure to replace these customers will have a negative impact upon future operating results. Failure to estimate accurately the resources necessary to complete fixed-price contracts would have an adverse effect on our bottom line Our failure to accurately estimate the resources required for a project or a failure to complete contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the projected plan may result in lower than expected project margins or project losses, which would negatively impact operating results. Our sales are formalized in agreements that may include customization of the underlying software and services. These agreements require projections related to allocation of employees and other resources. Additionally, we may fix the price of an arrangement before the final requirements are finalized. On occasion, we have and may be required in the future to commit unanticipated additional resources to complete projects, and the estimated fixed price may not include this unanticipated increase of resources. If our original projections are not met, project losses may occur that would have a negative impact on our operating results. -24- Inability to forecast revenue accurately may result in costs that are out of line with revenues, leading either to additional losses or downsizing that may not have been necessary We may not be able to accurately forecast the timing of our revenue recognition due to the difficulty of anticipating compliance with the accounting requirements for revenue recognition and to the fact that we historically have generated a disproportionate amount of our operating revenues toward the end of each quarter. Our operating results historically have varied from fiscal period to fiscal period. Accordingly, our financial results in any particular fiscal period are not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. 