Item 1A Risk Factors. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the information incorporated by reference herein, contains various forward-looking statements and information that are based on our beliefs and assumptions, as well as information currently available to us. From time to time, we and our officers, directors or employees may make other oral or written statements (including statements in press releases or other announcements) that contain forward-looking statements and information. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the words “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “seek,” “will result,” “will continue,” “project” and similar expressions, when used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in such other statements, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although some statements may use other phrasing. All statements that express expectations and projections with respect to future matters, including, without limitation, statements relating to growth, new lines of business, expectations of the business environment in which we operate, perceived opportunities in the market, our mission and strategy, and general optimism about future operating results, are forward-looking statements and speak only as of the date made. All forward-looking statements and information in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, as amended, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbors created thereby. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from historical results or from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, without limitation, the risk factors set forth below. These factors are not intended to be an all-encompassing list of risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of our business. Many of such factors are beyond our ability to control or predict, and readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. In providing forward-looking statements, we expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise these statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise except to the extent required by law. An investment in our common stock is speculative in nature and involves a high degree of risk. No investment in the Company’s common stock should be made by any person who is not in a position to lose the entire amount of such investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses, and we must successfully execute on our modified business model and restructuring plan if we are to sustain our operations. We have incurred losses from continuing operations in the last several fiscal years. We reported net losses from continuing operations of $16.6 million and $0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and nine months ended 2006, respectively. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2007 was $52.0 million. Our ability to operate profitably is dependent upon our ability to develop and market our products in an economically successful manner. To date, we have not consistently done so. No assurances can be given that we will be able to operate profitably in the future. In the first part of 2007, we determined that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances and cash from operations would not be sufficient to fund our operations, planned capital and research and development expenditures for the next twelve months ( See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” below in Item 7). Accordingly, we restructured our operations to focus on our core business of population healthcare management where we are not at-risk for provider claims. The 11 restructuring actions included certain office space consolidation and staff reductions, including the ceasing of operations at our facility in Rochester, New York in the third quarter of 2007. As a result of these initiatives, we have reduced our workforce by approximately 75 full-time employees with annual salaries and benefits in excess of $3.4 million. We recognized expenses of approximately $1.8 million related to restructuring initiatives undertaken during the year ended December 31, 2007. Where possible, we have reduced our employee count through attrition or, when appropriate, reassigned employees to other open positions. Although we believe that if the actions taken under our restructuring plan are successful, our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, cash from operations and the remaining commitments from existing investors to purchase additional shares of our Series A preferred stock in 2008 will be sufficient to fund our operations in the near term, planned capital and research and development expenditures in our focused business model, we recognize that our ability to continue as a going concern depends upon our successful execution of our restructuring plan and other business initiatives. However, as described elsewhere in this annual report, we have outstanding indebtedness that will mature between September 2008 and January 2009, and we do not believe that we will be able to satisfy our obligations under these debt facilities from operating cash. As a result, we expect that we will need to restructure or refinance these facilities, or extend their maturity dates, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We might fail to operate successfully under our modified business model. At January 31, 2007, we exited the at-risk, capitated line of business wherein we were financially responsible for the payment of provider claims. The modification of our business model entails significant risks and costs, and we might not succeed in operating within this model for many reasons. These reasons include the risks that we might not be able to achieve market acceptance for our products and services, earn adequate revenues from population healthcare management, or achieve sustained profitability. Employee concern about changes in our business model or the effect of such changes on their workloads or continued employment might cause our employees to seek or accept other employment, depriving us of the human and intellectual capital that we need in order to succeed. Because we necessarily lack historical operating and financial results for our modified business model, it will be difficult for us, as well as for investors, to predict or evaluate our business prospects and performance. Our business prospects would need to be considered in light of the uncertainties and difficulties frequently encountered by companies undergoing a business transition or in the early stages of development. The modification of our business model might also create uncertainties and cause our stock price to fall and impair our ability to raise additional capital. We might not be able to execute under our business strategy if we lose key management or technical personnel, on whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise we rely. Our success under our modified business model will depend heavily upon the contributions of our key management and technical personnel, whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. Many of these individuals have developed specialized knowledge and skills relating to our technology and lines of business. We might not be able to execute on our modified business model if we were to lose the services of some of our key personnel. If any of these individuals were to leave our company unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successor develops the necessary training and experience. The contracts with our largest customer were terminated effective January 31, 2007. Our capitated contracts with Aetna Health Plans (“Aetna”), which accounted for 14% and 66% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 and the nine months ended December 31, 2006, respectively, were terminated effective January 31, 2007. As Aetna retained certain of these revenues to pay claims on our behalf, these contracts accounted for 43% of the total cash inflows for the nine months ended December 31, 2006. As a result of this termination, there has been significant pressure on our ability to generate sufficient revenues and cash flow to maintain or grow our operations. If we cannot generate sufficient revenues and cash flows, we may be forced to curtail operations to some extent. No assurances can be given that we will be able to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows to maintain our current level of operations. 12 Our current liabilities exceed our current assets. As of December 31, 2007, our current assets were $4.9 million compared to current liabilities of $7.6 million. As described above under “—We have a history of losses, and we must successfully execute on our modified business model and restructuring plan if we are to sustain our operations,” we have outstanding indebtedness that will mature between September 2008 and January 2009. No assurance can be given that we will be able to raise required working capital through the sale of our securities or by borrowing any additional amounts needed. If we are unable to identify additional sources of capital, we would likely be forced to curtail our operations. Moreover, if we raise additional financing through the sale of our equity securities, any stock that we issue would be dilutive to our existing stockholders and could result in material adverse changes to our earnings per share. In addition, in the event that we are successful in obtaining alternative debt financing, any such debt could impose significant financial and operating restrictions on us. We may be unable to repay our line of credit upon its maturity. We have a line of credit with a bank that is fully borrowed against in the principal amount of $8.0 million. We have also borrowed an additional $500,000 from the same lender under another credit facility. The $500,000 principal amount is due in September 2008 and the $8.0 million principal amount under the line of credit is due in January 2009. We anticipate that these loans will not be able to be repaid out of our current operating cash flows. We may need to extend or restructure these credit facilities or raise additional capital through sales of securities or additional borrowings in order to satisfy our obligations. We may be obligated to pay additional amounts in connection with our acquisition of Haelan Corporation. Under the merger agreement by which we acquired our subsidiary Haelan Corporation in December 2006, we have a contingent obligation to the former Haelan shareholders to pay up to $3.0 million in the event that Haelan’s revenues for 2007 exceed certain agreed-upon thresholds. We have completed our preliminary calculation of this "earn-out" liability, which we estimate to be approximately $180,000. Under the merger agreement, the securityholders' representative for the former Haelan shareholders objected to our calculation and requested additional information in order to determine the amounts owed. No assurances can be given that the securityholders' representative will ultimately agree with our calculation of the earn-out payment. If the amount continues to be disputed, we may be required to pay additional amounts in satisfaction of this obligation. To the extent that additional amounts are paid, such amounts will be recorded to goodwill and evaluated for impairment in accordance with our normal impairment testing process. The additional amounts could cause an impairment of goodwill, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and could fluctuate in the future. Our operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • volume and timing of sales; • rates at which customers move from traditional disease management to the total population health management approach now inherent in our model; • rates at which customers implement disease and care management and other health information programs within their patient populations; • impacts of substantial divestitures and acquisitions; • loss or addition of customers and referral sources; • seasonal fluctuations in healthcare utilization; • investments required to support growth and expansion; • changes in the mix of products and customers; • changes in healthcare reimbursement policies and amounts; • increases in direct sales costs and operating expenses; • increases in selling, general and administrative expenses; • increased or more effective competition; and • regulatory changes. Any of the above could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. 13 If we do not manage our growth successfully, our growth may slow, decline or stop, and we may never become profitable. We have expanded our operations rapidly and plan to continue to expand, particularly in connection with integration of recently acquired businesses. This expansion has created significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial personnel and other resources. Additional expansion in existing or new markets could strain resources and increase our need for capital. Our personnel, systems, procedures, controls and existing space may not be adequate to support further expansion. In addition, because our business strategy emphasizes growth, the failure to achieve our stated growth objectives or the growth expectations of investors could cause our stock price to decline. Our current product and service offerings may not be accepted in the marketplace. As described elsewhere in this annual report, we have exited our capitated risk business. As part of our transition to ASO or fee-based contracts, we have developed an integrated product offering designed to be the next generation of care and disease management. Our integrated product and service offerings incorporate a number of features, such as predictive modeling, health coaching, technology, and customized service levels to deliver care management services while attempting to reduce healthcare costs for our customers. At this time, we believe that integrated services of the type we are offering have not gained general acceptance from our customers and potential customers. This is still perceived to be a new business concept in an industry characterized by an increasing number of market entrants who have introduced or are developing an array of new services. As is typical in the case of a new business concept, demand and market acceptance for newly introduced services are subject to a high level of uncertainty, and there can be no assurance as to the ultimate level of market acceptance for our system, especially in the healthcare industry, in which the containment of costs is emphasized. Because of the subjective nature of patient compliance, we may be unable, for an extensive period of time, to develop a significant amount of data to demonstrate to potential customers the effectiveness of our services. Even after such time, no assurances can be given that our data and results will be convincing or determinative as to the success of our system. There can be no assurance that our marketing efforts and the effective implementation of our strategies will result in market acceptance for our services or that a market for our services will develop or not be limited. Our agreements with our customers may be terminated by our customers on relatively short notice. Our current services agreements with our customers generally automatically renew but may be terminated by those customers without cause upon notice of between 30 and 90 days. In general, customer contracts may include significant performance criteria and implementation schedules for us. Failure to satisfy such criteria or meet such schedules could also result in termination of the agreements. The success of our programs is highly dependent on the accuracy of information provided by members. Our ability to monitor and modify patient behavior and to provide information to healthcare providers and payors, and consequently the success of our disease and care management systems, is dependent upon the accuracy of information received from patients. We have not taken, and do not expect to take, specific measures to determine the accuracy of information provided to us by patients regarding their medical histories. No assurance can be given that the information our patients provide us will be accurate. To the extent that patients have chosen not to comply with prescribed treatments, such patients might provide inaccurate information to avoid detection. Because of the subjective nature of medical treatment, it will be difficult for us to validate or confirm any such information. In the event that patients enrolled in our programs provide inaccurate information to a significant degree, we would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our patient interventions will be successful in modifying patient behavior, improving patient health or reducing costs in any given case. Many potential customers may seek data from us with respect to the results of its programs prior to retaining us to develop new disease management or other health information programs. Our ability to market our system to new customers may be limited if we are unable to demonstrate successful results for our programs. Our business is dependent on data processing and transmission capabilities. Our business is dependent upon its ability to store, retrieve, process and manage data and to maintain and upgrade our data processing capabilities. Interruption of data processing capabilities for any extended length of time, loss of stored data, programming errors, other computer problems or interruptions of telephone service could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm our competitive position. We consider our methodologies, processes and know how to be proprietary. We seek to protect our proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our employees. Our policy is to have employees enter into confidentiality agreements that contain provisions prohibiting the disclosure of confidential information to anyone outside of 14 the company. In addition, the policy requires employees to acknowledge, and, if requested, assist in confirming our ownership of any new ideas, developments, discoveries or inventions conceived during employment, and requires assignment to us of proprietary rights to such matters that are related to our business. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property will be successful. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate our competitive advantage. If our actual financial results vary from any publicly disclosed forecasts, our stock price could decline materially. Our actual financial results might vary from those that we anticipate, and these variations could be material. Publicly disclosed forecasts reflect numerous assumptions concerning expected performance, as well as other factors, which are beyond our control, and which might not turn out to have been correct. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the projections are reasonable, actual results could be materially different, and to the extent actual results are materially different, our stock price could be materially adversely impacted. We depend on payments from our customers, and pressures on these entities to reduce costs may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The healthcare industry in which we operate currently faces significant cost reduction pressures as a result of constrained revenues from governmental and private revenue sources and increasing underlying medical care costs. We believe that these pressures will continue and possibly intensify. Our services are intended specifically to assist our customers in controlling the high costs associated with the treatment of chronic diseases; however, the pressures to reduce costs in the short term may negatively affect our ability to sign and/or retain contracts with our customers. In addition, this focus on cost reduction could cause our customers to focus on contract restructurings that would reduce the fees paid to us for our services. As a result, these financial pressures could have a negative impact on our operations. Our inability to perform well under our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our growth strategy focuses on developing health and care support programs to address chronic diseases and medical conditions as well as the overall health of all enrollees of a payor. While we have considerable experience in health and care support programs with a broad range of medical conditions, any new or modified programs will involve inherent risks of execution. If we do not perform well under our contracts, or if one or more of our customers perceive that we do not perform adequately, our business reputation and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. The profitability of certain of our contracts is dependent upon the type and number of cases that we process. We have entered into service agreements with certain health plans under which we assist the plans with complex care management services for its customers in exchange for a fee. The profitability of these contracts is dependent upon the number of cases that meet certain criteria for referral to us and agree to receive the service. Although these contracts do not always generate a sufficient volume of cases to make the contracts profitable, if the contracts consistently fail to do so in the future, the fixed costs incurred to service these contracts could exceed the revenue generated from the caseload. There can be no assurance that these contracts will continue to generate the required level of revenue to make the contracts profitable and, if they fail to do so, this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues may be subject to seasonal pressure from the disenrollment processes of its contracted health plans. Employers typically make decisions on which health insurance carriers they will offer to their employees and also may allow employees to switch between health plans on an annual basis. These annual membership disenrollment and re-enrollment processes of employers (whose employees are the health plan members) from health plans can result in a seasonal reduction in actual lives under management in January, during our fourth fiscal quarter. Historically, a majority of employers and employees make these decisions effective December 31 of each year. An employer’s change in health plans or employees’ changes in health plan elections may cause a decrease in actual lives under management for existing contracts as of January 1. Although these decisions may also cause a gain in enrollees as new employers sign on with customers, the identification of new members eligible to participate in our programs, in some products, is based on the submission of healthcare claims, which lags enrollment by an indeterminate period. Another seasonal impact on actual lives could occur if a health plan decided to withdraw coverage altogether for a specific line of business, such as Medicare, or in a specific geographic area, thereby automatically disenrolling previously covered members. Historically, we have experienced minimal covered life disenrollment from such a decision. 15 Risks Related to the Healthcare Industry We are subject to extensive changes in the healthcare industry. The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement practices and operations of healthcare industry participants. Several lawmakers have announced that they intend to propose programs to reform the U.S. healthcare system. These programs may contain proposals to increase governmental involvement in health care, lower reimbursement rates and otherwise change the operating environment for us and our targeted customers. Healthcare industry participants may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding such proposals by curtailing or deferring certain expenditures, including those for our programs. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes in the healthcare industry might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many healthcare providers are consolidating to create larger healthcare delivery enterprises with greater regional market power. As a result, the remaining enterprises could have greater bargaining power, which may lead to price erosion of our programs. Our failure to maintain adequate price levels could have a material adverse effect on our business. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including potential national healthcare reform, trends toward managed care, cuts in Medicare reimbursements, and horizontal and vertical consolidation within the healthcare industry. Our inability to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot predict whether any healthcare reform efforts will be enacted and what effect any such reforms may have on us or our customers. Our inability to react effectively to changes in the healthcare industry could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation. The healthcare industry, including our current business, is subject to extensive regulation by both the Federal and state governments. A number of states have extensive licensing and other regulatory requirements applicable to companies that provide healthcare services. Additionally, services provided to health benefit plans in certain cases are subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and may be affected by other state and Federal statutes. Generally, state laws prohibit the practice of medicine and nursing without a license. Many states interpret the practice of nursing to include health teaching, health counseling, the provision of care supportive to, or restorative of, life and well being and the execution of medical regimens prescribed by a physician. Accordingly, to the extent that we assist providers in improving patient compliance by publishing educational materials or providing behavior modification training to patients, such activities could be deemed by a state to be the practice of medicine or nursing. Although we have not conducted a survey of the applicable law in all 50 states, we believe that we are not engaged in the practice of medicine or nursing. There can be no assurance, however, that our operations will not be challenged as constituting the unlicensed practice of medicine or nursing. If such a challenge were made successfully in any state, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties under such state’s law and could be required to restructure its contractual arrangements in that state. Such results, or the inability to successfully restructure our contractual arrangements, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We and our customers may also be subject to Federal and state laws and regulations that govern financial and other arrangements among healthcare providers. These laws prohibit certain fee splitting arrangements among healthcare providers, as well as direct and indirect payments, referrals or other financial arrangements that are designed to induce or encourage the referral of patients to, or the recommendation of, a particular provider for medical products and services. Possible sanctions for violation of these restrictions include civil and criminal penalties. Further, criminal violations may result in permanent mandatory exclusions and additional permissive exclusions from participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs. Regulation in the healthcare field is constantly evolving. We are unable to predict what government regulations, if any, affecting our business may be promulgated in the future. Our business could be materially adversely affected by the failure to obtain required licenses and governmental approvals, comply with applicable regulations or comply with existing or future laws, rules or regulations or their interpretations. Compliance with new federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations or may require us to spend substantial amounts acquiring and implementing new information systems or modifying existing systems. We and our customers are subject to considerable state and federal government regulation. Many of these regulations are vaguely written and subject to differing interpretations that may, in certain cases, result in unintended consequences that could impact our ability to effectively deliver services. The current focus on regulatory and legislative 16 efforts to protect the confidentiality and security of individually-identifiable health information, as evidenced by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, is one such example. We believe that federal regulations governing the confidentiality of individually-identifiable health information permit us to obtain individually-identifiable health information for health and care support purposes from a health plan customer; however, state legislation or regulation could preempt federal legislation if it is more restrictive. Federal regulations governing the security of electronic individually-identifiable health information became mandatory for customers in April 2005. We are contractually required to comply with certain aspects of these confidentiality and security regulations. Although we continually monitor the extent to which specific state legislation or regulations may govern our operations, new federal or state legislation or regulation in this area that restricts our ability to obtain individually-identifiable health information would have a material negative impact on our operations. Government regulators may interpret current regulations governing our operations in a manner that negatively impacts our ability to provide services. Broadly written Medicare fraud and abuse laws and regulations that are subject to varying interpretations may expose us to potential civil and criminal litigation regarding the structure of current and past contracts entered into with our customers. We believe that our operations have not violated and do not violate the provisions of the fraud and abuse statutes and regulations; however, private individuals acting on behalf of the United States government, or government enforcement agencies themselves, could pursue a claim against us under a new or differing interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Our participation in federal programs may result in our being subject directly to various federal laws and regulations, including provisions related to fraud and abuse, false claims and billing and reimbursement for services, and the False Claims Act. Violations of the False Claims Act are punishable by treble damages and penalties of up to $11,000 per false claim. Actions may be brought under the False Claims Act by the government as well as by private individuals, known as “whistleblowers,” who are permitted to share in any settlement or judgment. Also, federal law contains various prohibitions related to false statements and false claims, some of which apply to private payors as well as federal programs. We face competition for staffing, which may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability. We compete with other healthcare and services providers in recruiting qualified management and staff personnel for the day-to-day operations of our business, including nurses and other healthcare professionals. In some markets, the scarcity of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to healthcare businesses. This shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals. A failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other healthcare professionals, or to control labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We may face costly litigation that could force us to pay damages and harm our reputation. Like other participants in the healthcare market, we are subject to lawsuits alleging negligence, product liability or other similar legal theories, many of which involve large claims and significant defense costs. Any of these claims, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, and divert the time, attention, and resources of management. Although we currently maintain liability insurance intended to cover such claims, there can be no assurance that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate or that all such claims will be covered by the insurance. In addition, these insurance policies must be renewed annually. Although we have been able to obtain liability insurance, such insurance may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. A successful claim in excess of the insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We could share in potential liability resulting from adverse medical consequences of patients. We provide information to healthcare providers and managed care organizations upon which determinations affecting medical care are made. As a result, we could share in potential liabilities for resulting adverse medical consequences to patients. In addition, we could have potential legal liability in the event we fail to correctly record or disseminate patient information. We maintain an errors and omissions insurance policy with coverage of $5 million in the aggregate and per occurrence. Although we do not believe that we will directly engage in the practice of medicine or direct delivery of medical services and have not been a party to any such litigation, we maintain a professional liability policy with coverage of $5 million in the aggregate and per occurrence. There can be no assurance that our procedures for limiting liability have been or will be effective, that we will not be subject to litigation that may adversely affect our results of operations, that appropriate insurance will be available to us in the future at acceptable cost or at all, or that any insurance we maintain will cover, as to scope or amount, any claims that may be made against us. 17 Risks Related to our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be highly volatile. From January 26, 2006, being the first trading date subsequent to the PATY Merger, until May 6, 2008, the range of our stock price has been between $1.53 and $0.05. Factors including announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operating results, government regulation, or developments or disputes relating to agreements or proprietary rights may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, potential dilutive effects of future sales of shares of our common stock us, our stockholders, or the holders of warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Stockholders affiliated with our directors own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock, and shares of preferred stock convertible into common stock, and will be able to exercise significant influence over our operations. Our directors, funds affiliated with our directors, and other holders of at least 10% of our common stock currently own approximately 70% of our voting stock in aggregate, excluding shares subject to outstanding options and warrants and outstanding preferred stock. These stockholders are able to determine the composition of our board of directors, retain the voting power to approve all matters requiring stockholder approval and will continue to have significant influence over our operations. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company, preventing or frustrating any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove the current management, or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the company, which in turn could limit the market value of our common stock. In addition, between December 2007 and May 6, 2008 we have issued 4,687,500 shares of preferred stock to certain of our existing investors, all of whom are directors or funds affiliated with our directors or holders of greater than 10% of our common stock. We anticipate issuing additional shares of this preferred stock during the second quarter of 2008. Each share of preferred stock is convertible into five shares of common stock, and the terms of the preferred stock provide these investors with additional rights and impact the rights of the holders of our common stock in that we are prohibited from issuing dividends or making distributions to the holders of our common stock for so long as any shares of preferred stock are outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends with respect to the preferred stock have been paid or are declared and set apart, and the holders of the preferred have the right to a liquidation preference with respect to such shares equal to their original purchase price plus all accrued but unpaid dividends in the event of an dissolution, liquidation or winding up of our company or certain acquisition or change of control transactions involving our company. In addition, the holders of the preferred stock generally vote together with the holders of common stock on an as-converted to common stock basis. As a result of this issuance of preferred stock, our significant stockholders have even greater control over our operations. If we issue additional shares of preferred stock to these investors, it would have a further dilutive effect on our shares, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. As a result of our acquisition of Haelan, we may be obligated to issue additional shares of our common stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. As part of our acquisition of Haelan, we issued promissory notes that by their terms may be convertible into shares of our common stock in the event that the average closing price of our common stock exceeds certain levels. In certain circumstances, such payment may be made, at our election, by the issuance of shares of our common stock. In the event that we are required to or otherwise elect to issue shares of our common stock in satisfaction of our obligations to the former Haelan shareholders, any such issuance would be dilutive to our stockholders and could have a material adverse effect on our earnings per share. A large number of shares of our common stock may be sold in the market, which could depress the market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock or our future ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities. As of May 6, 2008, we had an aggregate of 67,538,976 shares of common stock outstanding. If all options and warrants currently outstanding to purchase shares of common stock were to be exercised and if all currently outstanding shares of preferred stock were to be converted into common stock, there would be an aggregate of 101,318,649 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, 77,440,356 shares are held by certain of our directors, officers and other significant stockholders and remain subject to contractual volume limitations on disposition until July 25, 18 2008. The sale and distribution of these shares, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our common stock qualifies as a “penny stock” under SEC rules which may make it more difficult for stockholders to resell their shares of common stock. Our common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the holders of our common stock may find it more difficult to obtain accurate quotations concerning the market value of the stock. Stockholders also may experience greater difficulties in attempting to sell the stock than if it were listed on a stock exchange or quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market or the NASDAQ Capital Market. Because our common stock does not trade on a stock exchange or on the NASDAQ Global Market or the NASDAQ Capital Market, and the market price of the common stock is less than $5.00 per share, the common stock qualifies as a “penny stock.” SEC Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an “established customer” or an “accredited investor.” This includes the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination on the appropriateness of investments in penny stocks for the customer and must make special disclosures to the customer concerning the risks of penny stocks. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock could adversely affect the market liquidity of the shares, which in turn may affect the ability of holders of the common stock to resell the stock. The majority of our assets is comprised of goodwill acquired in acquisitions, which goodwill could become further impaired. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, (“SFAS 142”), we test goodwill annually for impairment each March 31. or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Due to certain conditions present during 2007 (including our 2007 net operating loss, a net decrease in our cash balance and the decline in the market price for our common stock), we performed a goodwill and intangible asset impairment test as of December 31, 2007. As a result of the assessment, an impairment of approximately $7.5 million was recorded as of that date, as our stockholders’ equity was determined to be in excess of our fair value. No assurances can be given that our goodwill as currently recorded will remain unimpaired in the future. The Company is currently performing its annual impairment test as of March 31, 2008. SFAS 142 requires that goodwill be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our fair value below the amount of our stockholders’ equity. Each quarter we will assess whether an impairment test is necessary based on pertinent facts and circumstances. If, as a result of an annual or interim impairment assessment, we determine that total stockholders’ equity exceeds our fair value we would be required to further write down the value of such goodwill on our balance sheet such that the resulting total stockholders’ equity will not exceed our fair value. If we recognize an impairment of goodwill, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 