ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT OUR FUTURE RESULTS RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY We continue to require external financing to fund our operations, which may not be available. Our current cash reserves provide us with sufficient cash to fund our operations into the first quarter of 2010. We will need additional sources of cash to fund the development and eventual marketing and sales of our psoriasis product, Femprox®, and Vitaros® in territories outside of the U.S. We intend to seek development partners to advance our products under development because we will also need significant funding to pursue our overall product development plans. In general, products we plan to develop will require significant time-consuming and costly research and development, clinical testing, regulatory approval and significant investment prior to their commercialization. Even if we are successful in obtaining partners who can assume the funding for further development of our products, we may still encounter additional obstacles such as research and development activities may not be successful, our products may not prove to be safe and effective, clinical development work may not be completed, and the anticipated products may not be commercially viable or successfully marketed. In July 2008, Novartis completed testing for the Phase 3 clinical trials for NM100060. The Phase 3 program required for the filing of the NDA in the U.S. for NM100060 consisted of two pivotal, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. The parallel studies were designed to assess the efficacy, safety and tolerability of NM100060 in patients with mild to moderate toenail onychomycosis. Approximately 1,000 patients completed testing in the two studies, which took place in the U.S., Europe, Canada and Iceland. On August 26, 2008, we announced that based on First Interpretable Results of these two Phase 3 studies, Novartis had decided not to submit the NDA at this time. As a result of this decision, we will not receive a $6 million payment for positive Phase 3 results. In addition, a $7 million milestone payment for the filing of the NDA has been postponed indefinitely. Novartis has confirmed that it intends to complete patient testing in the ongoing comparator study which they had initiated in March 2007 in ten European countries. Over 900 patients with mild to moderate onychomycosis are participating in this open-label study, which is designed to assess the safety and tolerability of NM100060 (terbinafine 10% topical formulation) versus Loceryl® (amorolfine) 5% nail lacquer, a topical treatment for onychomycosis that is approved in Europe. The comparator study is expected to be completed by early 2009 and the data will be available in mid-2009. If the results of the comparator study are positive and the total clinical database is deemed to be sufficient for filing, we expect Novartis to begin filing for marketing approval in selected European countries while they develop a new plan of action for the U.S. market. If the results are negative, we expect Novartis to terminate the global licensing agreement, which it can do at any time, and the rights to NM100060 would revert back to us with no compensation for termination. 8 On February 3, 2009, we terminated the licensing agreement and sold the U.S. rights for Vitaros® and the specific U.S. patents covering Vitaros® to Warner. Under the terms of the agreement, we received gross proceeds of $2.5 million as an up-front payment and are eligible to receive an additional payment of $2.5 million upon Warner’s receipt of an NDA approval from the FDA. As such, we are no longer responsible for the regulatory approval of Vitaros® and will no longer be eligible to receive royalties in the future based upon the level of sales achieved by Warner. In addition, Warner will pay a total of $350,000 for the manufacturing equipment for Vitaros®. Our current cash reserves of approximately $4.5 million as of the date of this report, which includes the $2.5 million received from Warner on February 3, 2009, should provide us with sufficient cash to fund our operations into the first quarter of 2010. This projection is based on the restructuring plan we implemented in December 2008 whereby we have reduced our current monthly operating expenditures to $350,000 and plan to further reduce these expenditures to approximately $300,000 per month by the second quarter of 2009. In addition, as part of our restructuring plan, we are discussing with Pii the opportunity to co-develop our early stage products which will enable us to further reduce our monthly overhead expenses and allow us to sell our facility and redundant equipment. We have also initiated efforts to sell the facility housing our corporate office, research and development laboratories and manufacturing plant located in East Windsor, New Jersey. If we can successfully sell our facility and repay the existing mortgage, we should be able to reduce our monthly operating expenditures to approximately $200,000 per month. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to sell our facility at an acceptable price or otherwise successfully complete our restructuring plan. Our principal product under development, NM100060, has not met Novartis’ expectation for filing a New Drug Application in the U.S., and, depending upon European comparator study results, Novartis may terminate its global licensing agreement with us. In September 2005, we announced a global licensing agreement with Novartis, pursuant to which Novartis acquired the exclusive worldwide rights to NM100060, our topical anti-fungal nail treatment product. While Novartis has decided not to submit an NDA for NM100060 to the FDA at this time, it has confirmed that it intends to complete a European comparator study. If positive results are achieved, we expect Novartis to obtain regulatory approval of NM100060 in selected countries in Europe. If the results are negative, we expect Novartis to terminate the global licensing agreement with the rights to NM100060 reverting to us. Our near-term prospects for deriving any return on our investments in NM100060 and Vitaros® are dependent upon decisions to be made by Novartis and Warner in their discretion. We are dependent upon Novartis to complete its European comparator study and obtain regulatory approval in Europe for us to derive any near-term return on our investment in the development of NM100060. While we expect Novartis to do both, it is not required by any agreement with us to do either. For us to derive any near-term return on our investment in the development of Vitaros®, we are dependent upon Warner to move forward in pursuing NDA approval for Vitaros® in the U.S., which it is not required to do. While if Novartis elects to terminate the global licensing agreement, the rights to NM100060 will revert to us, and if we are to derive revenue from NM100060 in the future, we will need to find new development partners. As for Vitaros®, if Warner does not pursue NDA approval for Vitaros®, we will not have the additional data generated by Warner to enhance the value of the product for non-U.S. development partners which may make it more difficult to find such development partners. In either case, it may not be possible for us to enter into such partner relationships in a timely manner, if at all. We will continue to incur operating losses. Our current business operations began in 1994 and we have a limited operating history. We may encounter delays, uncertainties and complications typically encountered by development stage businesses. We have not marketed or generated revenues in the U.S. from our products under development. We are not profitable and have incurred an accumulated deficit of $139,689,300 since our inception and through December 31, 2008. Our ability to generate revenues and to achieve profitability and positive cash flow will depend on the successful licensing or commercialization of our products currently under development. However, even if we eventually generate revenues from sales of our products currently under development or from licensing fees, we expect to incur significant operating losses over the next several years. Our ability to become profitable will depend, among other things, on our (1) development of our proposed products, (2) obtaining of regulatory approvals of our proposed products on a timely basis and (3) success in licensing, manufacturing, distributing and marketing our proposed products. 9 Our independent registered public accounting firm has doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of our losses to date, expected losses in the future, limited capital resources and accumulated deficit, our independent registered public accounting firm has concluded that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, and accordingly, our independent registered public accounting firm has modified their report on our December 31, 2008 consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K in the form of an explanatory paragraph describing the events that have given rise to this uncertainty. These factors may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional funding to meet our obligations. Our continuation is dependent upon our ability to generate or obtain sufficient cash to meet our obligations on a timely basis and ultimately to attain profitable operations. We anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses at least until successful commercialization of one or more of our products, and we may never operate profitably in the future. We will need partnering agreements and significant funding to continue with our research and development efforts, and they may not be available. Our current cash reserves provide us with sufficient cash to fund our operations into the first quarter of 2010. We will need additional sources of cash to fund the development and eventual marketing and sales of our psoriasis product, Femprox®, and Vitaros® in territories outside of the U.S. We intend to seek development partners to advance our products under development because we will also need significant funding to pursue our overall product development plans. In general, products we plan to develop will require significant time-consuming and costly research and development, clinical testing, regulatory approval and significant investment prior to their commercialization. Our research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $5,410,513, $5,022,671 and $5,425,137, respectively. Since January 1, 1994, when we repositioned ourselves as a medical and pharmaceutical technology company, through December 31, 2008, we have spent $96,903,215 on research and development. Given our current level of cash reserves and low rate of revenue generation, we will not be able to fully advance our products under development unless we enter into additional partnering agreements. If we are successful in entering into additional partnering agreements for our products under development, we may receive milestone payments, which will offset some of our research and development expenses. We currently have no sales force or marketing organization and will need, but may not be able, to attract marketing partners or afford qualified or experienced marketing and sales personnel. In order to market our proprietary products under development, we will need to attract additional marketing partner(s) that will need to spend significant funds to inform potential customers, including third-party distributors, of the distinctive characteristics and benefits of our products. Our operating results and long term success will depend, among other things, on our ability to establish (1) successful arrangements with domestic and additional international distributors and marketing partners and (2) an effective internal marketing organization. Consummation of partnering arrangements is subject to the negotiation of complex contractual relationships, and we may not be able to negotiate such agreements on a timely basis, if at all, or on terms acceptable to us. Pre-clinical and clinical trials are inherently unpredictable. If we or our partners do not successfully conduct these trials, we or our partners may be unable to market our products. Through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, our products must be demonstrated to be safe and effective for their indicated uses. Results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not allow for prediction of results in later-stage testing. Future clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our products or may not result in regulatory approval to market our products. Commercial sales in the United States of our products cannot begin until final FDA approval is received. The failure of the FDA to approve our products for commercial sales will have a material adverse effect on our prospects. 10 Patents and intellectual property rights are important to us but could be challenged. Proprietary protection for our pharmaceutical products is of material importance to our business in the U.S. and most other countries. We have sought and will continue to seek proprietary protection for our products to attempt to prevent others from commercializing equivalent products in substantially less time and at substantially lower expense. Our success may depend on our ability to (1) obtain effective patent protection within the U.S. and internationally for our proprietary technologies and products, (2) defend patents we own, (3) preserve our trade secrets, and (4) operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify our partners for certain liabilities with respect to the defense, protection and/or validity of our patents and would also be required to incur costs or forego revenue if it is necessary for our partners to acquire third party patent licenses in order for them to exercise the licenses acquired from us. We have either acquired or received thirteen U.S. patents out of a series of patent applications that we have filed in connection with our NexACT® technology and our NexACT®-based products under development. To further strengthen our global patent position on our proprietary products under development, and to expand the patent protection to other markets, we have filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty corresponding international applications for our issued U.S. patents and pending U.S. patent applications. The two patents covering the first generation of the NexACT® technology enhancer have expired, and we have sold three patents covering Vitaros® to Warner. While we believe there are significant disadvantages to using the permeation enhancers that are covered by the two patents which expired in 2008 and 2009, including the difficulty of formulation, there is always a risk that once our enhancers are off patent, they can be used by other parties to develop competitive products. While we have obtained patents and have several patent applications pending, the extent of effective patent protection in the U.S. and other countries is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy addresses the breadth of claims allowed in or the degree of protection afforded under patents of medical and pharmaceutical companies. Patents we currently own or may obtain might not be sufficiently broad enough to protect us against competitors with similar technology. Any of our patents could be invalidated or circumvented. While we believe that our patents would prevail in any potential litigation, the holders of competing patents could determine to commence a lawsuit against us and even prevail in any such lawsuit. Litigation could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, which may harm our business. In addition, our efforts to protect or defend our proprietary rights may not be successful or, even if successful, may result in substantial cost to us. Additionally, we have indemnified Warner against challenges to the patents that they acquired from us on February 3, 2009. We and our licensees depend upon third party manufacturers for chemical manufacturing supplies. We and our licensees are dependent on third party chemical manufacturers for the active drugs in our NexACT®-based products under development, and for the supply of our NexACT® enhancers that are essential in the formulation and production of our topical products on a timely basis and at satisfactory quality levels. If our validated third party chemical manufacturers fail to produce quality products on time and in sufficient quantities, our results would suffer, as we or our licensees would encounter costs and delays in revalidating new third party suppliers. We face severe competition. We are engaged in a highly competitive industry. We and our licensees can expect competition from numerous companies, including large international enterprises, and others entering the industry with regard to our products. Most of these companies have greater research and development, manufacturing, marketing, financial, technological, personnel and managerial resources. Acquisitions of competing companies by large pharmaceutical or healthcare companies could further enhance such competitors' financial, marketing and other resources. Competitors may complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and commence commercial sales of their products before we could enjoy a significant competitive advantage. Products developed by our competitors may be more effective than our products. We may be subject to potential product liability and other claims, creating risks and expense. We are also exposed to potential product liability risks inherent in the development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human therapeutic products. Product liability insurance for the pharmaceutical industry is extremely expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We currently have liability insurance to cover claims related to our products that may arise from clinical trials, with coverage of $1 million for any one claim and coverage of $3 million in total, but we do not maintain product liability insurance for marketed products as our products have yet to be commercialized. We may need to acquire such insurance coverage prior to the commercial introduction of our products. If we obtain such coverage, we have no guarantee that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate. A successful claim against us if we are uninsured, or which is in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, could have a material adverse effect upon us and on our financial condition. 11 INDUSTRY RISKS We are vulnerable to volatile market conditions. The market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, have been highly volatile. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, future announcements, such as the results of testing and clinical trials, the status of our relationships with third-party collaborators, technological innovations or new therapeutic products, governmental regulation, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, litigation or public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others and general market conditions, concerning us, our competitors or other biopharmaceutical companies, may have a significant effect on the market price of our Common Stock. Instability and volatility in the financial markets and the global economic recession are likely to have a negative impact on our ability to raise necessary funds and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. During recent months, there has been substantial volatility and a decline in financial markets due at least in part to the deteriorating global economic environment. In addition, there has been substantial uncertainty in the capital markets and access to financing is uncertain. These conditions are likely to have an adverse effect on our industry, licensing partners, and business, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may, if available, need to incur indebtedness to finance plans for growth. However, recent turmoil in the credit markets and the potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through borrowings, under either existing or newly created instruments in the public or private markets on terms that we believe to be reasonable, if at all. We and our licensees are subject to numerous and complex government regulations which could result in delay and expense. Governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries heavily regulate the testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution, advertising and marketing of our proposed products. None of our proprietary products under development has been approved for marketing in the U.S. Before any products we develop are marketed, FDA and comparable foreign agency approval must be obtained through an extensive clinical study and approval process. The studies involved in the approval process are conducted in three phases. In Phase 1 studies, researchers assess safety or the most common acute adverse effects of a drug and examine the size of doses that patients can take safely without a high incidence of side effects. Generally, 20 to 100 healthy volunteers or patients are studied in the Phase 1 study for a period of several months. In Phase 2 studies, researchers determine the drug's efficacy with short-term safety by administering the drug to subjects who have the condition the drug is intended to treat, assess whether the drug favorably affects the condition, and begin to identify the correct dosage level. Up to several hundred subjects may be studied in the Phase 2 study for approximately 6 to 12 months, depending on the type of product tested. In Phase 3 studies, researchers further assess efficacy and safety of the drug. Several hundred to thousands of patients may be studied during the Phase 3 studies for a period from 12 months to several years. Upon completion of Phase 3 studies, a New Drug Application is submitted to the FDA or foreign governmental regulatory authority for review and approval. The failure to obtain requisite governmental approvals for our products under development in a timely manner or at all would delay or preclude us and our licensees from marketing our products or limit the commercial use of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Because we intend that our products will be sold and marketed outside the U.S., we and/or our licensees will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursements. These requirements vary widely from country to country. The failure to meet each foreign country's requirements could delay the introduction of our proposed products in the respective foreign country and limit our revenues from sales of our proposed products in foreign markets. Successful commercialization of our products may depend on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party healthcare payers, such as government and private insurance plans. Even if one or more products is successfully brought to market, reimbursement to consumers may not be available or sufficient to allow the realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development or to sell our products on a competitive basis. In addition, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental controls. In the U.S., federal and state agencies have proposed similar governmental control and the U.S. Congress has recently considered legislative and regulatory reforms that may affect companies engaged in the healthcare industry. Pricing constraints on our products in foreign markets and possibly in the U.S. could adversely affect our business and limit our revenues. RISKS RELATED TO OWNING OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock may be delisted from Nasdaq, which may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. Currently, our Common Stock trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market. On October 9, 2008, we were notified by The Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”) that for the previous 30 consecutive trading days our Common Stock has closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion by Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D). Pursuant to Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(E), we were provided 180 calendar days, or until April 7, 2009, to regain compliance. On October 22, 2008, we were notified by Nasdaq that effective October 16, 2008 it had suspended enforcement of the bid price requirement until January 16, 2009. Further, on December 23, 2008 we were notified by Nasdaq that it had again suspended the enforcement of the bid price requirement until April 20, 2009. As such, since we had 174 days remaining in our compliance period, we now have 174 days from April 20, 2009, or until October 10, 2009, to regain compliance. Accordingly, our Common Stock must achieve a minimum bid price of $1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive days during the period ended October 10, 2009 in order to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we fail to achieve the minimum bid price requirement of the Nasdaq Capital Market by October 10, 2009 or fail to maintain compliance with any other listing requirements during this period, we may be delisted and our stock would be considered a penny stock under regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and would therefore be subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our Common Stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the Common Stock and your ability to sell our securities in the secondary market. In addition, if we fail to maintain our listing on Nasdaq or any other United States securities exchange, quotation system, market or over-the-counter bulletin board, we will be subject to cash penalties under investor rights agreements to which we are a party until a listing is obtained. We do not expect to pay dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Although our shareholders may receive dividends if, as and when declared by our board of directors, we do not intend to declare dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not purchase our Common Stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment. 13 We may issue additional shares of our capital stock that could dilute the value of your shares of Common Stock. We are authorized to issue 130,000,000 shares of our capital stock, consisting of 120,000,000 shares of our Common Stock and 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock of which 1,000,000 are designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, 800 are designated as Series B 8% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and 600 are designated as Series C 6% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. As of March 10, 2009, 84,410,736 shares of our Common Stock were issued and outstanding and 15,487,035 shares of our Common Stock were issuable upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding options and warrants. As of March 10, 2009, there were no shares of Series A, Series B or Series C Preferred Stock outstanding. In light of our possible future need for additional financing, we may issue authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock at below current market prices or additional convertible securities that could dilute the earnings per share and book value of your shares of our Common Stock. In addition to provisions providing for proportionate adjustments in the event of stock splits, stock dividends, reverse stock splits and similar events, certain warrants, provide (with certain exceptions) for an adjustment of the exercise price if we issue shares of Common Stock at prices lower than the then exercise or conversion price or the then prevailing market price. This means that if we need to raise equity financing at a time when the market price for our Common Stock is lower than the exercise or conversion price, or if we need to provide a new equity investor with a discount from the then prevailing market price, then the exercise price will be reduced and the dilution to shareholders increased. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 