Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a summary of the material risks related to an investment in the Company’s securities. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. economy or the U.S. banking system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law EESA which, among other measures, authorizes Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under a troubled asset relief program, or “TARP.” The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. On January 9, 2009, the Company sold 89,310 shares of its Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) along with a warrant to purchase 1,543,376 shares of the Company’s common stock at a per share exercise price of $8.68 pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the U.S. Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. Most recently, on February 17, 2009, the ARRA was signed into law. ARRA, more commonly known as the economic stimulus bill or economic recovery package, is intended to stimulate the economy and provides for broad infrastructure, education and health spending. 19 On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a temporary liquidity guarantee program to provide full deposit insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. Insured institutions were automatically covered by this program from October 14, 2008 until December 5, 2008, unless they opted out prior to that date. Under the program, the FDIC will guarantee timely payment of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senor debt including promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding. The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009, or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of liabilities as of September 30, 2008. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. The Bank elected to participate in both parts of the temporary liquidity guarantee program. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U. S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits or borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult market conditions will improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: ● We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. ● Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. ● We also may be required to pay even higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. 20 ● Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or the Federal Home Loan Bank on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events. ● We may experience a decrease in dividend income from our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock. ● We may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our stock price can be volatile. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: ● Variations in our quarterly operating results. ● Changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry. ● Governmental and regulatory legislation or actions ● Issuance of shares of common shares or other securities in the future. ● The addition or departure of key personnel. ● Cyclical fluctuations. ● Changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common shares. ● Announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, joint ventures. ● Activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. 21 The market value of our securities portfolio may be impacted by the level of interest rates and the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers. If a decline in market value of a security is determined to be other than temporary, under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to write these securities down to their estimated fair value through a charge to earnings. As of December 31, 2008, we owned two pooled trust preferred securities classified as available for sale with an aggregate historical cost of $9.0 million and an estimated fair value of $1.5 million. During the quarter ended December 31, 2008, these securities were determined to be other than temporarily impaired and, as a result, a charge of $7.5 million was incurred during the quarter. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, we had two single trust-preferred securities with an original cost basis of $20 million and an estimated fair value of $10.3 million and a pooled trust-preferred security with an original cost basis of $8.8 million and an estimated fair value of $2.7 million, both classified as available for sale. We have reviewed these securities and determined that the decreases in estimated fair value are temporary. We perform an ongoing analysis of these securities. Future changes in interest rates or the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers may reduce the market value of these and other securities. The Company, through the Bank, is a member of the FHLBNY, and is required to maintain an investment in its capital stock and it is restricted in that they can only be redeemed by the issuer at par value. On January 8, 2009, Moody’s Global Banking issued a report stating the potential for a significant other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charge on private label mortgage-backed securities held by the Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLBanks”). Of the 12 regional FHLBanks, capital levels for 8 of these banks would be in jeopardy of meeting minimum regulatory capital requirements under a “worst-case” scenario that assumes all private label securities owned by the FHLBanks are deemed to be impaired. The capital levels of the other 4 FHLBanks, which includes FHLBNY, would remain above minimum regulatory capital requirements under the same scenario. The FHLBNY has since declared a fourth quarter dividend which was distributed to member financial institutions on January 30, 2009 and the president of the FHLBNY issued a report stating the FHLBNY anticipates positive earnings for both the fourth quarter and full-year 2008 and that initial indications are that OTTI charges in the fourth quarter of 2008 for the FHLBNY, if any, will not be material. The Company does not believe that an OTTI of its holdings exists as of December 31, 2008 and will continue to monitor the financial performance of the FHLBNY. If FHLBNY is unable to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements or is required to aid the remaining FHLBanks, the Company’s holdings in FHLBNY may be determined to be other than temporarily impaired and may require a charge to the Company’s earnings which could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we are unable to promptly deploy the capital raised in our recent offering We may not be able to immediately deploy all of the capital raised in the recent sale of the Series A Preferred Stock to the Treasury. Investing the offering proceeds in securities until we are able to deploy the proceeds or investing in securities that do not provide the expected return may provide lower margins than we generally earn on loans, potentially adversely affecting shareholder returns, including earnings per share, return on assets and return on equity. 22 The Bank’s loan portfolio includes a substantial amount of commercial and industrial loans. The credit risk related to these types of loans is greater than the risk related to residential loans. The Company’s commercial and industrial loan portfolios, which include commercial real estate loans, totaled $2.2 billion at December 31, 2008, comprising 82.7% of total loans. Commercial and industrial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of risk of nonpayment or late payment than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans. Any significant failure to pay or late payments by the Company’s customers would hurt the Company’s earnings. The increased credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, and the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties. A significant portion of the Company’s commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loan portfolios includes a balloon payment feature. A number of factors may affect a borrower’s ability to make or refinance a balloon payment, including the financial condition of the borrower, the prevailing local economic conditions and the prevailing interest rate environment. Furthermore, commercial real estate loans secured by owner occupied properties are dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. If the operating company suffers difficulties in terms of sales volume and/or profitability, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Loans secured by properties where repayment is dependent upon payment of rent by third party tenants or the sale of the property may be impacted by loss of tenants, lower lease rates needed to attract new tenants or the inability to sell a completed project in a timely fashion and at a profit. The collateral for the Company’s commercial loans that are secured by real estate are classified as 45.1% owner occupied properties and 54.9% non-owner occupied properties. Overall, the Company’s market place has expanded within the State of New Jersey and likewise, commercial lending activities have grown, especially in the central and more recently the northern parts of the state. A significant broad based deterioration in economic conditions throughout New Jersey, including the real estate markets as well as other external factors, could have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of the loan portfolio and consequently, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the Company has failed to provide an adequate allowance for loan losses, there could be a significant negative impact on its earnings. The risk of loan losses varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value of the collateral for the loan. Based upon factors such as historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and a regular review of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality, the Company’s management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s allowance for loan losses was $37.3 million which represented 1.36% of total loans and 79.69% of nonperforming loans. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future credit losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Company to increase its allowance for loan losses, its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly and adversely affected. Given that the components of the allowance are based partially on historical losses and on risk rating changes in response to recent events, required reserves may trail the emergence of any unforeseen deterioration in credit quality. 23 The Company may not be able to achieve its growth plans or effectively manage its growth. The Company’s ability to successfully grow depends on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable acquisition and business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in its market areas and its ability to integrate any acquisitions and otherwise manage its growth. There can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or that growth will be successfully managed. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect the Company’s earnings. The market areas in which the Company operates are among the most highly competitive in the country. There is substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting and retaining deposits and competition is increasing in intensity. The competition comes principally from other banks, larger and smaller, savings institutions, credit unions, mortgage banking companies and the myriad of nonbanking competitors, such as full service brokerage firms, money market mutual funds, insurance companies and other institutional lenders. Ultimately, competition may adversely affect the rates the Company pays on deposits and charges on loans, thereby potentially adversely affecting the Company’s profitability. Changes in interest rates may reduce the Company’s profits. The most significant component of the Company’s net income is net interest income, which accounted for 75.4% of total revenue in 2008 and 79.1% in 2007. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income generated on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense paid on the funds required to support earning assets, namely deposits and borrowed funds. Interest income, which represents income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the level of interest rates, the interest rate sensitivity of the earning assets and the levels of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds is a function of the amount and type of funds required to support the earning assets, the rates paid to attract and retain deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of non-interest bearing demand deposits. Interest rate sensitivity is a measure of how our assets and liabilities react to changes in market interest rates. The Company expects that this interest sensitivity will not always be perfectly balanced. This means that either the Company’s interest-earning assets will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than its interest bearing liabilities, or vice versa. If more interest-earning assets than interest –bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are declining, then the Company’s net interest income may be reduced. If more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are rising, then the Company’s net income may be reduced. 24 After maintaining a tightening bias through 2006, the Federal Reserve Board began easing rates in September 2007 by decreasing the federal funds target rate by 50 basis points, the first time rates decreased since June 2003. By the end of 2007, the Federal Reserve Board decreased short-term rates an additional 50 basis points to a new target rate of 4.25%. In response to concerns over a weakening economy, the Federal Reserve Board began 2008 with an unprecedented drop of 75 basis points followed by an additional 50 basis points at Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”) meetings on January 22nd and January 30th, respectively. Further reductions followed at the March and April FOMC meetings totaling 100 basis points. After a mid-year hiatus, the Federal Reserve Board reduced rates again twice in October and also in December. As of year end, the target federal funds rate ranged from 0.0% to 0.25%, a historic low. Longer term rates generally followed the declines in the federal funds rate; however, the magnitude of the change was not as dramatic as short rates. The yield curve was generally positive throughout most of 2008. Turmoil in the financial markets resulted in widening of credit spreads. These wider spreads impacted both the asset and liability sides of the Company’s balance sheet. Wider spreads available on loans were offset by higher rates demanded for deposits. Further Federal Reserve Board interest reductions or yield curve flattening in 2009 will likely result in further compression of the Company’s net interest margin which could have an impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the goodwill that the Company has recorded in connection with its acquisitions becomes impaired, there could be a negative impact on the Company’s profitability. Under the purchase method of accounting for all business combinations, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company’s net assets, the excess is carried on the acquiror’s balance sheet as goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $146.7 million of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets on its balance sheet. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment are to be charged to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment is determined and there would not be any impact to the Company’s regulatory capital ratios. Based on tests of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets impairment, the Company has concluded that there has been no impairment during 2008 and 2007, and thus no write-downs have been recorded. However, the Company will continue to monitor conditions, such as fluctuations in market value and credit quality for both the Company and its peers, which would trigger the need for a more frequent review. There can be no assurance that the future evaluations of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets will not result in determinations of impairment and write-downs which could have a non-cash impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Government regulation significantly affects the Company’s business and operations. The Company and the banking industry are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which the Company conducts its business. 25 Overall, these various statutes establish the corporate governance and permissible business activities for the Company, acquisition and merger restrictions, limitations on inter-company transactions, capital adequacy requirements, and requirements for anti-money laundering programs and other compliance matters. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds, consumers and not to the benefit of the Company’s shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may continue to be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, which is not in the control of the Company. Significant new laws, or changes to existing laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Overall compliance with all the required statutes increases Sun’s operating expenses, requires a significant amount of management’s attention and could be a competitive disadvantage with respect to non-regulated competitors. RISKS RELATED TO THE SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK The Series A Preferred Stock is equity and is subordinate to all of our existing and future indebtedness; regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock; and the Series A Preferred Stock places no limitations on the amount of indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur in the future. Shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are equity interests in Sun Bancorp and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, the Series A Preferred Stock, like our common stock, ranks junior to all indebtedness and other non-equity claims on Sun Bancorp with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on Sun Bancorp, including in a liquidation of Sun Bancorp. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of preferred stock like the Series A Preferred Stock, (1) dividends are payable only when, as and if authorized and declared by, our Board of Directors and depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, debt service requirements, other cash needs and any other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant, (2) as a New Jersey corporation, we may not pay dividends if, after giving effect thereto, we would not be able to pay our debts as they come due in the usual course of business, or our total assets would be less than our total liabilities; and (3) we may not pay dividends on our capital stock if we are in default on certain indebtedness or have elected to defer payments of interest on our subordinated indebtedness. The Company is an entity separate and distinct from its principal subsidiary, Sun Bank, and derives substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from that subsidiary. Accordingly, The Company is and will be dependent upon dividends from the Bank to pay the principal of and interest on its indebtedness, to satisfy its other cash needs and to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and its common stock. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. Also, Sun Bancorp’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In addition, the Series A Preferred Stock does not limit the amount of debt or other obligations we or our subsidiaries may incur in the future. Accordingly, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantial amounts of additional debt and other obligations that will rank senior to the Series A Preferred Stock or to which the Series A Preferred Stock will be structurally subordinated. 26 An active trading market for the Series A Preferred Stock may not develop. The Series A Preferred Stock is not currently listed on any securities exchange and we do not anticipate listing the Series A Preferred Stock on an exchange unless we are requested to do so by Treasury pursuant to the securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for the Series A Preferred Stock will develop, or, if developed, that an active trading market will be maintained. If an active market is not developed or sustained, the market value and liquidity of the Series A Preferred Stock may be adversely affected. The Series A Preferred Stock may be junior in rights and preferences to our future preferred stock. Subject to approval by the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding, voting together as a separate class, we may issue preferred stock in the future the terms of which are expressly senior to the Series A Preferred Stock. The terms of any such future preferred stock expressly senior to the Series A Preferred Stock may restrict dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. For example, the terms of any such senior preferred stock may provide that, unless full dividends for all of our outstanding preferred stock senior to the Series A Preferred Stock have been paid for the relevant periods, no dividends will be paid on the Series A Preferred Stock, and no shares of the Series A Preferred Stock may be repurchased, redeemed, or otherwise acquired by us. This could result in dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock not being paid when contemplated. In addition, in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, the terms of the senior preferred stock may prohibit us from making payments on the Series A Preferred Stock until all amounts due to holders of the senior preferred stock in such circumstances are paid in full. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. Unless and until we are in arrears on our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock and certain other matters and except as may be required by New Jersey law. If dividends on the Preferred Stock are not paid in full for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the total number of positions on the Sun Bancorp Board of Directors will automatically increase by two and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, acting as a class with any other parity securities having similar voting rights, will have the right to elect two individuals to serve in the new director positions. This right and the terms of such directors will end when we have paid in full all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods. Based on the current number of members of the Sun Bancorp Board of Directors (15), directors elected by the holders of the common stock would have a controlling majority of the Board and would be able to take any action approved by them notwithstanding any objection by the directors elected by the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $4.5 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $8.0 million annually). See “Description of Series A Preferred Stock—Redemption and Repurchases.” Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. 27 RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock is not insured and you could lose the value of your entire investment. An investment in shares of our common stock is not a deposit and is not insured against loss by the government. Our management and significant shareholders control a substantial percentage of our stock and therefore have the ability to exercise substantial control over our affairs. As of December 31, 2008, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 9.0 million shares, or approximately 38.3% of our outstanding common stock, including options to purchase approximately 1.5 million shares, in the aggregate, of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $4.51 to $16.10 per share and exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2008. Because of the large percentage of stock held by our directors and executive officers and other significant shareholders, these persons could influence the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our shareholders. We may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock, which may dilute the ownership and voting power of our shareholders and the book value of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock of which 21,830,798 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2008 and up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock of which no shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2008 and 89,310 shares are outstanding as of the date hereof. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares and to establish the terms of any series of preferred stock. These authorized but unissued shares could be issued on terms or in circumstances that could dilute the interests of other stockholders. In addition, a total of 3,054,121 shares of common stock are reserved for issuance under our stock-based incentive plans of which 2,620,924 shares of common stock are subject to options or grants of restricted stock units. As of December 31, 2008, options to purchase a total of 1,949,277 shares were exercisable and had exercise prices ranging from $4.51 to $18.36. Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership interest of shareholders and may further dilute the book value of our common stock. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the New Jersey Business Corporation Act could deter takeovers which are opposed by the Board of Directors. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires the approval of 80% of our outstanding shares for any merger or consolidation unless the transaction meets certain fair price criteria or the business combination has been approved or authorized by the Board of Directors. As a New Jersey corporation with a class of securities registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company is governed by certain provisions of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act that also restrict business combinations with stockholders owning 10% or more of Sun Bancorp’s outstanding shares (“interested stockholders”) for a period of five years after such interested stockholder achieves such status unless the business combination is approved by the Board of Directors prior to the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. The New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act also restricts business combinations with an interested stockholder after the five-year period unless the transaction receives the approval of two-thirds of the shares outstanding, exclusive of the shares held by the interested stockholder or the transaction satisfies certain fair price requirements. 28 The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of (i) January 9, 2012 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, (a) pay a cash dividend on our common stock or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock other than the Series A Preferred Stock or trust preferred securities. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. The Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share, and the warrant we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared and the accretion on discount on the Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Sun Bancorp. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 6.6% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 12, 2009 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 