Item 1A. Risk Factors Our Future Revenues May Be Uncertain Because of Reliance on Third Parties for Marketing and Distribution. Authorize.Net distributes its service offerings primarily through outside sales distribution partners and its revenues are derived predominantly through these relationships. In particular, Wells Fargo is a significant distributor of our gateway services. We intend to continue to market and distribute our current and future products and services through existing and other relationships both in and outside of the United States. There are no minimum purchase obligations applicable to any existing distributor or other sales and marketing partners and we do not expect to have any guarantees of continuing orders. Failure by our existing and future distributors including, without limitation, Wells Fargo or other sales and marketing partners to generate significant revenues, our failure to establish additional distribution or sales and marketing alliances, changes in the industry that render third party distribution networks obsolete, termination of relationships with significant distributors including, without limitation, Wells Fargo, or marketing partners would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may be required to pay higher commission rates in order to maintain loyalty among our third-party distribution partners, which may have a material adverse impact on our profitability. Distributors and other sales and marketing partners may become our competitors with respect to the products they distribute either by developing a competitive product themselves or by distributing a competitive offering. For 13 Table of Contents example, outside sales partners of Authorize.Net products and services are permitted to and generally do market and sell competing products and services. Our Reliance on Suppliers and Vendors Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Provide Our Services and Products to Our Clients on a Timely and Cost-Efficient Basis. We rely to a substantial extent on third parties to provide some of our software, data, systems and services. In some circumstances, we rely on a single supplier or limited group of suppliers. For example, our Payment Processing business requires the services of third-party payment processors. If any of these processors cease to allow us to access their processing platforms, our ability to process credit card payments would be severely impacted. In addition, we depend on a single Originating Depository Financial Institution (ODFI) partner to process ACH transactions, and our ability to process these transactions would be severely impacted if we were to lose such partner or if such partner stopped processing our ACH transactions for any reason. Our reliance on outside vendors and service providers also subjects us to other risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and reduced control over quality, pricing and timing of delivery of components. In addition, our business is materially dependent on services provided by various telecommunications providers. A significant interruption in telecommunications services including, without limitation, a power loss could seriously harm our business. From time to time, we must also rely upon third parties to develop and introduce components and products to enable us, in turn, to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be able to obtain access, in a timely manner, to third-party products and development services necessary to enable us to develop and introduce new and enhanced products. We may not be able to obtain third-party products and development services on commercially reasonable terms and we may not be able to replace third-party products in the event such products become unavailable, obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. The Demand for Our Payment Processing Products and Services Could Be Negatively Affected by a Reduced Growth of e-Commerce or Delays in the Development of the Internet Infrastructure. Sales of goods and services over the Internet do not represent a significant portion of the overall sales of goods and services in the economy. We depend on the growing use and acceptance of the Internet as an effective medium of commerce by merchants and customers in the United States and as a means to grow our business. We cannot be certain that acceptance and use of the Internet will continue to develop or that a sufficiently broad base of merchants and consumers will adopt, and continue to use, the Internet as a medium of commerce. It is also possible that the number of Internet users, or the use of Internet resources by existing users, will continue to grow, and may overwhelm the existing Internet infrastructure. Delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of Internet activity could also have a detrimental effect on the Internet and correspondingly on our business. These factors would adversely affect usage of the Internet, and lower demand for our products and services. We Could Be Subject to Liability as a Result of Security Breaches, Service Interruptions by Cyber Terrorists or Fraudulent or Illegal Use of Our Services. Because some of our activities involve the storage and transmission of confidential personal or proprietary information, such as credit card numbers and social security numbers, and because we are a link in the chain of e-commerce, security breaches, service interruptions and fraud schemes could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and monetary damages. Cyber terrorists have periodically interrupted, and may continue to interrupt, our payment gateway services in attempts to extort payments from us or disrupt commerce. Our payment gateway services may be susceptible to credit card and other payment fraud schemes, including unauthorized use of credit cards or bank accounts, identity theft or merchant fraud. We expect that technically sophisticated criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent our anti-fraud systems. If such fraud schemes 14 Table of Contents become widespread or otherwise cause merchants to lose confidence in our services in particular, or in Internet systems generally, our business could suffer. In addition, the storage and transmission of confidential personal data, coupled with the large volume of payments that we handle for our clients, makes us vulnerable to third-party or employee fraud or other internal security breaches. Further, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and fraud to address any problems they may cause. Our payment system may also be susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. These uses may include illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, software and other intellectual property piracy, money laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products and online securities fraud. Despite measures we have taken to detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, we cannot ensure that these measures will succeed. In addition, regulations under the USA Patriot Act may require us to revise the procedures we use to comply with the various anti-money laundering and financial services laws. Our business could suffer if clients use our system for illegal or improper purposes or if the costs of complying with regulatory requirements increase significantly. Authorize.Net believes it is compliant with the Payment Card Industry’s (PCI) Security Standard which incorporates Visa’s Cardholder Information Security Program (CISP) and MasterCard’s Site Data Protection (SDP) standard. However, there is no guarantee that we will maintain such compliance or that compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment system. We have expended, and may be required to continue to expend, significant capital resources to protect against security breaches, service interruptions and fraud schemes. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches, service interruptions and fraud schemes and the failure to do so may disrupt our business, damage our reputation and expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible monetary damages. A Failure of, Error in or Damage to Our Computer and Telecommunications Systems Would Impair Our Ability to Conduct Transactions, Payment Processing and Support Services and Harm Our Business Operations. We provide Payment Processing transaction services, as well as support services, using complex computer and telecommunications systems. Our business could be significantly harmed if these systems fail or suffer damage from fire, natural disaster, terrorism including cyber terrorism, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized access by hackers, electronic break-ins, intrusions or attempts to deny our ability to deploy our services, computer viruses or similar events. In addition, a growth of our client base, a significant increase in transaction volume or an expansion of our facilities may strain the capacity of our computers and telecommunications systems and lead to degradations in performance or system failure. Errors in our computer and telecommunications systems may adversely impact our ability to provide the products and services contracted for by our clients. We may need to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against or repair damage to our systems that occur as a result of malicious activities, cyber-terrorism, natural disasters or human error, but these protections and repairs may not be completely effective. Our property and business interruption insurance and errors and omissions insurance might not be adequate to compensate us for any losses that may occur as the result of these types of damage. It is also possible that such insurance might cease to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Changes to Credit Card Association and ACH Rules or Practices Could Adversely Impact Our Authorize.Net Business. Our Authorize.Net credit card payment gateway does not directly access the credit card associations. As a result, we must rely on banks and their credit card processing providers to process our transactions. Nevertheless, as a payment gateway we must comply with the operating rules of the credit card associations. The associations’ member banks set these rules, and the associations interpret the rules. Some of those member banks compete with Authorize.Net. Visa, MasterCard, American Express or Discover could adopt new operating rules or interpretations of existing rules which we might find difficult or even impossible to comply with, resulting in our inability to give 15 Table of Contents customers the option of using credit cards to fund their payments. If we were unable to provide a gateway for credit card transactions, our Authorize.Net business would be materially and adversely affected. In December 2004, the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard was created by major credit card companies to safeguard customer information. Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and other credit card associations mandate that merchants and service providers meet certain minimum standards of security when they store, process and transmit cardholder data. Our Payment Processing business must comply with this standard in order to continue as an internet payment gateway. Changes to this standard may require us to invest significant resources in engineering and hardware in order to comply. Additionally, our eCheck.Net service is required to be compliant with Automated Clearing House processing rules promulgated by the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA). NACHA could adopt new operating rules or interpretations of existing rules which we might find difficult or impossible to comply with, resulting in our inability to give customers the option of using the ACH network for payment processing services, as well as significantly hindering our ability, or making us unable, to utilize the ACH network for our own billing and collection activities for our own services. We May Become a Party to Intellectual Property Infringement Claims, Which Could Harm Our Business. From time to time, we have had and may be forced to respond to or prosecute other intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a customer’s or other third party’s rights. These claims, regardless of merit, may consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation or service delays, all of which could seriously harm our business and operating results. Furthermore, parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell or otherwise practice our intellectual property, whether or not patented or described in pending patent applications, or to further develop or commercialize our products in the U.S. and abroad and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. We may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties claiming infringement by us of their intellectual property in order to settle these claims. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not have terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, if we are forced to enter into a license agreement with terms that are unfavorable to us, our operating results would be materially harmed. We may also be required to indemnify our customers, third parties or purchasers of assets or businesses we have sold for losses they may incur under indemnification agreements if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others. We may also seek to settle intellectual property infringement claims which could require payment of material amounts to the third parties claiming infringement. Please refer to Part I Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for a discussion of certain matters related to our intellectual property. In connection with the sale of our INS business to VeriSign on June 14, 2005, we agreed to indemnify VeriSign for up to $5.0 million in damages incurred for potential breaches of our intellectual property representations and warranties in the asset purchase agreement. Such representations and warranties extend for two years from the date of closing. We received notification from VeriSign, Inc. asserting that we are obliged to indemnify VeriSign with respect to a lawsuit filed against VeriSign which alleges that VeriSign is infringing certain patents of the plaintiff. VeriSign asserts that our obligation to indemnify it arises in connection with the sale by us to VeriSign of certain assets related to our Intelligent Network Systems business unit, including our Prepay IN software, which VeriSign acquired in April 2005. We objected to VeriSign’s claim and have asked for additional information, which we have not yet recieved. We are not a party to the litigation at this time. The Success of Our Business Strategy Is Dependent on Our Ability to Further Penetrate into the Payment Processing Market and to Expand into New or Complementary Markets. As part of our business strategy, we are seeking to further penetrate into the payment processing market and to expand our business into new markets or markets that are complementary to our existing payment processing business. 16 Table of Contents If we are not able to successfully expand our penetration into our existing payment processing market or into new or complementary markets, our financial results and future prospects may be harmed. Our ability to increase market penetration and enter new or complementary markets depends on a number of factors, including: • growth in our existing and targeted markets; • our ability to provide products and services to address the needs of those markets; and • competition in those markets. We Have Made and May Continue to Make Acquisitions, Which Involve Risks. We may continue to make acquisitions in the future if we identify companies, technologies or assets that appear to expand or complement our business. Acquisitions involve risks that could cause the actual results of any acquisitions we make to differ from our expectations. At the same time, if we are not able to make acquisitions, we may not be able to expand our business. Some examples of the difficulties posed by acquisitions are that: • We may experience difficulty in integrating and managing acquired businesses successfully and in realizing anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner. The need to retain existing clients, employees, and sales and distribution channels of an acquired Company and to integrate and manage differing corporate cultures can also present significant risks. If we are unable to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses, we may incur substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems. • Our acquisition of other businesses could significantly reduce our available cash and liquidity. In other future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities that could be dilutive to our shareholders or we may use substantial amounts of our remaining cash, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. We also may incur additional debt and amortization expense related to intangible assets as a result of acquisitions. This additional debt and amortization expense, as well as the potential impairment of any purchased goodwill, may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We may also be required to make continuing investments in acquired products or technologies to bring them to market, which may negatively affect our cash flows and net income. We may also incur additional costs relating to the integration, review and evaluation and enhancement of our internal controls for businesses we acquire. In addition, we may assume contingent liabilities that may be difficult to estimate and costs and liabilities associated with assumed litigation matters. • Acquisitions may divert management’s attention from our existing business and may damage our relationships with our key clients and employees. • Acquisitions may also result in liabilities including, without limitation, intellectual property infringement claims not known at the time of acquisition as well as for assumed obligations. We Face Competition from a Broad and Increasing Range of Vendors. The market for products and services offered to participants in online transactions is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. This market is fragmented, and a number of companies offer one or more products or services competitive with ours. We anticipate continued growth and the formation of new alliances in the market in which we compete, which will result in the entrance of new or the creation of bigger competitors in the future. For example, in October 2005, VeriSign, Inc. announced that PayPal, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of eBay, Inc., agreed to acquire VeriSign’s payment gateway business and to form a strategic alliance with VeriSign, Inc. for on-line commerce and security. In addition, in June 2006 Google, Inc. announced Google Checkout, a new payment service that may compete with us. We face potential competition from several primary sources: • providers of online payment processing services, including CyberSource Corporation, Plug & Pay Technologies, Inc., PayPal, Inc., Google, Inc. and LinkPoint International, Inc., a subsidiary of First Data Corporation. 17 Table of Contents • providers of ACH services including Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., Telecheck International, Inc., CheckFree Corporation and Intuit Inc. Other companies, including financial services, credit card and payment processing companies compete with us or may enter the market and provide competing services. Because competitors can penetrate one or more of our markets, we anticipate additional competition from other established and new companies. In addition, competition may intensify as competitors establish cooperative relationships among themselves or alliances with others. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements, or may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services. In addition, in order to meet client requirements, we must often work cooperatively with companies that are, in other circumstances, competitors. The need for us to work cooperatively with such companies may limit our ability to compete aggressively with those companies in other circumstances. If We Do Not Continue to Enhance Our Existing Products and Services, and Develop or Acquire New Ones, We Will Not Be Able to Compete Effectively. The industries in which we do business or intend to do business have been changing rapidly as a result of increasing competition, technological advances, regulatory changes and evolving industry practices and standards, and we expect these changes will continue. Current and potential clients have also experienced significant changes as the result of competition and economic conditions. In addition, the business practices and technical requirements of our clients are subject to changes that may require modifications to our products and services. In order to remain competitive and successfully address the evolving needs of our clients, we must commit a significant portion of our resources to: • identify and anticipate emerging technological and market trends affecting the markets in which we do business; • enhance our current products and services in order to increase their functionality, features and cost-effectiveness to clients that are seeking to control costs and to meet regulatory requirements; • develop or acquire new products and services that meet emerging client needs, such as products and services for the online market; • modify our products and services in response to changing business practices and technical requirements of our clients, as well as to new regulatory requirements; • integrate our current and future products with third-party products; and • create and maintain interfaces to changing client and third party systems. We must achieve these goals in a timely and cost-effective manner and successfully market our new and enhanced products and services to clients. In the past, we have experienced errors or delays in developing new products and services and in modifying or enhancing existing products and services. If we are unable to expand or appropriately enhance or modify our products and services quickly and efficiently, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We and Our Clients Must Comply with Complex and Changing Laws and Regulations. Government regulation influences our activities and the activities of our current and prospective clients, as well as our clients’ expectations and needs in relation to our products and services. Businesses that handle consumers’ funds, such as our Payment Processing business, are subject to numerous state and federal regulations, including those related to banking, credit cards, electronic transactions and communication, escrow, fair credit reporting, privacy of financial records, internet gambling and others. State money transmitter regulations and federal anti-money laundering and money services business regulations can also apply under some circumstances. 18 Table of Contents The application of many of these laws with regard to electronic commerce is unclear. In addition, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be applicable or may be adopted in the future with respect to conducting business over the Internet concerning matters such as taxes, pricing, content and distribution. If applied to us, any of the foregoing rules and regulations could require us to change the way we do business in a way that increases costs or makes our business more complex. In addition, violation of some statutes may result in severe penalties or restrictions on our ability to engage in e-commerce, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Privacy legislation including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and regulations there under, as well as state laws may also affect the nature and extent of the products or services that we can provide to clients as well as our ability to collect, monitor and disseminate information subject to privacy protection. Consumer protection laws in the areas of privacy, credit and financial transactions have been evolving rapidly at the state, federal and international levels. As the electronic transmission, processing and storage of financial information regarding consumers continues to grow and develop, it is likely that more stringent consumer protection laws may impose additional burdens on companies involved in such transactions including, without limitation, notification of unauthorized disclosure of personal information of individuals. Uncertainty and new laws and regulations, as well as the application of existing laws, could limit our ability to operate in our markets, expose us to compliance costs, fines, penalties and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for e-commerce may prompt more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional regulatory burdens on companies that provide services to online business. The adoption of additional laws or regulations, or taxation requirements may affect the ability to offer, or cost effectiveness of offering, goods or services online, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. have also enacted regulations affecting our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. We expect these regulations to increase our compliance costsand require additional time and attention. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to legal actions by regulatory authorities or private parties. Our Quarterly Operating Results May Fluctuate. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future based upon a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. We base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue growth and many of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term. Our revenue model is based largely on recurring revenues, billed monthly, predominately derived from growth in customers and the numbers of transactions processed within a monthly billing period. The number of transactions processed is affected by many factors, several of which are beyond our control, including general consumer trends and holiday shopping in the fourth quarter of the year. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the price of our common stock could fall dramatically. Our common stock price could also fall dramatically if investors or public market analysts reduce their estimates of our future quarterly operating results, whether as a result of information we disclose, or based on industry, market or economic trends, or other factors. Our operating results may also fluctuate in the future due to a variety of other factors, including: • how well we execute on our strategy and operating plans; • changes in the number of transactions we process for our customers, including as a result of seasonality, success of each customer’s business, general economic conditions or regulatory requirements restricting our customers; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • relative rates of acquisition of new customers and the loss of existing customers; • delays in the introduction of new or enhanced services, software and related products by us or our competitors or market acceptance of these products and services; 19 Table of Contents • the amount of capital expenditures required to maintain and expand our business, operations, and infrastructure; and • the impact of external factors or events, such as war, cyber terrorism or other acts of terrorism. Our quarterly results may also vary due to the timing and extent of restructuring, and impairment and other charges that may occur in a given quarter. Our quarterly results may be affected by new changes in accounting rules, such as the requirement to record share-based compensation expense for employee stock option grants made at fair market value. Since the Company has adopted the modified prospective transition method to report share-based compensation expense, periods prior to 2006 have not been restated to reflect the fair value method of expensing share-based compensation. As a result of these factors, we believe that our quarterly results are not predictable with any significant degree of certainty, and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on our quarterly results of operations to predict our future performance. Our Success Depends in Part on Our Ability to Protect Our Proprietary Technologies. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, license and confidentiality agreements, and software security measures to protect our proprietary rights. Much of our know-how and other proprietary technology is not covered by patent or similar protection, and in many cases cannot be so protected. If we cannot maintain or obtain patent or other protection for our proprietary software and other proprietary intellectual property rights, other companies could more easily enter our markets and compete successfully against us. We have a pending application for a patent, but we cannot be certain that the patent will be issued on that application, that any of our future patents will protect our business or technology against competitors that develop similar technology or products or services or provide us with a competitive advantage, or that others will not claim rights in our patents or our proprietary technologies. Patents issued and patent applications filed relating to products used in the payment processing industry are numerous and it may be the case that current and potential competitors and other third parties have filed or will file applications for, or have received or will receive, patents or obtain additional proprietary rights relating to products used or proposed to be used by us. We may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may materially affect our ability to make, use or sell any current or future products or services. The laws of some countries in which our products are licensed do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. We generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees and clients and restrict access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. Nevertheless, we may be unable to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information or detect unauthorized use of and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our competitors also may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Our Business May Be Harmed by Errors in Our Software. The software that we develop and use in providing our transaction processing is extremely complex and contains hundreds of thousands of lines of computer code. Large, complex software systems such as ours are susceptible to errors. The difficulty of preventing and detecting errors in our software is compounded by the fact that we maintain multiple versions of our systems to meet the differing requirements of our major clients, and must implement frequent modifications to these systems in response to these clients’ evolving business policies and technical requirements. Our software design, development and testing processes are not always adequate to detect errors in our software prior to its release. As a result, we have from time to time discovered, and may likely in the future discover, errors in software that we have put into use. Because of the complexity of our systems and the large volume of transactions they process on a daily basis, we sometimes have not detected software errors until after they have affected a significant number of transactions. Software errors can have the effect of causing clients that utilize our products and services to fail to comply with their intended business policies, or to fail to comply with legal, 20 Table of Contents credit card, and banking requirements, such as those under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, NACHA rules, MasterCard’s Site Data Protection (SDP) Standard, Visa’s Cardholder Information Security Program (CISP) and Payment Card Industry’s (PCI) Data Security Standard. Such errors can harm our business in several ways, including the following: • we may suffer a loss of revenue if, due to software errors, we are temporarily unable to provide products or services to our merchant customers; • we may not be paid for the products or services provided to a client that contain errors, or we may be liable for losses or damages sustained by a customer as a result of such errors; • we may incur additional unexpected expenses to correct errors in our software, or to fund product development projects that we may undertake to minimize the occurrences of such errors in the future; • we may damage our relationships with clients or suffer a loss of reputation within our industry; • we may become subject to litigation or regulatory scrutiny; and • our customers may terminate or fail to renew their agreements with us or reduce the products and services they purchase from us. Our errors and omissions insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur due to software errors. It is also possible that such insurance might cease to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our Initiatives to Improve Our Software Design and Development Processes May Not Be Successful. The development of our products has, in some cases, extended over a period of more than ten years. This incremental development process has resulted in systems which are extremely complex. Systems of the size and complexity of ours are inherently difficult to modify and maintain. We have implemented and are also evaluating changes in our product development, testing and control processes to improve the accuracy and timeliness of modifications that we make to our software, including the frequent modifications that we must make in response to changes in the business policies and technical requirements of our clients. We believe that our initiatives to implement new product architecture and to improve our product development, test and control processes will be important to our future competitive position and success. If we are not successful in carrying out these initiatives on a timely basis or in a manner that is acceptable to our clients, our business and future prospects could be harmed. Changes in Management Could Affect Our Ability to Operate Our Business. Our future success will depend to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers. The loss of any of our executive officers could impair our ability to successfully manage our current business or implement our planned business objectives and our future operations may be adversely affected. We Face Significant Competition for a Limited Supply of Qualified Software Engineers, Consultants and Sales and Marketing Personnel. Our business depends on the services of skilled software engineers who can develop, maintain and enhance our products, consultants who can undertake complex client projects and sales and marketing personnel. In general, only highly qualified, highly educated personnel have the training and skills necessary to perform these tasks successfully. In order to maintain the competitiveness of our products and services and to meet client requirements, we need to attract, motivate and retain a significant number of software engineers, consultants and sales and marketing personnel. Qualified personnel such as these are in short supply and we face significant competition for these employees, from not only our competitors but also clients and other enterprises. Other employers may offer software engineers, consultants and sales and marketing personnel significantly greater compensation and benefits or more attractive career paths than we are able to offer. Any failure on our part to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel would seriously damage our business. 21 Table of Contents Our Business Could Require Additional Financing. Our future business activities, the development or acquisition of new or enhanced products and services, the acquisition of additional computer and network equipment, the costs of compliance with government regulations and future expansions including acquisitions will require us to make significant capital expenditures. If our available cash resources prove to be insufficient, because of unanticipated expenses, previous acquisitions, revenue shortfalls or otherwise, we may need to seek additional financing or curtail our expansion activities. If we obtain equity financing for any reason, our existing stockholders may experience dilution in their investments. If we obtain debt financing, our business could become subject to restrictions that affect our operations or increase the level of risk in our business. It is also possible that, if we need additional financing, we will not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms, or at all. We May Not Be Able to Successfully Manage Operational Changes. Over the last several years, our operations have experienced rapid growth in some areas and significant restructurings and cutbacks in others. These changes have created significant demands on our executive, operational, development and financial personnel and other resources. If we achieve future growth in our business, or if we are forced to make additional restructurings, we may further strain our management, financial and other resources. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and reporting systems. We cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully manage the future changes in our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 