ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included in this report in evaluating the Company and our business. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. 18 We receive from Televisa a significant amount of our network programming and we are engaged in litigation with Televisa. We receive substantial amounts of programming for our three networks from Televisa pursuant to our PLA with Televisa, and a separate letter agreement of the same date (referred to as the “Soccer Agreement”) granting us rights to rebroadcast Televisa’s feeds of certain Mexican League soccer games. The programming we receive under the PLA accounts for a majority of our prime time programming and a substantial portion of the overall programming on all three networks. We currently pay a license fee to Televisa for programming, which is subject to certain upward adjustments. In June 2005, Televisa began litigation against us. Televisa’s current claims include breach for our alleged failure to pay Televisa royalties attributable to revenues from one of Univision’s programs, the Company’s alleged unauthorized editing of certain Televisa programs and related copyright infringement claims, a claimed breach of the Soccer Agreement, and a claim that we have not been properly carrying out a provision of the PLA that gives Televisa the secondary right to use our unsold advertising inventory. Televisa currently asserts that we were in material breach of the PLA and the Soccer Agreement, thereby giving Televisa the right to suspend or terminate those agreements. To date, mediation has failed. Televisa is seeking a declaration that we are in material breach of the PLA, that Televisa has the right to suspend or terminate its performance under the PLA and that Televisa may, without liability to Univision, transmit or permit others to transmit any television programming into the United States from Mexico over or by means of the Internet. We intend to continue to defend the litigation and pursue our counterclaims vigorously and plan to take all action necessary to ensure Televisa’s continued performance under the PLA until its expiration in 2017. Any settlement related to the Televisa litigation is subject to the prior written consent of Buyer. If we were held to be in material breach and unable to effect a timely cure, Televisa could elect to terminate the PLA and the Soccer Agreement, and we could be required to pay monetary damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. The programming we receive from Televisa has been very popular and it has helped us to achieve high ratings and grow our audience share. If Televisa were to stop providing us programming for any reason, it could be difficult to develop or acquire replacement programming of comparable quality whether on similar terms or at all, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the popularity of our network and TV stations, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For a description of the litigation process, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” Cancellations, reductions or postponements of advertising could reduce our revenues. We have in the past derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a significant amount of our revenues from advertisers. Other than some television network advertising that is presold on an annual basis, we generally have not obtained, and we do not expect to obtain, long-term commitments from advertisers. Therefore, advertisers generally may cancel, reduce or postpone orders without penalty. Cancellations, reductions or postponements in purchases of advertising could, and often do, occur as a result of a strike; a general economic downturn; an economic downturn in one or more industries that have historically invested more in advertising; an economic downturn in one or more major markets such as New York, Los Angeles or Miami-Fort Lauderdale; changes in population, demographics, audience preferences and other factors beyond our control; or a failure to agree on contractual terms with advertisers. In addition, major incidents of terrorism, war, natural disasters or similar events may require us to program without any advertising. Any material cancellations, reductions, or postponements of advertising for any of the foregoing reasons could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. 19 Lack of audience acceptance of our content could decrease our ratings and, therefore, our revenues. Television and radio content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a television or radio program, and from the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with the program, depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public. The commercial success of a television or radio program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general or specific geographic economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are outside our control. Other television and radio stations may change their formats or programming, a new station may adopt a format to compete directly with one or more of our stations, or stations might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. Certain of the English-language networks and others have begun producing Spanish-language programming and simulcasting certain programming in English and Spanish. Several cable broadcasters have recently commenced or announced their intention to commence Spanish-language services as well. A decrease in our audience acceptance because of these factors can lead to lower ratings. Rating points are the primary factors that are weighed when determining the advertising rates that we receive. Poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. As a result of the unpredictability of program performance and of competition, our stations’ audience ratings, market shares and advertising revenues may decline. Our music business is dependent on identifying, signing and retaining artists with long-term, potential, whose debut albums are well received on release, whose subsequent albums are anticipated by consumers and whose music will continue to generate sales as part of our catalog for years to come. Our financial results may be adversely affected by the absence of superstar artist releases during a particular period. We acquire programming (including sports programming) and make long-term creative talent commitments in advance of a season and in some cases make multi-year commitments even though we cannot predict the ratings they will generate. Similarly in our music business, we make long-term commitments with artists well before an album is produced. A shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of such programming or music could lead to lower revenue and may prohibit us from recouping these upfront costs through corresponding revenues which could lead to decreased profitability. In addition, we must still pay the same program license fees pursuant to the PLA even if the programming supplied under the PLA is no longer popular or is not utilized to the same extent as the programming that was previously utilized. We may replace unpopular programming before we recapture any significant portion of the costs incurred in connection with the programming or before we have fully amortized the costs. Because our programming and music businesses are dependent on popular acceptance, which we cannot predict at the time we incur related costs, our results of operations and cash flows have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, significantly from period to period. Operating results from our programming businesses fluctuate primarily with the acceptance of such programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. Our net music sales and profitability, like those of other companies in the music business, are largely affected by the number and quality of albums that we release, our release schedule, and, more importantly, the consumer demand for these releases. We also make advance payments to recording artists and songwriters, which impact our operating cash flows. The timing of album releases and advance payments is largely based on business and other considerations and is made without regard to the timing of the release of our financial results. We report results of operations quarterly and our results of operations and cash flows in any reporting period may be materially affected by the lack of popularity of programming and the timing of releases and advance payments, which may result in significant fluctuations from period to period. 20 Because the U.S. Hispanic population is concentrated geographically, our results of operations are sensitive to the economic conditions in particular markets and negative events in those markets could reduce our revenues. Approximately 33% of all U.S. Hispanics live in the Los Angeles, New York and Miami-Fort Lauderdale markets and the top ten U.S. Hispanic markets collectively account for approximately 55% of the U.S. Hispanic population. Our revenues are, therefore, concentrated in these key markets. As a result, an economic downturn, increased competition, or another significant negative event in these markets could reduce our revenues and results of operations more dramatically than other companies that do not depend as much on these markets. Piracy of our programming and other content, including digital and Internet piracy, home copying and Internet downloading, may decrease sales. Piracy of programming, particularly industrial pirated music, is prevalent in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances allowing conversion of programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of our content. In addition, the decreasing cost of electronic and computer equipment and related technology such as CD burners and the conversion of music into digital formats have made it easier for consumers to create unauthorized copies of our music recordings in the form of, for example, CDs and MP3 files. A substantial portion of our music revenue comes from the sale of audio products that are potentially subject to unauthorized copying and widespread dissemination on the Internet without an economic return to us. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of these products has an adverse effect on our businesses and profitability because unauthorized copies and piracy contribute to the decrease in the volume of legitimate sales and put pressure on the price of legitimate products. They have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business. The recorded music industry has been declining and may continue to decline, which may adversely affect our music segment prospects and our results of operations. Illegal downloading of music from the Internet, CD piracy, industrial piracy, economic recession, bankruptcies of record wholesalers and retailers and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending and retail shelf space are all contributing to a declining recorded music industry. Additionally, the period of growth in recorded music sales driven by the introduction and penetration of the CD format has ended, and consumers are purchasing music on a song-by-song basis rather than purchasing an entire album, thereby generating lower sales. The industry may continue to decline and we cannot predict the timing or the extent of any improvement in the industry. A declining recorded music industry is likely to lead to reduced levels of revenue and operating income generated by our recorded music business. Additionally, a declining recorded music industry is also likely to have a negative impact on our music publishing business, which generates a portion of its revenues from mechanical royalties, primarily from the sale of music in CD and other recorded music formats. If we do not successfully respond to rapid changes in technology, services and standards, we may not remain competitive. Technology in the video, telecommunications, radio, music and data services used in the entertainment and Internet industries is changing rapidly. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on our businesses. Examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, satellite radio, video games, MP3 players and other personal video and audio systems (e.g., iPods), wireless devices, text messaging and downloading from the Internet. For example, devices that allow users to view or listen to television or radio programs on 21 a time-delayed basis and technologies which enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements, such as DVRs (e.g., TiVo) and portable digital devices, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers, and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues. In addition, further increases in the use of portable digital devices which allow users to view or listen to content of their own choosing, in their own time, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect our radio and television broadcasting advertising revenues. Other cable providers and direct-to-home satellite operators are developing new video compression techniques that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television marketplace into more specialized niche audiences. More television options increase competition for viewers and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and subscription revenues. Such a competitive environment may increase the demand for programming thereby making it more expensive to acquire new programming or renew current programming. The ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will affect our ability to continue to grow and increase our revenue. Changes in U.S. communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. The television, radio music and Internet industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television and radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. For example, we are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our radio and television stations with maximum terms of eight years. We cannot assure you that the FCC will approve our future renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation of each of our business segments and ownership of our radio and television properties. For example, from time to time, proposals have been advanced in the U.S. Congress and at the FCC to require radio and television broadcast stations to provide advertising time to political candidates for free or at a reduced charge. In addition, some policymakers maintain that cable operators should be required to offer a la carte programming to subscribers on a network by network basis or “family friendly” programming tiers. The FCC recently issued a report finding that consumers would benefit if cable operators were required to offer programming on an a la carte basis because of greater choice and the opportunity to lower bills. Unbundling packages of program services may increase both competition for carriage on distribution platforms and marketing expenses, which could adversely affect our cable networks’ results of operations. Changes to the media ownership and other FCC rules may affect the competitive landscape in ways that could increase the competition we face. Proposals have also been advanced from time to time before the U.S. Congress and the FCC to extend the program access rules (currently applicable only to those cable program services as described below) to all cable program services. Our ability to obtain the most favorable terms available for our content could be adversely affected should such an extension be enacted into law. 22 Our failure to reach agreement with cable operators on acceptable “retransmission consent” terms, or new laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of “must carry” rights, could significantly reduce our ability to obtain cable carriage and therefore revenues. The Communications Act prohibits cable operators from retransmitting commercial television and low power television signals without first obtaining the broadcaster’s consent. This permission is commonly referred to as “retransmission consent” and may involve some compensation from the cable company to the broadcaster for the use of the signal. Alternatively, a local television broadcast station may require a cable operator that serves the same market as the broadcaster to carry its signal. A demand for carriage is commonly referred to as “must-carry.” If the broadcast station asserts its must-carry rights, the broadcaster cannot demand compensation from the cable operator. We have elected retransmission consent with respect to some cable systems in markets where we own television stations, and must carry with respect to other cable systems. In cases where we have elected retransmission consent, we must reach agreement with local cable operators over the terms on which our stations will be carried, including compensation from the cable operator. These agreements are typically renegotiated every three to five years. We have not yet reached agreement with all cable systems with respect to which we have currently elected retransmission consent. We cannot predict whether we will be able to reach agreement on acceptable terms with the operators of all cable systems with respect to which we elected retransmission consent. If we are unable to reach such agreement with a cable operator, we may choose to require that operator to cease carriage of our stations. If we are unable to execute retransmission consent agreements with respect to cable operators serving a material number of subscribers, it could reduce viewership and result in a diminution of revenues. To the extent that our full-power television stations rely on “must carry” rights to obtain cable carriage on specific cable systems, new laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of these cable carriage rights could significantly reduce our ability to obtain cable carriage. We cannot assure you that must carry rights will continue, especially as they relate to the carriage of digital television. New laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of these cable carriage rights could significantly reduce our ability to obtain cable carriage, which would reduce our ability to distribute our programming and consequently our ability to generate revenues from advertising. In addition, a number of entities have commenced operation, or announced plans to commence operation of Internet protocol video systems, or IPTV, using digital subscriber line, fiber optic to the home and other distribution technologies. The issue of whether those services are subject to the existing cable television regulations, including must carry or retransmission consent obligations, has not been resolved. If IPTV systems gain a significant share of the video distribution marketplace, and new laws and regulations fail to provide adequate must carry rights, our ability to distribute our programming to the maximum number of potential viewers will be limited and consequently our revenue potential will be limited. Vigorous enforcement or enhancement of FCC indecency and other program content rules against the broadcast and cable industries could have an adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations. The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on television or radio broadcast stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCC’s definition of indecent material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC has indicated that it is stepping up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency, and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against broadcast licensees for “serious” indecency violations. The FCC has found on a number of occasions recently that the content of broadcasts has contained indecent material. In certain such instances, the FCC issued fines to the offending licensees. Formerly, the maximum permitted fines for adjudicated violations of the FCC’s indecency rules were $32,500 per incident and $300,000 for 23 each continuing violation. In June 2006, Congress increased the maximum permitted fines to $325,000 per incident and $3,000,000 for a continuing violation. Several appeals of certain of the FCC’s recent enforcement actions and of the FCC’s underlying indecency standards are pending in the federal courts. The determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content could violate indecency standards. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions that may adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Goodwill and intangible assets totaled approximately $6.6 billion at December 31, 2006, primarily attributable to acquisitions in the past four years. After the pending Merger, our goodwill will increase significantly. At least annually, we test our goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products or services sold by our businesses and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to operations. Depending on future circumstances, we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination of impairment of a significant portion of our goodwill and other intangibles would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Merger Agreement imposes limitations on our ability to operate our business. Until the closing of the Merger, we may not take certain actions with respect to the operation of our business without the Buyer’s consent. In addition, the pending Merger creates business uncertainty and diverts management’s attention from ongoing business concerns. These limitations, uncertainty and diversion of attention may impair our results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2006 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 