Item 1A. Risk Factors If One or More of Our Major Clients Stops Using Our Products or Services or Changes the Combination of Products and Services It Uses, Our Operating Results Would Suffer Significantly. Our TDS revenues are concentrated among a few major clients. Our 10 largest clients accounted for approximately 57% and 75% of our total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We have no significant merchant concentration in our Payment Processing business. Although our client concentration has declined, we expect that a substantial part of our revenues will continue to come from a relatively small number of clients for the foreseeable future. Consequently, our revenues, margins and net income may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on the actions of a single significant client. A client may take actions that significantly affect us for reasons that we cannot necessarily anticipate or control, such as reasons related to the client’s financial condition, changes in the client’s business strategy or operations, the introduction of alternative competing products or services, acquisitions, or as the result of the perceived quality or cost- 17 Table of Contents effectiveness of our products or services. Our services agreements with Sprint Spectrum L.P. (Sprint), and Nextel Operations, Inc. (Nextel) expire in December 2006. Our services agreement with AT&T Wireless Services, Inc. (AT&T Wireless) expires on April 1, 2009, but is subject to earlier termination upon twelve months’ notice and designated services upon notice. In February 2004, Cingular Wireless LLC (Cingular) announced an agreement to acquire AT&T Wireless and in October 2004, Cingular announced that it had completed its merger with AT&T Wireless. In March 2006, AT&T Inc. and Bell South Corporation announced an agreement to merge the two companies, which will streamline the ownership and operation of Cingular Wireless LLC, which is jointly owned by the two companies. Cingular is not presently a client of Lightbridge. We do not expect that client to generate significant revenue in 2006. On August 12, 2005, the merger transaction between Sprint and Nextel was completed to form Sprint Nextel Corporation (Sprint/Nextel). Following the merger we decreased certain transaction fees to Sprint/Nextel commencing in the third quarter of 2005, and, as a result, we expect our future revenues for Sprint/Nextel to decrease in comparison to the historical levels for Sprint and Nextel when they were separate customers. We are unable to predict the long term effect of the merger on our relationship with Sprint/Nextel, which represented approximately 33% of our total revenues in 2005 including, without limitation, the timing or extent of any reductions in applications processed or other services provided under our contracts with those clients or further price reductions. It is possible that Sprint, Nextel or both could elect not to renew their agreements, to reduce the volume of products and services they purchase from us or to request significant changes to the pricing or other terms in any renewal agreement. The loss of Sprint, Nextel or both, or any of our other major clients would cause sales to fall below expectations and materially reduce our revenues, margins and net income and adversely affect our business. Certain of Our Future Revenues Are Uncertain Because Our Clients May Reduce the Amounts of or Change the Combination of Our Products or Services They Purchase. Most of our communications client contracts extend for terms of between one and three years. During the terms of these contracts, our communications clients typically may elect to purchase any of several different combinations of products and services. The revenue that we receive for processing a transaction for such a client may vary significantly depending on the particular products and services used to process the transaction. In particular, transactions handled through our TeleServices Group generally result in significantly higher revenue than transactions that are submitted and processed electronically, but also result in higher cost of revenues. Therefore, our revenues or margins from a particular client may decline if the client changes the combination of products and services it purchases from us. To the extent our client contracts contain minimum purchase or payment requirements, these minimums are typically at levels significantly below actual or historical purchase or payment levels. Therefore, our current clients may not continue to utilize our products or services at levels similar to previous years or at all, and may not generate significant revenues in future periods. If any of our major clients significantly reduces or changes the combination of products or services it purchases from us for any reason, our business would be seriously damaged. Historically, A Majority of Our Revenues Have Been Concentrated in the Wireless Telecommunications Industry, Which Have Experienced Declining Growth Rates, Consolidation and Increasing Pressure to Control Costs. Historically, we derived a majority of our revenues from companies in the wireless telecommunications industry, and we expect that wireless telecommunications companies will continue to account for a substantial part of our revenues in 2006. In recent years, the growth rate of the domestic wireless industry has slowed. In addition, consolidation has affected the number of carriers to whom our products and services can be marketed and sold, and competition among wireless carriers has continued to increase, resulting in heightened efforts by carriers to control costs. Many of our carrier clients have sought and received, and may in the future seek, pricing concessions when they renew their services agreements with us or at other times, which would adversely affect our revenues, margins and net income. In addition, certain of our carrier clients have sought bankruptcy protection in recent years, and we believe it is possible that additional clients may file for bankruptcy protection if current industry conditions continue. Bankruptcy filings by our clients or former clients such as WorldCom, Inc. may prevent us from collecting 18 Table of Contents some or all of the amounts owing to us at the time of filing, may require us to return some or all of any payments received by us within 90 days prior to a bankruptcy filing and may also result in the termination of our service agreements. As a result of the foregoing conditions, our success depends on a number of factors: • our ability to maintain our profit margins on sales of products and services to companies in the wireless telecommunications industry; • the financial condition of our clients and their continuing ability to pay us for services and products; • our ability to develop and market new or enhanced products and services to new and existing clients; • continued growth of the domestic wireless telecommunications markets; and • our ability to increase market penetration in the wireless telecommunications market. We and Our Clients Must Comply with Complex and Changing Laws and Regulations. Government regulation influences our activities and the activities of our current and prospective clients, as well as our clients’ expectations and needs in relation to our products and services. Businesses that handle consumers’ funds, such as our Payment Processing business, are subject to numerous state and federal regulations, including those related to banking, credit cards, electronic transactions and communication, escrow, fair credit reporting, privacy of financial records and others. State money transmitter regulations and federal anti-money laundering and money services business regulations can also apply under some circumstances. The application of many of these laws with regard to electronic commerce is currently unclear. In addition, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be applicable or may be adopted in the future with respect to conducting business over the Internet concerning matters such as taxes, pricing, content and distribution. If applied to us, any of the foregoing rules and regulations could require us to change the way we do business in a way that increases costs or makes our business more complex. In addition, violation of some statutes may result in severe penalties or restrictions on our ability to engage in e-commerce, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our clients also include telecommunications companies that, to the extent that they extend consumer credit, may be subject to federal and state regulations. In making credit evaluations of consumers, performing fraud screening or user authentication, our clients are subject to requirements of federal law, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and regulations thereunder, as well as state laws which impose a variety of additional requirements. Privacy legislation may also affect the nature and extent of the products or services that we can provide to clients as well as our ability to collect, monitor and disseminate information subject to privacy protection. Although most of the products and services we provide to the telecommunications industry, other than our ProFile service, are not directly subject to these requirements, we must take these extensive and evolving requirements into account in order to meet our clients’ needs. In some cases, consumer credit laws require our clients to notify consumers of credit decisions made in connection with their applications for telecommunications services, and we have contracted with some of our clients, including Sprint/Nextel, AT&T Wireless, and Dobson Communications, Inc., to provide such notices on their behalf. Our software has in the past contained, and could in the future contain, undetected errors affecting compliance by our clients with one or more of these legal requirements. Failure to properly implement these requirements in our products and services in a timely, cost-effective and accurate manner could result in liability, either directly or as indemnitor of our clients, damage to our reputation and relationships with clients and a loss of business. Consumer protection laws in the areas of privacy, credit and financial transactions have been evolving rapidly at the state, federal and international levels. As the electronic transmission, processing and storage of financial information regarding consumers continues to grow and develop, it is likely that more stringent consumer protection laws may impose additional burdens on companies involved in such transactions including, without limitation, notification of unauthorized disclosure of personal information of individuals. Uncertainty and new laws and regulations, as well as the application of existing laws, could limit our ability to operate in our markets, expose us to compliance costs, fines, penalties and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for e-commerce may prompt more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional regulatory burdens on companies that provide services to online 19 Table of Contents business. The adoption of additional laws or regulations, or taxation requirements may affect the ability to offer, or cost effectiveness of offering, goods or services online, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. have also enacted regulations affecting our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. We expect these regulations to increase our compliance costs and to make some of our activities more time-consuming. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to legal actions by regulatory authorities or private parties. We May Become a Party to Intellectual Property Infringement Claims, Which Could Harm Our Business. From time to time, we have had and may be forced to respond to or prosecute other intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a client’s rights. These claims, regardless of merit, may consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation or cause product shipment delays, all of which could seriously harm our business and operating results. Furthermore, parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell or otherwise practice our intellectual property, whether or not patented or described in pending patent applications, or to further develop or commercialize our products in the U.S. and abroad and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. We may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties claiming infringement by us of their intellectual property in order to settle these claims. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not have terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, if we are forced to enter into a license agreement with terms that are unfavorable to us, our operating results would be materially harmed. We may also be required to indemnify our clients for losses they may incur under indemnification agreements if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others. Please refer to Part I Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for a discussion of certain pending matters related to our intellectual property. In connection with the sale of our INS business to VeriSign on June 14, 2005, we agreed to indemnify VeriSign for up to $5 million in damages incurred for potential breaches of our intellectual property representations and warranties in the asset purchase agreement. Such representations and warranties extend for two years from the date of closing. Our Future Revenues May Be Uncertain Because of Reliance on Third Parties for Marketing and Distribution. Authorize.Net distributes its service offerings primarily through outside sales distribution partners. Authorize.Net’s revenues are derived predominantly through these relationships with outside distribution partners. In addition, our TDS business has entered into a business alliance with VeriSign to assist us in penetrating the online transaction market for authentication services. We intend to continue to market and distribute our current and future products and services through existing and other relationships both in and outside of the United States. There are no minimum purchase obligations applicable to any existing distributor or other sales and marketing partners and we do not expect to have any guarantees of continuing orders. Failure by our existing and future distributors or other sales and marketing partners to generate significant revenues or our failure to establish additional distribution or sales and marketing alliances or changes in the industry that render third party distribution networks obsolete could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may be required to pay higher commission rates in order to maintain loyalty among our third-party distribution partners, which may have a material adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, distributors and other sales and marketing partners may become our competitors with respect to the products they distribute either by developing a competitive product themselves or by distributing a competitive offering. For example, outside sales partners of Authorize.Net products and services are permitted to and generally do market and sell competing products and services. With respect to the TDS business, VeriSign may elect to market or acquire alternative fraud and identity verification products for authentication services. Competition from existing and future distributors or other sales and marketing partners could significantly harm sales of our products. 20 Table of Contents Changes to Credit Card Association and ACH Rules or Practices Could Adversely Impact Our Authorize.Net Business. Our Authorize.Net credit card payment gateway does not directly access the credit card associations. As a result, we must rely on banks and their credit card processing providers to process our transactions. Nevertheless, as a payment gateway we must comply with the operating rules of the credit card associations. The associations’ member banks set these rules, and the associations interpret the rules. Some of those member banks compete with Authorize.Net. Visa, MasterCard, American Express or Discover could adopt new operating rules or interpretations of existing rules which we might find difficult or even impossible to comply with, resulting in our inability to give customers the option of using credit cards to fund their payments. If we were unable to provide a gateway for credit card transactions, our Authorize.Net business would be materially and adversely affected. In December 2004, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard was created by major credit card companies to safeguard customer information. Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and other credit card associations mandate that merchants and service providers meet certain minimum standards of security when they store, process and transmit cardholder data. Our Payment Processing business must comply with this standard in order continue as an internet payment gateway. Changes to this standard may require us to invest significant resources in engineering and hardware in order to comply. Additionally, our Payment Processing business is required to be compliant with Automated Clearing House processing rules promulgated by the National ACH Association. NACHA could adopt new operating rules or interpretations of existing rules which we might find difficult or impossible to comply with, resulting in our inability to give customers the option of using the ACH network for payment processing services, as well as significantly hinder our ability to utilize the ACH network for our own billing and collection activities for our own services. We Could Be Subject to Liability as a Result of Security Breaches, Service Interruptions by Cyber Terrorists or Fraudulent or Illegal Use of Our Services. Because some of our activities involve the storage and transmission of confidential personal or proprietary information, such as credit card numbers and social security numbers, and because we are a link in the chain of e-commerce, security breaches, service interruptions and fraud schemes could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible monetary damages. Cyber terrorists have periodically interrupted, and may continue to interrupt, our payment gateway services in attempts to extort payments from us or disrupt commerce. Our payment gateway services may be susceptible to credit card and other payment fraud schemes, including unauthorized use of credit cards or bank accounts, identity theft or merchant fraud. We expect that technically sophisticated criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent our anti-fraud systems. If such fraud schemes become widespread or otherwise cause merchants to lose confidence in our services in particular, or in Internet systems generally, our business could suffer. In addition, the storage and transmission of confidential personal data, coupled with the large volume of payments that we handle for our clients makes us vulnerable to third-party or employee fraud or other internal security breaches. Further, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and fraud to address any problems they may cause. Our payment system may also be susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. These uses may include illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, software and other intellectual property piracy, money laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products and online securities fraud. Despite measures we have taken to detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, we cannot ensure that these measures will succeed. In addition, regulations under the USA Patriot Act of 2001 may require us to revise the procedures we use to comply with the various anti-money laundering and financial services laws. Our business could suffer if clients use our system for illegal or improper purposes or if the costs of complying with regulatory requirements increase significantly. Authorize.Net is compliant with Visa’s Cardholder Information Security Program and MasterCard’s Site Data Protection standard. Additionally, Authorize.Net is compliant with the credit card industry’s PCI security 21 Table of Contents requirements. However, there is no guarantee that we will maintain such compliance or that compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment system. We have expended, and may be required to continue to expend, significant capital resources to protect against security breaches, service interruptions and fraud schemes. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches, service interruptions and fraud schemes and the failure to do so may disrupt our business, damage our reputation and expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible monetary damages. A Failure of, Error in or Damage to Our Computer and Telecommunications Systems Would Impair Our Ability to Conduct Transactions, Payment Processing and Support Services and Harm Our Business Operations. We provide TDS and Payment Processing transaction services, as well as support services, using complex computer and telecommunications systems. Our business could be significantly harmed if these systems fail or suffer damage from fire, natural disaster, terrorism including cyber terrorism, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized access by hackers, electronic break-ins, intrusions or attempts to deny our ability to deploy our services, computer viruses or similar events. In addition, a growth of our client base, a significant increase in transaction volume or an expansion of our facilities may strain the capacity of our computers and telecommunications systems and lead to degradations in performance or system failure. Many of our agreements with telecommunications carriers contain level of service commitments, which we might be unable to fulfill in the event of a natural disaster, an actual or threatened terrorist attack or a major system failure. Errors in our computer and telecommunications systems may adversely impact our ability to provide the products and services contracted for by our clients. We may need to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against or repair damage to our systems that occur as a result of malicious activities, cyber-terrorism, natural disasters or human error, but these protections and repairs may not be completely effective. Our property and business interruption insurance and errors and omissions insurance might not be adequate to compensate us for any losses that may occur as the result of these types of damage. It is also possible that such insurance might cease to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The Demand for Our Payment Processing Products and Services Could Be Negatively Affected by a Reduced Growth of e-Commerce or Delays in the Development of the Internet Infrastructure. Sales of goods and services over the Internet do not currently represent a significant portion of the overall sales of goods and services in the economy. We depend on the growing use and acceptance of the Internet as an effective medium of commerce by merchants and customers in the United States and as a means to grow our business. We cannot be certain that acceptance and use of the Internet will continue to develop or that a sufficiently broad base of merchants and consumers will adopt, and continue to use, the Internet as a medium of commerce. It is also possible that the number of Internet users, or the use of Internet resources by existing users, will continue to grow, and may overwhelm the existing Internet infrastructure. Delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of Internet activity could also have a detrimental effect on the Internet and correspondingly on our business. These factors would adversely affect usage of the Internet, and lower demand for our products and services. Our Reliance on Suppliers and Vendors Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Provide Our Services and Products to Our Clients on a Timely and Cost-Efficient Basis. We rely to a substantial extent on third parties to provide some of our equipment, software, data, systems and services. In some circumstances, we rely on a single supplier or limited group of suppliers. For example, our Payment Processing business requires the services of third-party payment processors. If any of these processors cease to allow us to access their processing platforms, our ability to process credit card payments would be severely impacted. In addition, we depend on a single Originating Depository Financial Institution (ODFI) partner to process ACH transactions, and our ability to process these transactions would be severely impacted if we were to lose such partner for any reason. 22 Table of Contents Our reliance on outside vendors and service providers also subjects us to other risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and reduced control over quality, pricing and timing of delivery of components. For example, in order to provide our credit verification service, we need access to third-party credit information databases provided to us by outside vendors. Similarly, delivery of our activation services often requires the availability and performance of billing systems which are also supplied by outside vendors. If for any reason we were unable to access these databases or billing systems, our ability to process credit verification transactions could be impaired. In addition, our business is materially dependent on services provided by various telecommunications providers. A significant interruption in telecommunications services including, without limitation, a power loss could seriously harm our business. From time to time, we must also rely upon third parties to develop and introduce components and products to enable us, in turn, to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be able to obtain access, in a timely manner, to third-party products and development services necessary to enable us to develop and introduce new and enhanced products. We may not be able to obtain third-party products and development services on commercially reasonable terms and we may not be able to replace third-party products in the event such products become unavailable, obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. We Have Made and May Continue to Make Acquisitions, Which Involve Risks. We acquired Authorize.Net Corporation in March of 2004. We may also make additional acquisitions in the future if we identify companies, technologies or assets that appear to expand or complement our core business. Acquisitions involve risks that could cause the actual results of any acquisitions we make to differ from our expectations. If we are not able to make acquisitions, we may not be able to expand our business. For example: • We may experience difficulty in integrating and managing acquired businesses successfully and in realizing anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner. The need to retain existing clients, employees, and sales and distribution channels of an acquired company and to integrate and manage differing corporate cultures can also present significant risks. If we are unable to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses, we may incur substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems. • Our acquisition of other businesses could significantly reduce our available cash and liquidity. In other future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities that could be dilutive to our shareholders or we may use our remaining cash, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. We also may incur additional debt and amortization expense related to intangible assets as a result of acquisitions. This additional debt and amortization expense, as well as the potential impairment of any purchased goodwill, may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We may also be required to make continuing investments in acquired products or technologies to bring them to market, which may negatively affect our cash flows and net income. We may also incur additional costs relating to the integration, review and evaluation and enhancement of our internal controls for Authorize.Net. In addition, we may assume contingent liabilities that may be difficult to estimate and costs and liabilities associated with assumed litigation matters. • Acquisitions may divert management’s attention from our existing business and may damage our relationships with our key clients and employees. • Acquisitions may also result in liabilities for claims not known at the time of acquisition as well as for assumed obligations. The Success of Our Business Strategy Is Dependent on Our Ability to Further Penetrate into Existing Markets and to Expand into New or Complementary Markets. As part of our business strategy, we are seeking to further penetrate into existing markets and to expand our business into new markets or markets that are complementary to our existing businesses, with a focus on the 23 Table of Contents Payment Processing business. If we are not able to successfully expand our penetration into existing markets or into new markets, our financial results and future prospects may be harmed. Our ability to increase market penetration and enter new markets depends on a number of factors, including: • growth in our existing and targeted markets; • our ability to provide products and services to address the needs of those markets; and • competition in those markets. If We Do Not Continue to Enhance Our Existing Products and Services, and Develop or Acquire New Ones, We Will Not Be Able to Compete Effectively. The industries in which we do business or intend to do business have been changing rapidly as a result of increasing competition, technological advances, regulatory changes and evolving industry practices and standards, and we expect these changes will continue. Current and potential clients have also experienced significant changes as the result of consolidation among existing industry participants and economic conditions. In addition, the business practices and technical requirements of our clients are subject to changes that may require modifications to our products and services. In order to remain competitive and successfully address the evolving needs of our clients, we must commit a significant portion of our resources to: • identify and anticipate emerging technological and market trends affecting the markets in which we do business; • enhance our current products and services in order to increase their functionality, features and cost-effectiveness to clients that are seeking to control costs and to meet regulatory requirements; • develop or acquire new products and services that meet emerging client needs, such as products and services for the online market; • modify our products and services in response to changing business practices and technical requirements of our clients, as well as to new regulatory requirements; • integrate our current and future products with third-party products; and • create and maintain interfaces to changing client and third party systems. We must achieve these goals in a timely and cost-effective manner and successfully market our new and enhanced products and services to clients. In the past, we have experienced errors or delays in developing new products and services and in modifying or enhancing existing products and services. If we are unable to expand or appropriately enhance or modify our products and services quickly and efficiently, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We Need to Continue to Improve or Implement our Procedures and Controls. Requirements adopted by the SEC in response to the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of these systems by our independent public accounting firm. In January 2006, we re-evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 and concluded, based upon management’s January 2006 evaluation of those disclosure controls and procedures, that as of March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31, 2005, our disclosure controls and procedures were not fully effective as of those dates to provide a reasonable level of assurance of reaching the Company’s disclosure control objectives. Specifically at December 31, 2005, we had material weaknesses in our procedures for income tax accounting and our ability to properly account and report complex transactions and we restated our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the quarterly periods ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2005 to correct our reporting for income taxes. In addition, in connection with the audit of our financial statements for 2005, management identified an error in accounting and reporting the sale of the INS business in the statement of cash flows, which has been identified as a material weakness. Previously, we had evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31 and September 30, 2005 and found them effective to provide a reasonable level of assurance of reaching our disclosure control 24 Table of Contents objectives. However, our previous evaluation as of June 30, 2005 had identified a separate material weakness as a result of which adjustments were needed to properly account for the gain on the sale of our INS business. Please refer to Part II. Item 9A. below for a discussion about controls and procedures. We continue to evaluate such disclosure controls and procedures, and may modify, enhance or supplement them as appropriate in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with all of the new requirements. Any modifications, enhancements or supplements to our internal control systems or in documentation of such internal control systems could be costly to prepare or implement, divert attention of management or finance staff, and may cause our operating expenses to increase over the ensuing year. Our stock price may be adversely affected because of our conclusion that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective in 2005. Our Business May Be Harmed by Errors in Our Software. The software that we develop and license to clients, and that we also use in providing our transaction processing and contact center services, is extremely complex and contains hundreds of thousands of lines of computer code. Large, complex software systems such as ours are susceptible to errors. The difficulty of preventing and detecting errors in our software is compounded by the fact that we maintain multiple versions of our systems to meet the differing requirements of our major clients, and must implement frequent modifications to these systems in response to these clients’ evolving business policies and technical requirements. Our software design, development and testing processes are not always adequate to detect errors in our software prior to its release or commercial use. As a result, we have from time to time discovered, and may likely in the future discover, errors in software that we have put into commercial use for our clients, including some of our largest clients. Because of the complexity of our systems and the large volume of transactions they process on a daily basis, we sometimes have not detected software errors until after they have affected a significant number of transactions. Software errors can have the effect of causing clients that utilize our products and services to fail to comply with their intended credit or business policies, or to fail to comply with legal, credit card, and banking requirements, such as those under the ECOA, FCRA, GLBA, NACHA, SDP and PCI. Such errors, particularly if they affect a major client, can harm our business in several ways, including the following: • we may suffer a loss of revenue if, due to software errors, we are temporarily unable to provide products or services to our clients; • we may not be paid for the products or services provided to a client that contain errors, or we may be liable for losses or damages sustained by a client or its subscribers as a result of such errors; • we may incur additional unexpected expenses to correct errors in our software, or to fund product development projects that we may undertake to minimize the occurrences of such errors in the future; • we may damage our relationships with clients or suffer a loss of reputation within our industry; • we may become subject to litigation or regulatory scrutiny; and • our clients may terminate or fail to renew their agreements with us or reduce the products and services they purchase from us. Our errors and omissions insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur due to software errors. It is also possible that such insurance might cease to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our Initiatives to Improve Our Software Design and Development Processes May Not Be Successful. The development of our products has, in some cases, extended over a period of more than ten years. This incremental development process has resulted in systems which are extremely complex. Systems of the size and complexity of ours are inherently difficult to modify and maintain. We have implemented and are also evaluating changes in our product development, testing and control processes to improve the accuracy and timeliness of modifications that we make to our software, including the frequent modifications that we must make in response to changes in the business policies and technical requirements of our clients. We believe that our initiatives to 25 Table of Contents implement new product architecture and to improve our product development, test and control processes will be important to our future competitive position and success. If we are not successful in carrying out these initiatives on a timely basis or in a manner that is acceptable to our clients, our business and future prospects could be harmed. We May Not Be Able to Successfully Manage Operational Changes. Over the last several years, our operations have experienced rapid growth in some areas and significant restructurings and cutbacks in others. These changes have created significant demands on our executive, operational, development and financial personnel and other resources. If we achieve future growth in our business, or if we are forced to make additional restructurings, we may further strain our management, financial and other resources. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and reporting systems. We cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully manage the future changes in our business. Our Quarterly Operating Results May Fluctuate. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the price of our common stock could fall dramatically. Our common stock price could also fall dramatically if investors or public market analysts reduce their estimates of our future quarterly operating results, whether as a result of information we disclose, or based on industry, market or economic trends, or other factors. Our revenues are difficult to forecast for a number of reasons: • Seasonal and retail trends affect our transaction revenues, in both our Payment Processing and TDS businesses, as well as our other products and services. Transaction revenues historically have represented the majority of our total revenues. As a result, our revenues can fluctuate. For example, our revenues generally have been highest in the fourth quarter of each calendar year, particularly in the holiday shopping season between Thanksgiving and Christmas. In addition, marketing initiatives undertaken by our clients or their competitors may significantly affect the number of transactions we process. • The sales process for our products and services offered to telecommunications clients is lengthy, sometimes exceeding eighteen months. The length of the sales process makes our revenues difficult to predict. The delay of one or more large orders could cause our quarterly revenues to fall substantially below expectations. • Our consulting services revenues can fluctuate based on the timing of product sales and projects we perform for our clients. Many of our consulting engagements are of a limited duration, so it can be difficult for us to forecast consulting services revenues or staffing requirements accurately more than a few months in advance. • The factors described above under the headings “If One or More of Our Major Clients Stops Using Our Products or Services or Changes the Combination of Products and Services It Uses, Our Operating Results Would Suffer Significantly”, “Certain of Our Revenues Are Uncertain Because Our Clients May Reduce the Amounts of or Change the Combination of Our Products or Services They Purchase”, and “Historically A Majority of Our Revenues Have Been Concentrated in the Wireless Telecommunications Industry, Which Has Experienced Declining Growth Rates, Consolidation and Increasing Pressure to Control Costs”. Most of our expenses, particularly employee compensation and facilities, are relatively fixed. As a result, even relatively small variations in the timing of our revenues may cause significant variations in our quarterly operating results and may result in quarterly losses. Our quarterly results may also vary due to the timing and extent of restructuring and other charges that may occur in a given quarter. Our quarterly results may be affected by new changes in accounting rules, such as the requirement to record stock-based compensation expense for employee stock option grants made at fair market value. 26 Table of Contents As a result of these factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on our quarterly results of operations to predict our future performance. We Face Significant Competition for a Limited Supply of Qualified Software Engineers, Consultants and Sales and Marketing Personnel. Our business depends on the services of skilled software engineers who can develop, maintain and enhance our products, consultants who can undertake complex client projects and sales and marketing personnel. In general, only highly qualified, highly educated personnel have the training and skills necessary to perform these tasks successfully. In order to maintain the competitiveness of our products and services and to meet client requirements, we need to attract, motivate and retain a significant number of software engineers, consultants and sales and marketing personnel. Qualified personnel such as these are in short supply and we face significant competition for these employees, from not only our competitors but also clients and other enterprises. Other employers may offer software engineers, consultants and sales and marketing personnel significantly greater compensation and benefits or more attractive career paths than we are able to offer. Any failure on our part to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel would seriously damage our business. Changes in Management Could Affect Our Ability to Operate Our Business. Our future success will depend to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers. The loss of any of our executive officers could impair our ability to successfully manage our current business or implement our planned business objectives and our future operations may be adversely affected. We Face Competition from a Broad and Increasing Range of Vendors. The market for products and services offered to communications providers and participants in online transactions is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. Each of these markets is fragmented, and a number of companies currently offer one or more products or services competitive with ours. We anticipate continued growth and the formation of new alliances in each of the markets in which we compete, which will result in the entrance of new or the creation of bigger competitors in the future. For example, in October 2005, VeriSign, Inc. announced that PayPal, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of eBay, Inc., agreed to acquire VeriSign’s payment gateway business and to form a strategic alliance with VeriSign, Inc. for on-line commerce and security. In addition, Google, Inc. has stated that it is developing a new payment services that may compete with us. We face potential competition from several primary sources: • providers of online payment processing services, including CyberSource Corporation, Plug & Pay Technologies, Inc., PayPal, Inc., Google, Inc. and LinkPoint International, Inc. • software vendors that provide one or more customer acquisition, customer relationship management and retention or risk management solutions, including ECtel Ltd., TSI Telecommunications Services Inc., Fair Isaac Corporation, Magnum Software Systems, Inc., CGI Group, Inc. and SLP Infoware; • service providers that offer customer acquisition, customer relationship management and retention, risk management or authentication services in connection with other services, including Choicepoint Inc., Visa U.S.A., Experian Information Solutions, Inc., Equifax, Inc., Lexis Nexis, Trans Union, L.L.C., Schlumberger Sema plc and Amdocs Ltd; • information technology departments within larger carriers that have the ability to provide products and services that are competitive with those we offer; • information technology vendors that offer wireless and internet software applications such as CGI Group, Inc, Oracle Corporation, Microsoft Corporation and International Business Machines Corporation; • consulting firms or systems integrators that may offer competitive services or the ability to develop customized solutions for customer acquisition and qualification, customer relationship management and 27 Table of Contents retention or risk management, such as CGI Group, Inc., Accenture Ltd., BearingPoint, Inc., PeopleSoft, Inc., Siebel Systems, Inc. and Cap Gemini Ernst & Young; and • a number of alternative technologies, including profilers, personal identification numbers and authentication, provided by companies such as Verizon Communications, Inc., Authentix Network Inc. and Fair Isaac Corporation. Because competitors can easily penetrate one or more of our markets, we anticipate additional competition from other established and new companies. In addition, competition may intensify as competitors establish cooperative relationships among themselves or alliances with others. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements, or may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services. In addition, in order to meet client requirements, we must often work cooperatively with companies that are, in other circumstances, competitors. The need for us to work cooperatively with such companies may limit our ability to compete aggressively with those companies in other circumstances. Our Success Depends in Part on Our Ability to Obtain Patents for, or Otherwise Protect, Our Proprietary Technologies. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, license and confidentiality agreements, and software security measures to protect our proprietary rights. Much of our know-how and other proprietary technology is not covered by patent or similar protection, and in many cases cannot be so protected. If we cannot obtain patent or other protection for our proprietary software and other proprietary intellectual property rights, other companies could more easily enter our markets and compete successfully against us. We have a limited number of U.S. and foreign patents, and have pending applications for additional patents, but we cannot be certain that any additional patents will be issued on those applications, that any of our current or future patents will protect our business or technology against competitors that develop similar technology or products or services or provide us with a competitive advantage, or that others will not claim rights in our patents or our proprietary technologies. Patents issued and patent applications filed relating to products used in the wireless telecommunications and payment processing industry are numerous and it may be the case that current and potential competitors and other third parties have filed or will file applications for, or have received or will receive, patents or obtain additional proprietary rights relating to products used or proposed to be used by us. We may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may materially affect our ability to make, use or sell any current or future products or services. The laws of some countries in which our products are licensed do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. We generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees and clients and restrict access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. Nevertheless, we may be unable to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information or detect unauthorized use of and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our competitors also may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Our Foreign Operations Subject Us to Risks and Concerns Which Could Negatively Affect Out Business Overall. We have operations outside the U.S. at our contact center located in Liverpool, Nova Scotia, Canada and are planning to deploy other contact center operations outside the U.S. In addition to the risks generally associated with operations in the U.S., operations in foreign countries present us with additional risks, including the following: • the imposition of financial and operational controls and regulatory restrictions by foreign governments; 28 Table of Contents • the need to comply with a wide variety of complex U.S. and foreign laws including, without limitation, import and export laws and treaties; • fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates; • security risks; and • difficulties in managing staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations. Our Business Could Require Additional Financing. Our future business activities, including our operation of Authorize.Net, the development or acquisition of new or enhanced products and services, the acquisition of additional computer and network equipment, the costs of compliance with government regulations and future expansions including acquisitions will require us to make significant capital expenditures. If our available cash resources prove to be insufficient, because of unanticipated expenses, revenue shortfalls or otherwise, we may need to seek additional financing or curtail our expansion activities. If we obtain equity financing for any reason, our existing stockholders may experience dilution in their investments. If we obtain debt financing, our business could become subject to restrictions that affect our operations or increase the level of risk in our business. It is also possible that, if we need additional financing, we will not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms, or at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 