Risk Factors Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited. Based on our calculations prepared in consultation with our internal tax advisors, and in accordance with the rules stated in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), we do not believe that any “ownership change,” as described in the following paragraph and as defined in Section 382 of the Code, has occurred with respect to our net operating losses, or “NOLs,” and accordingly we believe that there is no existing annual limitation under Section 382 of the Code on our ability to use NOLs to reduce our future taxable income. We did not obtain, and currently do not plan to obtain, an IRS ruling or opinion of counsel regarding either of these conclusions. Generally, an ownership change occurs if certain persons or groups increase their aggregate ownership of our total capital stock by more than 50 percentage points in any three-year period. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use our NOLs to reduce income taxes is limited to an annual amount (the “Section 382 limitation”) equal to the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long term tax-exempt interest rate, which is published monthly by the Internal Revenue Service. In the event of an ownership change, NOLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year will continue to be allowed as carryforwards for the remainder of the carryforward period and such excess NOLs can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carryforward period subject to the Section 382 limitation in each year. Regardless of whether an ownership change occurs, the carryforward period for NOLs is either 15 or 20 years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the NOLs were incurred, depending on when those losses were incurred. The earliest losses that gave rise to our remaining NOLs were incurred in 1991 and will expire in 2006. The most recent losses that gave rise to our NOLs were incurred in 2003 and will expire in 2023. If the carryforward period for any NOL were to expire before that NOL had been fully utilized, the use of the unutilized portion of that NOL would be permanently prohibited. Our use of new NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected by the Section 382 limitation, unless there were another ownership change after those new NOLs arose. It is impossible for us to state that an ownership change will not occur in the future. In addition, limitations imposed by Code Section 382 and the restrictions contained in our certificate of incorporation may prevent us from issuing additional stock to raise capital or acquire businesses. To the extent not prohibited by our certificate of incorporation, we may decide in the future that it is necessary or in our interest to take certain actions that could result in an ownership change. Code Section 269 permits the IRS to disallow any deduction, credit or allowance, including the utilization of NOLs, that otherwise would not be available but for the acquisition of control of a corporation, including acquisition by merger, for the principal purpose of avoiding federal income taxes, including avoidance through the use of NOLs. If the IRS were to assert that the principal purpose of the USAuto acquisition was the avoidance of federal income tax, we would have the burden of proving that this was not the principal purpose. The determination of the principal purpose of a transaction is purely a question of fact and requires an analysis of all the facts and circumstances surrounding the transaction. Courts generally have been reluctant to apply Code Section 269 where a reasonable business purpose existed for the timing and form of the transaction, even if the availability of tax benefits was also an acknowledged consideration in the transaction. We think that Code Section 269 should not apply to the acquisition of USAuto because we can show that genuine business purposes existed for the USAuto acquisition and that tax avoidance was not the principal purpose for the merger. Our primary objective of the merger was to seek 13 Table of Contents long-term growth for our stockholders through an acquisition. To that end, we redeployed a significant amount of our existing capital and offered our existing stockholders the right to make a substantial additional investment in the company to facilitate the acquisition of USAuto. If, nevertheless, the IRS were to assert that Code Section 269 applied and if such assertion were sustained, our ability to utilize our existing NOLs would be severely limited or extinguished. Due to the fact that the application of Code Section 269 is ultimately a question of fact, there can be no assurance that the IRS would not prevail if it were to assert the application of Code Section 269. Our losses and loss adjustment expenses may exceed our reserves, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain reserves for the estimated payment of losses and loss adjustment expenses for both reported and unreported claims. The amount of reserves is established and maintained based on historical claims information, industry statistics and other factors. Even with the assistance provided by external actuarial consultants, the establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process due to a number of factors, including the difficulty in predicting the rate of inflation and the rate and direction of changes in trends, ongoing interpretation of insurance policy provisions by courts, inconsistent decisions in lawsuits regarding coverage and broader theories of liability. In addition, ongoing changes in claims settlement practices can lead to changes in loss payment patterns, which are used to estimate reserve levels. If our reserves prove to be inadequate, we would be required to increase them and would charge the amount of such increase to our income in the period that the deficiency is recognized. Due to the inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves, it may be necessary to revise estimated future liabilities as reflected in our reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses The historic development of reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses may not necessarily reflect future trends in the development of these amounts. Consequently, actual losses could materially exceed loss reserves, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen J. Harrison, could negatively affect our ability to conduct our business efficiently and could lead to loss of customers and proprietary information. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience, effort and performance of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen J. Harrison. The loss of the services of Mr. Harrison could have a material adverse effect on us and could hinder our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Harrison that does not have a fixed term of employment, but may be terminated by us or Mr. Harrison at any time. We also maintain a “key man” insurance policy for Mr. Harrison. Our business is highly competitive, which may make it difficult for us to market our core products effectively and profitably. The non-standard personal automobile insurance business is highly competitive. We believe that our primary insurance company competition comes not only from national insurance companies or their subsidiaries, but also from non-standard insurers and independent agents that operate in a specific region or single state in which we also operate. Allstate Insurance Company, Progressive Corporation and Direct General Corporation are all significant providers of non-standard personal automobile insurance in Alabama (excepting Direct General Corporation), Georgia and Tennessee and constitute our largest competitors. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, and they may offer a broader range of products or competing products at lower prices. Our revenues, profitability and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are required to decrease or are unable to increase prices to stay competitive or if we do not successfully retain our current customers and attract new customers. Our business may be adversely affected by negative developments in Georgia, Alabama, and Tennessee. For the year ended June 30, 2005, approximately 46%, 18% and 17% of our gross premiums earned were generated from non-standard personal automobile insurance policies written in Georgia, Alabama and Tennessee, respectively. Our revenues and profitability are affected by the prevailing regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive and other conditions in these states. Changes in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for us to conduct business. Adverse regulatory developments in Georgia, Alabama and Tennessee, which could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, restrictions on rate increases or fundamental changes to the design or implementation of the automobile insurance regulatory framework, could reduce our 14 Table of Contents revenues, increase our expenses or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, these developments could have a greater effect on us, as compared to more diversified insurers that also sell other types of automobile insurance products, write other additional lines of insurance coverages or whose premiums are not as concentrated in a single line of insurance. Our business may be adversely affected by negative developments in the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry. Substantially all of our gross premiums written are generated from sales of non-standard personal automobile insurance policies. As a result of our concentration in this line of business, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, these developments could have a greater effect on us compared to more diversified insurers that also sell other types of automobile insurance products or write other additional lines of insurance. Our results may fluctuate as a result of cyclical changes in the personal automobile insurance industry. The non-standard personal automobile insurance industry is cyclical in nature. In the past, the industry has been characterized by periods of price competition and excess capacity followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity. If new competitors enter this market, existing competitors may attempt to increase market share by lowering rates. Such conditions could lead to reduced prices, which would negatively impact our revenues and profitability. However, we believe that between 2002 and 2004, the underwriting results in the personal automobile insurance industry improved as a result of favorable pricing and competitive conditions that allowed for broad increases in rate levels by insurers. Thus far in 2005, we have witnessed a stabilization or slight reduction in premiums and rates across most states. Given the cyclical nature of the industry, current favorable pricing and competitive conditions may change, which may cause us to reduce rates or to lose customers. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses, which could reduce our profitability. Our results of operations depend, in part, on the performance of our invested assets. As of June 30, 2005 substantially all of our investment portfolio was invested either directly or indirectly in debt securities, primarily in liquid state, municipal, corporate and federal government bonds and collateralized mortgage obligations. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the fair value of, debt securities. Unrealized gains and losses on debt securities are recognized in other comprehensive income and increase or decrease our stockholders’ equity. As of June 30, 2005, the fair value of our investment portfolio exceeded the value at amortized cost by $1.0 million. Interest rates in the United States are currently low relative to recent historical levels. Based on data compiled from Bloomberg L.P., the pretax yield on U.S. Treasury securities with a five-year maturity has declined from approximately 6.3% at December 31, 1999 to approximately 3.6% at December 31, 2004. An increase in interest rates could reduce the fair value of our investments in debt securities. As of June 30, 2005, the impact of an immediate 100 basis point increase in market interest rates on our debt securities portfolio would have resulted in an estimated decrease in fair value of 2.6%, or approximately $2.3 million. In addition, defaults by third parties who fail to pay or perform obligations could reduce our investment income and could also result in investment losses to our portfolio. 15 Table of Contents We rely on our information technology and communication systems, and the failure of these systems could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is highly dependent on the proprietary integrated technology systems that enable timely and efficient communication and data sharing among the various segments of our integrated operations. These systems are used in all our operations, including quotation, policy issuance, customer service, underwriting, claims, accounting, and communications. We have a technical staff that develops, maintains and supports all elements of our technology infrastructure. However, disruption of power systems or communication systems could result in deterioration in our ability to respond to customers’ requests, write and service new business, and process claims in a timely manner. We believe we have appropriate types and levels of insurance to protect our real property, systems, and other assets. However, insurance does not provide full reimbursement for all losses, both direct and indirect, that may result from such an event. We may have difficulties in managing our expansion into new markets. Our future growth plans include expanding into new states by opening new sales offices, acquiring the business and assets of local agencies and introducing additional insurance products. In order to grow our business successfully, we must apply for and maintain necessary licenses, properly design and price our products and identify, hire and train new claims, underwriting and sales employees. In this regard, we currently have applications for licenses to conduct insurance business pending in several states but cannot state with certainty if any or all such applications will be approved. Our expansion will also place significant demands on our management, operations, systems, accounting, internal controls and financial resources. If we fail to do any of one of these well, we may not be able to expand our business successfully. Even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we face the risk that we may acquire business in states in which market and other conditions may not be favorable to us. Any failure by us to manage growth and to respond to changes in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in identifying agency acquisition candidates or integrating their operations, which could harm our financial results. In order to grow our business by acquisition, we must identify agency candidates and integrate the operations of acquired agencies. If we are unable to identify and acquire appropriate agency acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. If we do acquire additional agencies, we could face increased costs, or, if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired agency into our operations, we could experience disruption of our business and distraction of our management, which may not be offset by corresponding increases in revenues. The integration of operations after an acquisition is subject to risks, including, among others, loss of key personnel of the acquired company, difficulty associated with assimilating the personnel and operations of the acquired company, potential disruption of ongoing business, maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and impairment of the acquired company’s reputation and relationships with its employees and clients. Any of these may result in the loss of customers. It is also possible that we may not realize, either at all or in a timely manner, any or all benefits from recent and future acquisitions and may incur significant costs in connection with these acquisitions. Failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions could materially adversely affect the results of our operations. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to statutory capital and surplus requirements and other standards, and their failure to meet these requirements or standards could subject them to regulatory actions. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital standards, which we refer to as RBC standards, and other minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements imposed under the laws of their respective states of domicile. The RBC standards, which are based upon the RBC Model Act adopted by the NAIC, require our insurance company subsidiaries to annually report their results of risk-based capital calculations to the state departments of insurance and the NAIC. Failure to meet applicable risk-based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements could subject our insurance company subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on their writing of additional business, state supervision or even liquidation. Any changes in existing RBC requirements or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements may 16 Table of Contents require our insurance company subsidiaries to increase their statutory capital and surplus levels, which they may be unable to do. As of December 31, 2004, each of our insurance company subsidiaries maintained an RBC level in excess of an amount that would require any corrective actions. State regulators also screen and analyze the financial condition of insurance companies using the NAIC Insurance Regulatory Information System, or IRIS. As part of IRIS, the NAIC database generates key financial ratio results obtained from an insurer’s annual statutory statements. A ratio result falling outside the usual range of IRIS ratios may result in further examination by a state regulator to determine if corrective action is necessary. As of December 31, 2004, each of our insurance company subsidiaries had IRIS ratios outside the usual ranges, but no regulatory authority has informed the insurance company subsidiaries that it intends to conduct a further examination of their financial condition. We cannot assure you that regulatory authorities will not conduct any such examination of the financial condition of our insurance company subsidiaries, or of the outcome of any such investigation. See “Business – Regulatory Environment.” New pricing, claim and coverage issues and class action litigation are continually emerging in the automobile insurance industry, and these new issues could adversely impact our revenues or our methods of doing business. As automobile insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims, coverages and business practices may emerge. These issues can have an adverse effect on our business by changing the way we price our products, extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, requiring us to obtain additional licenses or increasing the size of claims. Recent examples of some emerging issues include: • concerns over the use of an applicant’s credit score or zip code as a factor in making risk selections and pricing decisions; • a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting automobile insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling practices, such as total loss evaluation methodology, the use of aftermarket (non-original equipment manufacturer) parts and the alleged diminution in value to insureds’ vehicles involved in accidents; and • consumer groups lobbying state legislatures to regulate and require separate licenses for individuals and companies engaged in the sale of ancillary products or services. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging issues could negatively affect our revenues or our methods of doing business. Due to our largely fixed cost structure, our profitability may decline if our sales volume were to decline significantly. Our reliance on employee-agents results in a cost structure that has a high proportion of fixed costs. In times of increasing sales volume, our acquisition cost per policy decreases, improving our expense ratio, which we believe is one of the significant advantages of our business model. However, in times of declining sales volume, the opposite would occur. A decline in sales volume could decrease our profitability, cause us to close some of our retail sales offices or lay off some employee-agents to manage our expenses. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophes may result in an increase in the number and amount of claims filed against us. Our business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including natural events, such as severe winter weather, hurricanes, tornados, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, thunderstorms and fires, and other events, such as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and severe weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. Severe weather conditions generally result in more automobile accidents, leading to an increase in the number of claims filed and/or the amount of compensation sought by claimants. 17 Table of Contents In the event that a severe weather condition or other major catastrophe were to occur resulting in property losses to us, we would have to cover such losses using additional resources, which could increase our losses incurred, cause our statutory capital and surplus to fall below required levels or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have purchased reinsurance for certain catastrophic events, which may help limit our losses from such events. To the best of our knowledge, we did not have any significant losses as a result of hurricane Katrina in August 2005. A few of our stockholders have significant control over us, and their interests may differ from yours. Three of our stockholders, Gerald J. Ford, our Chairman of the Board; Stephen J. Harrison, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Thomas M. Harrison, Jr., our Executive Vice President and Secretary, in the aggregate, control 63% of our outstanding common stock. If these stockholders acted or voted together, they would have the power to control the election and removal of our directors. They would also have significant control over other matters requiring stockholder approval, including the approval of major corporate transactions and proposed amendments to our certificate of incorporation. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, as well as frustrate attempts to replace or remove current management, even when a change may be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Furthermore, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of our company or other stockholders. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on paying dividends to us. State insurance laws limit the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends and require our insurance company subsidiaries to maintain specified minimum levels of statutory capital and surplus. Our insurance company subsidiary in Tennessee is required by the Tennessee Department of Commerce and Insurance to maintain statutory capital and surplus of $2,000,000, and our insurance company subsidiary in Georgia is required by the Georgia Department of Insurance to maintain statutory capital and surplus of $3,000,000. These restrictions affect the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends to us and may require our subsidiaries to obtain the prior approval of regulatory authorities, which could slow the timing of such payments to us or reduce the amount that can be paid. To the extent we may need to rely, in part, on receiving dividends from the insurance company subsidiaries, the limit on the amount of dividends that can be paid by the insurance company subsidiaries may affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. The dividend-paying ability of the insurance company subsidiaries is discussed in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. We and our subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision that may restrict our ability to earn profits. We and our subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by the insurance departments in the states where our subsidiaries are domiciled and where our subsidiaries sell insurance and ancillary products, issue policies and handle claims. Certain regulatory restrictions and prior approval requirements may affect our subsidiaries’ ability to operate, change their operations or obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner or may increase our costs and reduce profitability. Among other things, regulation and supervision of us and our subsidiaries extends to: Required Licensing. We and our subsidiaries operate under licenses issued by various state insurance authorities. These licenses govern, among other things, the types of insurance coverages, agency and claims services and motor club products that we and our subsidiaries may offer consumers in the particular state. Such licenses typically are issued only after the filing of an appropriate application and the satisfaction of prescribed criteria. In addition, the licensing procedures of the states in which we and our subsidiaries operate differ somewhat from state-to-state. We and our subsidiaries must determine which licenses, if any, are required in a particular state and apply for and obtain the appropriate licenses before they can implement any plan to expand into a new state or offer a new line of insurance or other new product. If a regulatory authority denies or delays granting such new license, our ability to enter new markets quickly or offer new products can be substantially impaired. Transactions Between Insurance Companies and Their Affiliates. Our insurance company subsidiaries are organized and domiciled under the insurance statutes of Georgia and Tennessee. The insurance laws in these states provide that all transactions among members of an insurance holding company system must be done at arm’s length 18 Table of Contents and shown to be fair and reasonable to the regulated insurer. Transactions between our insurance company subsidiaries and other subsidiaries generally must be disclosed to the state regulators, and prior approval of the applicable regulator generally is required before any material or extraordinary transaction may be consummated. State regulators may refuse to approve or delay approval of such a transaction, which may impact our ability to innovate or operate efficiently. Regulation of Rates and Policy Forms. The insurance laws of most states in which our insurance company subsidiaries operate require insurance companies to file premium rate schedules and policy forms for review and approval. State insurance regulators have broad discretion in judging whether our rates are adequate, not excessive and not unfairly discriminatory. The speed at which we can change our rates in response to market conditions or increasing costs depends, in part, on the method by which the applicable state’s rating laws are administered. Generally, state insurance regulators have the authority to disapprove our requested rates. Thus, if as permitted in some states, we begin using new rates before they are approved, we may be required to issue premium refunds or credits to our policyholders if the new rates are ultimately deemed excessive or unfair and disapproved by the applicable state regulator. In addition, in some states, there has been pressure in past years to reduce premium rates for automobile and other personal insurance or to limit how often an insurer may request increases for such rates. In states where such pressure is applied, our ability to respond to market developments or increased costs in that state may be adversely affected. Investment Restrictions. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of their investment portfolios and that limit the amount of investments in certain categories. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause non-conforming investments to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory capital and surplus and, in some instances, would require divestiture. If a non-conforming asset is treated as a non-admitted asset, it would lower the affected subsidiary’s capital and surplus and thus, its ability to write additional premiums and pay dividends. Restrictions on Cancellation, Non-Renewal or Withdrawal. Many states have laws and regulations that limit an insurer’s ability to exit a market. For example, certain states limit an automobile insurer’s ability to cancel or not renew policies. Some states prohibit an insurer from withdrawing from one or more lines of business in the state, except pursuant to a plan approved by the state insurance department. The state insurance department may disapprove a plan that may lead to market disruption. To date, none of these restrictions has had an impact on our operations or strategic planning in the states in which we operate. However, these laws and regulations that limit cancellations and non-renewals and that subject business withdrawals to prior approval restrictions could limit our ability to exit unprofitable markets or discontinue unprofitable products in the future. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may prevent a takeover or a change in management that you may deem favorable. Our certificate of incorporation contains prohibitions on the transfer of our common stock to avoid limitations on the use of the NOL carryforwards and other federal income tax attributes that we inherited from our predecessor. These restrictions could prevent or inhibit a third party from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation generally prohibits, without the prior approval of our board of directors, any transfer of common stock, any subsequent issue of voting stock or stock that participates in our earnings or growth, and certain options with respect to such stock, if the transfer of such stock or options would (i) cause any group or person to own 4.9% or more, by aggregate value, of the outstanding shares of our common stock, (ii) increase the ownership position of any person or group that already owns 4.9% or more, by aggregate value, of the outstanding shares of our common stock, or (iii) cause any person or group to be treated like the owner of 4.9% or more, by aggregate value, of our outstanding shares of common stock for tax purposes. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also contain the following provisions that could prevent or inhibit a third party from acquiring us: • the requirement that only stockholders owning at least one-third of the outstanding shares of our common stock may call a special stockholders’ meeting; and 19 Table of Contents • the requirement that stockholders owning at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our common stock must approve any amendment to our certificate of incorporation provisions concerning the transfer restrictions and the special stockholders’ meetings. In addition, under our certificate of incorporation, we may issue shares of preferred stock on terms that are unfavorable to the holders of our common stock. Any outstanding shares of preferred stock could also prevent or inhibit a third party from acquiring us. The existence of these provisions could depress the price of our common stock, could delay or prevent a takeover attempt or could prevent attempts to replace or remove incumbent management. Executive Officers of the Registrant Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following information regarding our executive officers is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu of being included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on November 10, 2005. The following table sets forth certain information concerning our executive officers: Name Age Position Stephen J. Harrison 53 President and Chief Executive Officer Thomas M. Harrison, Jr. 55 Executive Vice President and Secretary Charles D. Hamilton 49 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Michael J. Bodayle 49 Chief Financial Officer – Insurance Company Operations William R. Pentecost 47 Chief Information Officer Randy L. Reed 49 Senior Vice President – Sales and Marketing James R. Dickson 39 Senior Vice President – Claims Stephen J. Harrison has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since April 2004. Mr. Harrison co-founded USAuto Insurance Company, Inc., USAuto’s predecessor company, in 1995 and has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of USAuto since USAuto’s inception. He has over 30 years experience in insurance and related industries, including automobile insurance and insurance agency operations. From 1974 to 1991, he served in various capacities with the Harrison Insurance Agency, a family-owned multi-line insurance agency. From 1991 to 1993, Mr. Harrison served as President of Direct Insurance Company, a non-standard automobile insurance company. Mr. Harrison is the brother of Thomas M. Harrison, Jr., who is Executive Vice President and Secretary of the Company. Thomas M. Harrison, Jr. has served as Executive Vice President and Secretary of the Company since April 2004. Mr. Harrison co-founded USAuto Insurance Company, Inc., USAuto’s predecessor company, in 1995 and has served as Vice President and Secretary of USAuto since USAuto’s inception. He has over 30 years experience in insurance and related industries, including automobile insurance and insurance agency operations. From 1976 to 1995, Mr. Harrison served in various capacities with the Harrison Insurance Agency, a family-owned multi-line insurance agency. Mr. Harrison is the brother of Stephen J. Harrison, who is President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Charles D. Hamilton has served as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company since April 2004. Mr. Hamilton was appointed in March 2004 as USAuto’s Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer. He has over 25 years of experience in the insurance industry. From 1986 until 2004, Mr. Hamilton held various executive financial and administrative roles at Willis Group Holdings, including Chief Financial Officer for the U.S. subsidiary, from 1996 until 2003. From 1979 until 1984, Mr. Hamilton was a commercial insurance underwriter for Federated Mutual Insurance of Owatonna, Minnesota. He is also a Certified Public Accountant and a Chartered Property Casualty Underwriter. Michael J. Bodayle has served as Chief Financial Officer – Insurance Company Operations of the Company since April 2004. Mr. Bodayle has been Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer of the insurance company 20 Table of Contents subsidiaries since March 2004 and had served as USAuto’s Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer since July 1998. He has over 25 years of experience focused primarily in the insurance industry, which includes auditing, financial reporting and insurance agency operations. He has over seven years of public accounting experience and was formerly a Senior Audit Manager with Peat, Marwick, Main (now known as KPMG) from 1980 to 1985. From 1985 until 1996, Mr. Bodayle was Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer for Titan Holdings, Inc., a publicly-traded insurance holding company. Mr. Bodayle is also a Certified Public Accountant. William R. Pentecost has been Chief Information Officer of the Company since April 2004. Mr. Pentecost has been USAuto’s Chief Information Officer since USAuto’s inception in 1995. He has over 15 years experience with insurance company information systems. Mr. Pentecost is also a Chartered Property Casualty Underwriter. Randy L. Reed has been Senior Vice President – Sales and Marketing of the Company since April 2004. Mr. Reed has been USAuto’s Vice President – Sales and Marketing since February 1997. Prior to February 1997, Mr. Reed served for over ten years as co-owner and President of Reed Oil Company, Inc., a wholesaler and retailer involved in the oil jobber business. James R. Dickson has been Senior Vice President – Claims of the Company since April 2004. Mr. Dickson has been USAuto’s Vice President – Claims since June 2000. From 1996 to 2000, Mr. Dickson was a principal in the Dickson Company, a claims management company. Prior to that, Mr. Dickson had over eight years of multi-line claims experience with Cunningham Lindsay, U.S. and the Littleton Group. 