Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The current weakness and any further deterioration of the global economic environment could negatively impact the Company’s business, working capital, liquidity, access to the credit markets and business prospects. The current weakness in the global economic environment and the credit and financial markets could negatively impact the Company’s business in several ways. For instance, falling home prices, increases in foreclosure rates, increases in unemployment rates, declines in the equity markets, a tightening of credit availability, and concerns about the general health of the global economy have led to a significant decline in consumer confidence and consumer discretionary spending, which has caused and may continue to cause consumers to delay undertaking or determine not to undertake new home improvement projects, cause a decline in customer transactions overall, cause the Company’s customers to delay purchasing or determining not to purchase Company products, or cause the Company’s customers to extend or implement inventory management programs and consequently adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. Other factors that could adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products and consequently its financial performance include currency exchange rate fluctuations, interest rate fluctuations, fuel and other energy costs, inflation or deflation of commodity prices, slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income, and other factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company intends to delist from the NASDAQ Global Market and deregister its common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which could negatively affect the Company and its stockholders, including having a negative impact on the liquidity and trading prices of the Company’s common stock. On May 29, 2009 the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved the voluntary delisting of its common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market and the deregistering of its common stock under the Exchange Act. The Company expects to file a Form 25, Notification of Removal from Listing and/or Registration under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ on or before July 2, 2009. Upon filing of the Form 25 or shortly thereafter, the Company anticipates that its common stock will be quoted in the over-the-counter market on the Pink Sheets, a centralized electronic quotation service for over-the-counter securities. The Company expects its common stock will continue to trade on the Pink Sheets, so long as market makers continue to make a market in the Company’s common stock. The Company also intends to deregister its common stock and become a non-reporting company under the Exchange Act. On or before July 13, 2009, the Company expects to file a Form 15, Notice of Termination of Registration and Suspension of Duty to File, with the Securities and Exchange Commission to terminate its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. When the Form 15 has been filed, the Company’s obligation to file reports and other information under the Exchange Act, such as Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, will immediately be suspended. Securities quoted on the Pink Sheets generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, including lower trading volumes, delays in the timing of transactions, reduced securities analyst and news coverage, and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. Stockholders may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted on the Pink Sheets or at all. Additionally, the Company’s common stock may be more adversely affected by changes in general market conditions, fluctuations in the Company’s operating results, changes in the market’s perception of the Company’s business, and 11 Table of Contents announcements made by the Company, its competitors or parties with whom it has business relationships. Further, the Company cannot ensure that market makers will make a market in the Company’s common stock or that trading of its common stock will continue on the Pink Sheets. The Company’s common stock not being traded on a national securities exchange could have other adverse effects, including limitations on the Company’s ability to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing it needs in the future, and the loss of confidence in the Company by current or prospective employees, customers, suppliers and others with whom the Company has or may seek to initiate business relationships. Additionally, once the Company’s obligation to file reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Exchange Act is suspended, there will likely be less information publicly available about the Company. The Company depends on a limited number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our business. The Company is substantially dependent on two of its customers, Home Depot and Lowe’s, for a large percentage of its revenues. These two customers accounted for approximately 66% and 61% of the Company’s total net sales in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. The Company expects that it will continue to rely upon these customers for a significant portion of its revenues. Either customer may significantly reduce its orders for the Company’s products for a number of reasons, including changes in demand for the Company’s products, extension or implementation of inventory management programs, delays or changes in scheduled product introductions, or changes in store upgrade or expansion plans. Should this happen, the Company’s revenue could be temporarily or permanently affected, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, including but not limited to exposing the Company to excess inventory levels. Any significant and continuing reduction in business with Home Depot or Lowe’s would have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations and liquidity of the Company. Risks associated with foreign currency exchange fluctuations related to the Company’s financial reporting of its international operations and to its buying in currencies other than the local currencies in which it operates could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position and results of operations. The Company is exposed to foreign currency risks resulting from changes in currency exchange rates because of its international operations and its dependence on Asian suppliers. The deterioration in the global economic environment has resulted in significant volatility in the global currency markets. Most recently, the volatility has resulted in a substantial strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian, European and Australian currencies. A relatively stronger U.S. dollar means that the revenues, profits and losses of our international operations will translate into lower U.S. dollar amounts. Moreover, the general strengthening of the Chinese Renminbi and inflationary pressures in China during the first half of the year put increased pressures on U.S Dollar denominated pricing from major suppliers. The Company does not use forward contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the risks associated with fluctuating exchange rates. Although the Company finances certain foreign operations utilizing debt denominated in the currency of the local operating unit in order to mitigate its foreign currency exposure, the Company cannot predict the effect foreign currency fluctuations will have on its results of operations in future periods. Volatility in currency exchange rates has affected and may continue to affect the Company’s financial results. The Company records foreign currency translation adjustments as other comprehensive income. For fiscal 2009, comprehensive loss resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments was $3.4 million and for fiscal 2008 comprehensive income was $2.1 million. Further fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations in future periods. 12 Table of Contents The Company may be unable to pass on to its customers increases in the costs of raw materials. The prices of many of the Company’s raw materials vary with market conditions. In addition the price of many of the Company’s finished goods is impacted by changes in currency, freight costs and raw materials at the point of production. Over the past two years, the Company’s costs of raw materials and fuel-related costs have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so indefinitely due to the volatility of currency exchange rates and oil, gas and energy costs. Although the Company generally attempts to pass on increases in the costs of raw materials and fuel-related costs to its customers, the Company’s ability to pass these increases on varies depending on the product line, rate and magnitude of any increase. There may be periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. During such periods of time, the Company’s profitability may be materially adversely affected. If the Company is unable to manage its relationships with suppliers or if the domestic and international supply chain for finished products and raw materials is disrupted, the Company’s sales and gross margin would be adversely affected. The Company purchases finished products and raw materials from approximately 150 different suppliers. If the Company is unable to effectively and efficiently manage the relationships with its suppliers, this could negatively impact the Company’s business plan and financial results. Additionally, the Company depends on suppliers that are located both domestically and internationally. Political or financial instability among suppliers, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates and transport capacity and costs are beyond the Company’s control and could negatively impact the Company’s business if they seriously disrupted the movement of products through the Company’s supply chain. The Company’s largest customers may seek to purchase products directly from foreign suppliers. Certain of the Company’s largest customers have in the past contacted one or more of the Company’s foreign suppliers to discuss purchasing home improvement products directly from these suppliers. Although the Company believes that its diversified product line, brand recognition and customer service will continue to offer benefits not otherwise available to the Company’s customers from foreign manufacturers, the Company could experience competition from one or more foreign manufacturers that now serve as suppliers to the Company. The Company has debt service obligations which are subject to restrictive covenants that limit the Company’s flexibility to manage its business and could trigger an acceleration of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness. The Company’s credit facilities require that the Company maintain specific financial ratios, maintain minimum EBITDA and comply with certain covenants, including various financial covenants that contain numerous restrictions on the Company’s ability to incur additional debt, pay dividends or make other restricted payments, sell assets, or take other actions. Furthermore, the Company’s existing credit facilities are, and future financing arrangements are likely to be, secured by substantially all of the Company’s assets. If the Company breaches any of these covenants, a default could result under one or more of these agreements. The Company has in the past violated certain covenants under its credit facilities and cannot provide assurance that it will not violate certain covenants in the future. A default, if not waived by the Company’s lenders, could result in the acceleration of outstanding indebtedness and cause the Company’s debt to become immediately due and payable. In the event of default, if the lenders elect to pursue their remedies under one or more of the credit facilities, including limiting or terminating the Company’s right to borrow, the Company may be unable to obtain the capital it needs to continue its operations as a going concern. The Company could be required to record a significant charge to earnings if it determines that its deferred income taxes, deferred costs, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired. During fiscal 2009, the Company determined that goodwill related to certain of the Company’s reporting units was impaired and recorded a non-cash charge of $7.9 million for the impairment. Future significant declines in the Company’s market capitalization or expected cash flows, or other significant adverse changes in the business climate could result in further goodwill impairment or in the impairment of either deferred costs or other intangible assets. A future write down of its deferred income taxes, deferred costs, goodwill or other intangible assets could result in material non-cash charges that are adverse to our operating results and financial position. 13 Table of Contents The Company’s inability to maintain access to the debt and capital markets may adversely affect our business and financial results The Company’s ability to invest in its business, refinance maturing debt obligations and make strategic acquisitions requires access to sufficient bank credit lines and capital markets to support short-term borrowings and cash requirements. If the Company’s level of cash flow is insufficient and it is unable to access additional resources, the Company could experience a material adverse affect on its business and financial results. The Company may not be able to retain key personnel or replace them when they leave. Senior management changes, including, without limitation to Lewis Gould, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, and Leonard Gould, the Company’s President, could disrupt the Company’s ability to manage its business, and any such disruption could adversely affect the Company’s operations, growth, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s success is also dependent upon its ability to hire and retain qualified finance and accounting, sales, marketing, operations, and other personnel. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary for its planned operations or that the loss of any such personnel will not have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company faces intense competition in its industry, which could decrease demand for its products and could have a material adverse effect on its profitability. The Company’s industry is highly competitive. The Company faces competition from a large number of manufacturers and independent distributors. Many of its competitors are larger and have greater resources and access to capital than the Company. In order to maintain the Company’s competitive position, the Company will need to continue to develop new products and expand its customer base both domestically and internationally. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the Company’s products. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company has been, and in the future may be subject to claims and liabilities under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could be significant. The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances governing activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water, and handling and disposal practices for solid, special and hazardous wastes. The activities of the Company, including its manufacturing operations at its owned and leased facilities, are subject to the requirements of Environmental Laws. The Company has received various notices from state and federal agencies that it may be responsible for certain environmental remediation activities and is, or has been, a defendant in environmental litigation. Although the Company is not currently aware of any situation requiring remedial or other action that would involve a material expense to the Company or expose the Company to material liability under Environmental Laws, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will not incur any material liability under Environmental Laws in the future or that it will not be required to expend funds in order to effect compliance with applicable Environmental Laws, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company and its independent auditors have identified material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and the Company cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. The Company and its independent auditors have identified material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting relating to the Company’s procedures for (i) the reconciliation and elimination of intercompany balances, and (ii) the local 14 Table of Contents preparation and review of the financial results of its foreign subsidiaries. A material weakness in internal control over financial reporting is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Although the Company has implemented, and continues to implement, various measures to improve internal control over financial reporting, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to remedy the material weaknesses that have been identified or that additional material weaknesses will not be identified by the Company or its independent auditors. Any failure to remediate the material weaknesses identified by the Company and its independent auditors or to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company’s operating results, cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in the Company’s financial statements. Any such failure could affect the ability of the Company’s management to certify that the Company’s internal controls are effective when it provides an assessment of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and could affect the results of the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm’s attestation report when it becomes applicable for the year ending February 28, 2010. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of the Company’s stock. For more discussion, see “Controls and Procedures” beginning on page 26. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 