ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because of our reliance on significant customers and large orders, failures to obtain a sufficient number of large contracts has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our revenues for one or more periods. A significant portion of our revenue comes from large financial commitments by a small number of customers, including both telecommunications carriers and large enterprises. We expect to continue to depend on a limited number of customers in any given period for a significant portion of our revenue and, in turn, to be dependent on their continuing success and positive financial results and condition. These large customers may result from one-time competitive procurements or from repeat purchases from distributors, OEMs or other strategic partners. We may not prevail in one or more of the procurements, and our distributors may increase or suspend purchases of our products and services at any time. If we fail to continue to receive orders from such customers, or if any one or more of these customers suffers a downturn, our financial results will suffer. Our revenues and liquidity also may vary significantly from quarter to quarter based upon the delivery schedules of our large contracts, particularly extensions or delays in the delivery schedule arising from customer decisions or requirements. In 2007, we were not able to book some of the larger contracts we were pursuing and customer schedules under large existing contracts did not allow us to deliver products and record the revenue. Our results from operations were adversely affected, and in this most recent twelve months, the effects were significant resulting in our having large losses for the year. We have experienced severe liquidity demands as a result of revenue shortfalls. The cumulative losses in the previous year created a significant liquidity problem for the Company. In June of 2007 we raised $4.2 million of convertible debt financing that provided working capital and in conjunction with the April 2007 reduction in operating expenses by approximately $3.0 million per annum achieved primarily through a reduction in personnel and personnel related costs, we have reduced our liquidity demands. To avoid future liquidity problems we must increase revenues or we will have to raise additional capital. This financing, or any other financing that may be available to us, is likely to be more expensive than previous financings and there is no assurance that future financings can be closed. Our products must be continuously updated to work with changing technology and demand for our products could be impacted by any competitors introducing more advanced technology. To maintain and improve demand for our products, we must continue to develop and introduce value-added, timely and cost effective new products, features and services that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. Any failure to do this will limit the market into which we can sell our products and services. We have recently introduced new software products such as Parent Patrol® and are pursuing the development of others. These products have not yet achieved wide spread market acceptance, and the sales cycle for these products is longer than our other products and services, ranging from 12 to 24 months. With our increasing focus on sales of our Patrol Suite of products to carriers, our ability to achieve significant revenue growth may depend increasingly on the acceptance of these products and related services. Further, customers are always looking for the most advanced technology available, within certain price ranges. To the extent that competitors can offer more advanced technology within a given price range, our sales would be adversely affected. Further, customer technology upgrades can lead to sometimes lengthy delays in orders for our products until their system upgrades are complete and they are in a position to have our products installed as part of their new systems. -20- An inability to move to over-the-counter bulletin board, coupled with our recent delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market could reduce the marketability of our shares and our ability to raise equity capital could be harmed. Our common stock was recently delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. We are currently trading on the “Pink Sheets,” but are also seeking to move to the over-the-counter bulletin board to increase the market for our common stock. If we are unable to move to over-the-counter bulletin board, this could make it more difficult for investors to sell our shares, may cause the price of our common stock to decline to reflect this and may make it more difficult or expensive for us to raise additional equity capital in the future. In addition, since our common stock has been delisted, it comes within the definition of “penny stock” as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is covered by Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. That rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, Rule 15g-9’s applicability affects the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell our securities, and accordingly affects the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in a public market and limits our ability to raise additional equity capital in the future. We may be unable to repay the notes issued in our recent private placement unless we raise additional funds or satisfy those notes in shares of common stock. The $4.2 million of senior secured convertible notes issued to the selling stockholders in our recent private placement must be repaid in cash unless certain conditions exist that allow us to repay such notes in shares of common stock, including that the market price of our common stock is 10% or more above the conversion price and that the stock portion of any repayment not exceed 100% of the daily trading volume of our common stock without consent of the investors. We have only a limited right to defer a specified number of monthly installments. Since the daily trading volume of our common stock has been well below the amount needed to allow us to pay in stock, and since the recent market price of our common stock has been well below the conversion price, our ability to repay the notes will depend upon the willingness of the investors to accept repayment in stock or on our having or raising the cash needed to repay. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds to repay these notes and meet our operating needs. We may cease to comply with the restrictive financial covenants in our recent private placement. The notes issued in our recent private placement contain restrictive financial covenants, including requirements to maintain: • certain levels of tangible net worth (as described on Schedule 3 to the Notes), • certain levels of cash (as described on Schedule 3 to the Notes), • certain levels of EBITDA (as described on Schedule 3 to the Notes) • quarterly revenues of not less than $3,000,0000 and • eligible working capital of not less than $4,200,000. These financial covenants are more extensive than those in the lines of credit we had in place before this financing, and in the past we have had to request waivers from our lenders to avoid default because of our non-compliance with financial covenants. Any future default, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding under the notes, and we do not expect to have sufficient funds to make full payment of the principal amount of the notes in the event of acceleration. In addition, our ability to obtain future financing may depend upon our ability to show at that time pro forma compliance with the covenants through the maturity date of the notes. We cannot assure you that we will remain in compliance with the financial covenants. -21- The anti-dilution rights in our recent private placement may make it difficult for us to raise funds and may result in a significant increase in the number of shares issuable under the notes and warrants. In the recent private placement we granted the investors an anti-dilution right known as a “ratchet,” under which the note conversion price and warrant exercise price would decrease, and accordingly the number of shares issuable under the notes and warrants would increase, in the event we make subsequent issuances of equity at a price less than the note conversion price and warrant exercise price, unless the anti-dilution provision is waived or modified by the note holders. If the subsequent issuance is at a significantly lower price, the increase in the number of shares could be substantial, causing existing stockholders to suffer significant dilution in ownership interests and voting rights. These provisions also may inhibit our ability to raise additional equity capital while the notes and warrants are outstanding. Other provisions from our recent private placement could make it more difficult for us to raise financing in the future. We also agreed in the documents for the recent private placement not to incur any senior debt and not to incur more than $2.5 million of subordinated debt. Further, substantially all of our assets have been pledged to secure certain indebtedness under the notes and we have agreed not to pledge any assets to support other indebtedness. With respect to equity offerings, we have granted the investors a right of first refusal, for as long as the notes are outstanding, to participate in any subsequent equity financing that we conduct. We also have granted an anti-dilution right known as a ratchet, described more fully in the preceding paragraph. Further, we have agreed to use all proceeds of any equity or debt financing to fund an offering to repurchase the notes plus a 25% premium. These provisions may hamper our ability to raise additional capital while the notes are outstanding. Demand for our Parent Patrol® product has not developed as rapidly as expected and overall demand is still uncertain We have been projecting for a couple of years a strong growth in the demand for the technology underlying our Parent Patrol® and related products, based upon market research and other factors. However, while the number of contracts for these products is growing, and reports on consumer desires for this capability still show that demand should be increasing, we have not yet seen the revenue growth that we have been expecting. Carriers have been slower to embrace and implement this technology than anticipated, and the increase in interest following AT&T’s introduction of a product in this space may not continue. Since we are continuing to invest in this product line, the demand for this technology is expected to have a significant impact on our results of operations and ability to return to profitability. The adverse conditions in the telecommunications industry continue despite improvements in the economy and may continue to do so. Our business and financial results are highly dependent on the telecommunications industry and the capital spending of our customers. Over the past four or five years capital spending by telecommunication companies has been at reduced levels. Telecommunications products and services have increasingly become commodities that cannot easily be distinguished, leading to lower margins and reduced spending on costly software. The reduction of spending by companies in the telecommunication industries has caused, and may continue to cause, a significant reduction in our revenues. Although over the past fiscal year we experienced an increase in demand from certain types of customers, other areas of our business have experienced continued weakness in demand and unwillingness of customers to spend significant sums on procuring new Convergent Mediation™ or OSS solutions products or services. Unless we continue to maintain existing strategic alliances and develop new ones, our sales will suffer. Our results could suffer further if we are unable to maintain existing and develop additional strategic alliances with leading providers of telecommunications services and network equipment who serve as distributors for our products. If we are not able to maintain these strategic alliances, we will not be able to expand our distribution channels and provide additional exposure for our product offerings. These relationships can take significant periods of time and work to develop, and may require the development of additional products or features or the offering of support services we do not presently offer. Failure to maintain particular relationships may limit our access to certain countries or geographic areas unless we are able to enter into new relationships with companies that can offer improved access. -22- Many of our telecommunications customers involve credit risks for us. Many of our customers present potential credit risks, and we are dependent on a small number of major customers. The majority of our customers are in the telecommunication services industry and government sector, or are in the early stages of development when financial resources may be limited. Five customers represented 51% of our gross trade receivables balance as of June 30, 2007. Because we depend on a small number of major customers, and many of our customers present potential credit risks for different reasons, our results of operations could be adversely affected by non-payment or slow-payment of receivables. For a more detailed discussion of doubtful accounts please read the section labeled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Allowance for Bad Debts.” Several of our international customers have negotiated extended payment terms, further separating the time payment is received from when costs are incurred. We are increasingly subject to the risks and costs of international sales, and failure to manage these risks would have an adverse effect on us. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from international sales and are therefore subject to the risks of conducting business overseas, including the general economic conditions in each country, the overlap of different tax structures, the difficulty in managing resources in various countries, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, foreign currency translations and longer payment cycles. We derived approximately 57%, 57%, and 69% of our revenue from customers outside of the United States for fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. To the extent that we have increased our international revenue sources over the last three years, the impact of the risks related to international sales could have an increasingly larger effect on our financial condition as a whole. Continuing market consolidation may reduce the number of potential customers for our products. The North American communications industry has experienced significant consolidation. In the future, there may be fewer potential customers requiring operations support systems and related services, increasing the level of competition in the industry. In addition, larger, consolidated communication companies have strengthened their purchasing power, which could create a decline in our pricing structure and a decrease of the margins we can realize. These larger consolidated companies are also striving to streamline their operations by combining different communications systems and the related operations support systems into one system, reducing the number of vendors needed. The continuing industry consolidation may cause us to lose more customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market consolidation within the UK service provider market has reduced the number of customers for our products and has begun to erode our existing customer base within this group. Failure to replace these customers will have a negative impact upon future operating results. Failure to estimate accurately the resources necessary to complete fixed-price contracts would have an adverse effect on our bottom line. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources required for a project or a failure to complete contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the projected plan may result in lower than expected project margins or project losses, which would negatively impact operating results. Our sales are formalized in agreements that may include customization of the underlying software and services. These agreements require projections related to allocation of employees and other resources. Additionally, we may fix the price of an arrangement before the final requirements are finalized. On occasion, we have, and may be required in the future, to commit unanticipated additional resources to complete projects, and the estimated fixed price may not include this unanticipated increase of resources. If our original projections are not met, project losses may occur that would have a negative impact on our operating results. -23- Inability to forecast revenue accurately may result in costs that are out of line with revenues, leading either to additional losses or downsizing that may not have been necessary. We may not be able to accurately forecast the timing of our revenue recognition due to the difficulty of anticipating compliance with the accounting requirements for revenue recognition and to the fact that we historically have generated a disproportionate amount of our operating revenues toward the end of each quarter. Our operating results historically have varied from fiscal period to fiscal period. Accordingly, our financial results in any particular fiscal period are not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. We may be subject to additional risks The risks and uncertainties described above are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business operations. 