ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not based on historical fact are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management including, without limitation, our expectations regarding results of operations, selling and marketing expenses, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, the sufficiency of our cash for future operations, and the success of our cardiovascular business and clinical trials. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “could,” “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “continue,” or similar terms, variations of such terms or the negative of those terms. We cannot assure investors that our assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking statements. Such factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those factors discussed below. We undertake no intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR REVENUES ARE DERIVED FROM SALES OF ONE PRODUCT LINE. We derive a substantial portion of our ongoing revenues from sales of our CardioSEAL®, STARFlex® and BioSTAR® products. As demand for, and costs associated with, these products fluctuates, including the potential impact of our revenue and non-revenue producing PFO IDE clinical trials on product sales, our financial results on a quarterly or annual basis may be significantly impacted. Accordingly, events or circumstances adversely affecting the sales of any of these products would directly and adversely impact our business. These events or circumstances may include reduced demand for our products, lack of regulatory approvals, product liability claims and/or increased competition. We were contacted by the FDA to review our existing HDE, which was approved more than seven years ago. Since the HDE was approved, clinical conditions have significantly changed and the subset of patients who once qualified for consideration for PFO closure has increased beyond 4,000, the limit normally allowed under the HDE indication. Effective October 31, 2006, as a result and in connection with the CARS study, we voluntarily withdrew the HDE granted by the FDA on February 1, 2000 for our CardioSEAL® Septal Repair System for closure of PFO. At this time, we are unable to predict whether our action and the actions of the FDA will continue to have a negative impact on our product revenue. However, it is expected that sales growth in the United States will be limited until further regulatory approvals are obtained. The withdrawal did not reflect a device safety issue. CardioSEAL® will continue to be commercially available in the United States under the PMA indication for ventricular septal defect, or VSD. WE MAY FACE UNCERTAINTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE EXECUTION, COST AND ULTIMATE OUTCOME OF CLOSURE I. Upon receipt of final FDA approval, we commenced our CLOSURE I study in June 2003. On April 23, 2007, we announced that we received conditional approval from the FDA for our revised study hypothesis and statistical plan in the CLOSURE I PFO/stroke and TIA trial in the U.S. Based on an analysis, the conditional probability of a statistically significant benefit at the end of the data reviewed will require an enrollment of 900 patients, of which approximately 800 patients are already enrolled. The original CLOSURE I statistical plan required an enrollment of 1,600 patients. We currently anticipate that when completed, study data from CLOSURE I will be used to support a PFO PMA application. We currently estimate the total costs of CLOSURE 16 Table of Contents I to be approximately $22 to $24 million through completion of the clinical trial and submission to the FDA. We have limited direct experience conducting a clinical trial of this magnitude. We cannot be certain that patient enrollment will be completed at all. We cannot be certain that the projected costs of CLOSURE I will not need to be adjusted upwards, primarily related to the extended enrollment period. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that we will obtain a PMA from the FDA based upon the final results of the trial. If CLOSURE I does not result in a PMA, we may face uncertainties and/or limitations as to the continued growth of revenues of our CardioSEAL® and STARFlex® products, which may impact our profitability. WE FACE UNCERTAINTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE AVAILABILITY OF THIRD-PARTY REIMBURSEMENT. In the United States, Medicare, Medicaid and other government insurance programs, as well as private insurance reimbursement programs, greatly affect revenues for suppliers of health care products and services. Such third-party payors may affect the pricing or relative attractiveness of our products by regulating the maximum amount, if any, of reimbursement which they provide to the physicians and hospitals using our devices, or any other products that we may develop. If, for any reason, the third-party payors decided not to provide reimbursement for our products, our ability to sell our products would be materially adversely affected. Moreover, mounting concerns about rising healthcare costs may cause the government or private insurers to implement more restrictive coverage and reimbursement policies in the future. In the international market, reimbursement by private third-party medical insurance providers and by governmental insurers and providers varies from country to country. In certain countries, our ability to achieve significant market penetration may depend upon the availability of third-party governmental reimbursement. WE MAY FACE UNCERTAINTIES WITH RESPECT TO COMMERCIALIZATION, PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS. We cannot be certain that our current products, or products currently under development, will achieve or maintain market acceptance. Certain of the medical indications that can be treated by our devices can also be treated by surgery, drugs or other medical devices. Currently, the medical community widely accepts many alternative treatments, and these other treatments have a long history of use. We cannot be certain that our devices and procedures will be able to replace such established treatments or that either physicians or the medical community, in general, will accept and utilize our devices or any other medical products that we may develop. In addition, our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new and improved implant technology products. Even if we determine that a product candidate has medical benefits, the cost of commercializing that product candidate may be too high to justify development. In addition, competitors may develop products that are more effective, cost less or are ready for commercial introduction before our products. If we are unable to develop additional, commercially viable products, our future prospects will be limited. AS A RESULT OF GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS, WE MAY EXPERIENCE LOWER SALES AND EARNINGS. The manufacture and sale of medical devices intended for commercial distribution are subject to extensive governmental regulations in the United States and abroad. Medical devices generally require pre-market clearance or pre-market approval prior to commercial distribution. Certain material changes or modifications to medical devices are also subject to regulatory review and clearance or approval. The regulatory approval process is expensive, uncertain and lengthy. If granted, the approval may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. In addition, any products that we manufacture or distribute are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our products on a timely basis or at all. The occurrence of any of the following events could materially affect our business: • delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, regulatory approvals or clearances; • the loss of previous approvals or clearances, including our voluntary withdrawal of our PFO HDE; 17 Table of Contents • the ability to enroll patients and charge for implants in the CARS IDE; • limitations on the intended use of a device imposed as a condition of regulatory approvals or clearances; and • our failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements. In addition, sales of medical device products outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. Failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements also could materially affect our business. REVENUE GENERATED BY CARS IDE MAY BE LIMITED. In August 2006, we announced FDA approval for a new PFO/stroke IDE, called CARS. The CARS IDE will supplement our ongoing CLOSURE I clinical trial to evaluate the connection between PFO and stroke. We will provide eligible patients of both CARS and CLOSURE I with our newer STARFlex® implant technology. Patients previously covered by the HDE only had access to our original CardioSEAL® device. The CARS IDE will provide continued PFO closure access to certain patients who previously were eligible for treatment under the HDE. However, while patients in the CLOSURE I trial receive the implant at no cost, those covered under the CARS IDE can be charged for the device. We anticipate a shift of some recurrent stroke patients with PFOs to the CARS IDE from the original HDE because patients will have access to the newer STARFlex® technology. At this time it is difficult to determine the impact on product revenue in the U.S. as a result of the transition from paid-for HDE devices to the paid-for devices under CARS. We believe the CARS IDE is a significant competitive achievement for us and is necessary to accommodate the growing demand for more advanced PFO/stroke treatments. OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS AND RELATED PRODUCT SALES MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY A REDUCTION OR INTERRUPTION IN SUPPLY AND AN INABILITY TO OR DELAYS IN DEVELOPING ALTERNATIVE SOURCES OF SUPPLY. We procure certain components from a sole supplier in connection with the manufacture of some of our products. While we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, we cannot guarantee that those efforts will continue to be successful. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of governmental regulatory bodies, both in the U.S. and abroad, regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to move quickly enough to establish alternative sources for these components. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, would adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely and cost effective manner and, accordingly, could potentially negatively impact our related product sales. WE MAY FACE CHALLENGES IN EXECUTING OUR FOCUSED BUSINESS STRATEGY. As a result of the 2001 sale of our vena cava filter product line and the 2002 sale of our neurosciences business unit, we have focused our business growth strategy to concentrate on the developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling of our cardiac septal repair implant devices used for structural heart repair. Our future sales growth and financial results depend almost exclusively upon the growth of sales of this product line. CardioSEAL®, STARFlex® and BioSTAR® product sales may not grow as quickly as we expect for various reasons, including, but not limited to, delays in receiving further FDA approvals for additional indications and product enhancements, difficulties in recruiting additional experienced sales and marketing personnel and increased competition. This focus has placed significant demands on our senior management team and other resources. Our future success will depend on our ability to manage and implement our focused business strategy effectively, including: • achieving successful stroke-related clinical trials; • developing next generation product lines; 18 Table of Contents • improving our sales and marketing capabilities; • improving our ability to successfully manage inventory as we expand production; • continuing to train, motivate and manage our employees; and • developing and improving our operational, financial and other internal systems. WE MAY NEED TO RAISE DEBT OR EQUITY FUNDS IN THE FUTURE. In the future, considering our anticipated significant spending on clinical trials, we may require additional funds for our research and product development programs, regulatory processes, preclinical and clinical testing, sales, marketing and manufacturing infrastructure and programs and potential licenses and acquisitions. On October 19, 2006, we announced that we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC. The shelf registration statement will permit us to offer and sell up to $65 million of equity or debt securities. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our stockholders, and additional debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the level of sales of our products, the progress of our research and development programs, the progress of clinical testing, the time and cost involved in obtaining regulatory approvals, the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, competing technological and market developments, developments and changes in our existing research, licensing and other relationships and the terms of any collaborative, licensing and other similar arrangements that we may establish. We do not currently have any existing line of credit arrangements, and we may not be able to obtain any such credit facilities on acceptable terms, if at all. WE MAY FACE UNCERTAINTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE EXECUTION, COST AND ULTIMATE OUTCOME OF MIST. In November 2004, we received approval to initiate our MIST clinical study in the United Kingdom. This study was designed to evaluate the effectiveness of structural heart repair (transcatheter closure of a PFO) in the treatment and prevention of migraine headaches. Patient enrollment was completed in early July 2005, with follow-up evaluations over a six-month period. Preliminary results of MIST, which we released on March 13, 2006, found that over 60% of those screened had a right to left shunt. A shunt is a heart defect, which allows blood to cross from the right to left chambers of the heart, bypassing the lungs. Of those patients, almost 40% had a moderate or large PFO, six times greater than the general population. MIST results also indicated that approximately 42% of the patients treated with our STARFlex® technology had a reduction in migraine headache days of at least 50%. The total costs of MIST, including third-party contracts, agreements with clinical sites and other service providers, were approximately $4.9 million. While the results of MIST represented proof of concept and a statistically significant treatment effect, we cannot be certain of the market acceptance of PFO closure as a treatment for certain migraine patients in Europe. Patients enrolled in MIST have an opportunity to consent to be treated and/or monitored as part of a follow-up study (MIST III). Results of the MIST study were published online on March 3, 2008 in the peer-reviewed journal, Circulation. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS AND MAY FACE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENT CLAIMS. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot be certain that: • any of our pending patent applications or any future patent applications will result in issued patents; • the scope of our patent protection will exclude competitors or provide competitive advantages to us; • any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged; or • others will not claim rights in or ownership of the patents and other proprietary rights held by us. 19 Table of Contents Furthermore, we cannot be certain that others have not or will not develop similar products, duplicate any of our products or design around any patents issued, or that may be issued, in the future to us or to our licensors. Whether or not patents are issued to us or to our licensors, others may hold or receive patents which contain claims having a scope that covers products developed by us. We could incur substantial costs in defending any patent infringement suits or in asserting any patent rights, including those granted by third parties. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights from third parties. There can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our issued U.S. patents, and corresponding foreign patents, expire at various dates ranging from 2008 to 2025. When each of our patents expires, competitors may develop and sell products based on the same or similar technologies as those covered by the expired patent. We have invested in significant new patent applications, and we cannot be certain that any of these applications will result in an issued patent to enhance our intellectual property rights. WE RELY ON A SMALL GROUP OF SENIOR EXECUTIVES, AND INTENSE INDUSTRY COMPETITION FOR QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES COULD AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN NECESSARY, QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. We rely on a small group of senior executives and in the medical device field, there is intense competition for qualified personnel, such that we cannot be assured that we will be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Both the loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, would be detrimental to our anticipated growth and expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise. The failure to attract and retain such personnel could adversely affect our business. ROYALTY INCOME WILL DECREASE. For the year ended December 31, 2007, net royalty income increased approximately 15% compared to the period ended December 31, 2006. Net royalty revenues for the period ended December 31, 2006, included $500,000 related to the AGA settlement and the issuance of a sublicense to AGA. This increase has been directly attributable to higher sales by Bard of its RNF product, for which Bard received FDA approval for commercial sales and use as of December 31, 2002. We cannot be certain that the recent trend of Bard’s RNF sales can be sustained or even maintained at its current level. Furthermore, these sales levels could fluctuate on a quarter-to-quarter basis. We have incurred virtually no operating expenses, other than royalties paid, related to our net royalty income and, therefore, future increases or decreases, if any, in the level of Bard’s RNF sales could have a material effect on net income (loss) in future periods. Beginning in 2008, the royalty rate we receive from Bard will decrease substantially from its current rate, while the royalty rate we pay to the estate of the original inventor of these products will remain the same. This will result in a net royalty expense that will be reflected in general and administrative expenses. OUR LIMITED MANUFACTURING HISTORY AND THE POSSIBILITY OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH MANUFACTURING REGULATIONS RAISE UNCERTAINTIES WITH RESPECT TO OUR ABILITY TO COMMERCIALIZE FUTURE PRODUCTS. We have a limited history in manufacturing our products, including our CardioSEAL®, STARFlex® and BioSTAR® structural heart repair implants, and we may face difficulties as the commercialization of our products and the medical device industry changes. Increases in our manufacturing costs, or significant delays in our manufacturing process, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The FDA and other regulatory authorities require that our products be manufactured according to rigorous standards including, but not limited to, Good Manufacturing Practices and International Standards Organization, or ISO, standards. These regulatory requirements may significantly increase our production or purchasing costs 20 Table of Contents and may even prevent us from making or obtaining our products in amounts sufficient to meet market demand. If we or a third-party manufacturer change our approved manufacturing process, the FDA will require a new approval before that process could be used. Failure to develop our manufacturing capabilities may mean that, even if we develop promising new products, we may not be able to produce them profitably, as a result of delays and additional capital investment costs. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY GROW OUR PRODUCT REVENUES OR EXPAND GEOGRAPHICALLY DUE TO LIMITED MARKETING AND SALES EXPERIENCE. Our structural heart repair implant devices are marketed primarily through our direct sales force. Since 2001, we have increased our combined U.S. and European sales and marketing organization headcount from 9 to 31. Because we had marketed our initial products, such as stents and vena cava filters, through third parties, we have limited experience marketing our products directly. We are uncertain that we can furthur expand geographically in Europe or other potential markets for our products. In order to market directly the CardioSEAL®, STARFlex® and BioSTAR® septal implants and any related products, we will have to continue to develop a marketing and sales organization with technical expertise and distribution capabilities. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY BECAUSE OF INTENSE COMPETITION AND RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE IN OUR INDUSTRY. The medical device industry is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and intense competition. Existing and future products, therapies, technological approaches and delivery systems will continue to compete directly with our products. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, greater research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources and experience and greater name recognition than we do. In addition, new surgical procedures and medications could be developed that replace or reduce the importance of current or future procedures that utilize our products. As a result, any products that we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses incurred in connection with development of these products. AN ADVERSE OUTCOME IN ANY LITIGATION WE ARE CURRENTLY INVOLVED IN COULD AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are currently involved in litigation as described in Part I, Item 3 (Legal Proceedings). An adverse outcome involving this matter could result in substantial monetary damages and/or negatively impact our ability to use intellectual property and, therefore, negatively impact our business. PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS, PRODUCT RECALLS AND UNINSURED OR UNDERINSURED LIABILITIES COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. The testing, marketing and sale of implantable devices and materials carry an inherent risk that users will assert product liability claims against us or our third-party distributors. In these claims, users might allege that their use of our devices had adverse effects on their health. A product liability claim or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain of our devices are designed to be used in life-threatening situations where there is a high risk of serious injury or death. Although we currently maintain limited product liability insurance coverage, we cannot be certain that in the future we will be able to maintain such coverage on acceptable terms, or that current insurance or insurance subsequently obtained will provide adequate coverage against any or all potential claims. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that we will avoid significant product liability claims and the attendant adverse publicity. Any product liability claim, or other claim, with respect to uninsured or underinsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. OUR EXPANDING EUROPEAN OPERATIONS EXPOSE US TO RISK INHERENT IN FOREIGN OPERATIONS. As we increase our presence in Europe and Canada following the receipt of a CE Mark (Europe) and HPB approval (Canada) for our BioSTAR® technology, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our revenue and expenses could have an adverse impact on our worldwide profitability. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 