ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included in this report in evaluating the Company and our business. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. We receive from Televisa a significant amount of our network programming and we are engaged in litigation with Televisa. We receive substantial amounts of programming for our three networks from Televisa pursuant to our PLA with Televisa, and a separate letter agreement of the same date (referred to as the “Soccer Agreement”) granting us rights to rebroadcast Televisa’s feeds of certain Mexican League soccer games. The programming we receive under the PLA accounts for a majority of our prime time programming and a substantial portion of the overall programming on all three networks. We currently pay a license fee to Televisa for programming, which is subject to certain upward adjustments. In June 2005, Televisa began litigation against us. Televisa’s current claims include breach for our alleged failure to pay Televisa royalties attributable to revenues from certain programs and from our use of unsold time to promote assets, the Company’s alleged unauthorized editing of certain Televisa programs and related copyright infringement claims, a claimed breach of the Soccer Agreement, a claim that we did not cooperate with various Televisa audit rights and efforts and a claim that we have not been properly carrying out a provision of the PLA that gives Televisa the secondary right to use our unsold advertising inventory. Televisa currently asserts that we were in material breach of the PLA and the Soccer Agreement, thereby giving Televisa the right to suspend or terminate those agreements. To date, mediation has failed. Televisa is seeking a declaration that we are in material breach of the PLA, that Televisa has the right to suspend or terminate its performance under the PLA and that Televisa may, without liability to Univision, transmit or permit others to transmit any television programming into the United States from Mexico over or by means of the Internet. We intend to continue to defend the litigation and pursue our counterclaims vigorously and plan to take all action necessary to ensure Televisa’s continued performance under the PLA until its expiration in 2017. If we were held to be in material breach and unable to effect a timely cure, Televisa could elect to terminate the PLA and the Soccer Agreement, and we could be required to pay monetary damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. The programming we receive from Televisa has been very popular and it has helped us to achieve high ratings and grow our audience share. If Televisa were to stop providing us programming for any reason, it could be difficult to develop or acquire replacement programming of comparable quality whether on similar terms or at all, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the popularity of our network and TV stations, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The trial is scheduled to commence April 29, 2008. For a description of the litigation process, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” Cancellations, reductions or postponements of advertising could reduce our revenues. We have in the past derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a significant amount of our revenues from advertisers. Other than some television network advertising that is presold on an annual basis, we generally have not obtained, and we do not expect to obtain, long-term commitments from advertisers. Therefore, advertisers 14 Table of Contents generally may cancel, reduce or postpone orders without penalty. Cancellations, reductions or postponements in purchases of advertising could, and often do, occur as a result of a strike; a general economic downturn; an economic downturn in one or more industries that have historically invested more in advertising; an economic downturn in one or more major markets such as New York, Los Angeles or Miami-Fort Lauderdale; changes in population, demographics, audience preferences and other factors beyond our control; or a failure to agree on contractual terms with advertisers. In addition, major incidents of terrorism, war, natural disasters or similar events may require us to program without any advertising. Any material cancellations, reductions, or postponements of advertising for any of the foregoing reasons could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We could be adversely affected by strikes or other union job actions. We are directly or indirectly dependent upon highly specialized union members who are essential to the production of motion pictures and television programs. A strike by, or a lockout of, one or more of the unions that provide personnel essential to the production of motion pictures or television programs could delay or halt our ongoing production activities. Such a halt or delay, depending on the length of time, could cause a delay or interruption in our release of new motion pictures and television programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. On October 31, 2007, the television business’ collective bargaining agreement with the Writers Guild of America (East and West) (the “WGA”) covering freelance writers expired. On November 5, 2007, the WGA began an industry-wide strike which ended on February 12, 2008. The full impact of the WGA strike has not been determined. In addition, the Screen Actors Guild’s (“SAG”) major contracts with the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers will expire in June 2008 and there is no assurance that the SAG will not begin an industry-wide strike once their contracts expire. If a strike were to occur in the future and continue for an extended period of time, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Lack of audience acceptance of our content could decrease our ratings and, therefore, our revenues. Television and radio content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a television or radio program, and from the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with the program, depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public. The commercial success of a television or radio program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general or specific geographic economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are outside our control. Other television and radio stations may change their formats or programming, a new station may adopt a format to compete directly with one or more of our stations, or stations might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. Certain of the English-language networks and others have begun producing Spanish-language programming and simulcasting certain programming in English and Spanish. A decrease in our audience acceptance because of these factors can lead to lower ratings. Rating points are the primary factors that are weighed when determining the advertising rates that we receive. Poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. As a result of the unpredictability of program performance and of competition, our stations’ audience ratings, market shares and advertising revenues may decline. Our music business is dependent on identifying, signing and retaining artists with long-term, potential, whose debut albums are well received on release, whose subsequent albums are anticipated by consumers and whose music will continue to generate sales as part of our catalog for years to come. Our financial results may be adversely affected by the absence of superstar artist releases during a particular period. 15 Table of Contents We acquire programming (including sports programming) and make long-term creative talent commitments in advance of a season and in some cases make multi-year commitments even though we cannot predict the ratings they will generate. Similarly in our music business, we make long-term commitments with artists well before an album is produced. A shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of such programming or music could lead to lower revenue and may prohibit us from recouping these upfront costs through corresponding revenues which could lead to decreased profitability. In addition, we must still pay the same program license fees pursuant to the PLA even if the programming supplied under the PLA is no longer popular or is not utilized to the same extent as the programming that was previously utilized. We may replace unpopular programming before we recapture any significant portion of the costs incurred in connection with the programming or before we have fully amortized the costs. Because our programming and music businesses are dependent on popular acceptance, which we cannot predict at the time we incur related costs, our results of operations and cash flows have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, significantly from period to period. Operating results from our programming businesses fluctuate primarily with the acceptance of such programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. Our net music sales and profitability, like those of other companies in the music business, are largely affected by the number and quality of albums that we release, our release schedule, and, more importantly, the consumer demand for these releases. We also make advance payments to recording artists and songwriters, which impact our operating cash flows. The timing of album releases and advance payments is largely based on business and other considerations and is made without regard to the timing of the release of our financial results. We report results of operations quarterly and our results of operations and cash flows in any reporting period may be materially affected by the lack of popularity of programming and the timing of releases and advance payments, which may result in significant fluctuations from period to period. Because the U.S. Hispanic population is concentrated geographically, our results of operations are sensitive to the economic conditions in particular markets and negative events in those markets could reduce our revenues. Approximately 33% of all U.S. Hispanics live in the Los Angeles, New York and Miami-Fort Lauderdale markets and the top ten U.S. Hispanic markets collectively account for approximately 55% of the U.S. Hispanic population. Our revenues are, therefore, concentrated in these key markets. As a result, an economic downturn, increased competition, or another significant negative event in these markets could reduce our revenues and results of operations more dramatically than other companies that do not depend as much on these markets. Piracy of our programming and other content, including digital and Internet piracy, home copying and Internet downloading, may decrease sales. Piracy of programming, particularly industrial pirated music, is prevalent in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances allowing conversion of programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of our content. In addition, the decreasing cost of electronic and computer equipment and related technology such as CD burners and the conversion of music into digital formats have made it easier for consumers to create unauthorized copies of our music recordings in the form of, for example, CDs and MP3 files. A substantial portion of our music revenue comes from the sale of audio products that are potentially subject to unauthorized copying and widespread dissemination on the Internet without an economic return to us. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of these products has an adverse effect on our businesses and profitability because unauthorized copies and piracy contribute to the decrease in the volume of legitimate sales and put pressure on the price of legitimate products. They have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business. 16 Table of Contents The recorded music industry has been declining and may continue to decline, which may adversely affect our music segment prospects and our results of operations. Illegal downloading of music from the Internet, CD piracy, industrial piracy, economic recession, bankruptcies of record wholesalers and retailers and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending and retail shelf space are all contributing to a declining recorded music industry. Additionally, the period of growth in recorded music sales driven by the introduction and penetration of the CD format has ended, and consumers are purchasing music on a song-by-song basis rather than purchasing an entire album, thereby generating lower sales. The industry may continue to decline and we cannot predict the timing or the extent of any improvement in the industry. A declining recorded music industry is likely to lead to reduced levels of revenue and operating income generated by our recorded music business. Additionally, a declining recorded music industry is also likely to have a negative impact on our music publishing business, which generates a portion of its revenues from mechanical royalties, primarily from the sale of music in CD and other recorded music formats. If we do not successfully respond to rapid changes in technology, services and standards, we may not remain competitive. Technology in the video, telecommunications, radio, music and data services used in the entertainment and Internet industries is changing rapidly. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on our businesses. Examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, satellite radio, video games, MP3 players and other personal video and audio systems (e.g., iPods), wireless devices, text messaging and downloading from the Internet. For example, devices that allow users to view or listen to television or radio programs on a time-delayed basis and technologies which enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements, such as DVRs (e.g., TiVo) and portable digital devices, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers, and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues. In addition, further increases in the use of portable digital devices which allow users to view or listen to content of their own choosing, in their own time, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect our radio and television broadcasting advertising revenues. Other cable providers and direct-to-home satellite operators are developing new video compression techniques that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television marketplace into more specialized niche audiences. More television options increase competition for viewers and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and subscription revenues. Such a competitive environment may increase the demand for programming thereby making it more expensive to acquire new programming or renew current programming. The ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will affect our ability to continue to grow and increase our revenue. Changes in U.S. communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. The television, radio music and Internet industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television and radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. For example, we are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our radio and television stations with maximum terms of eight years. We cannot assure you that the FCC will approve our future renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation 17 Table of Contents of each of our business segments and ownership of our radio and television properties. For example, from time to time, proposals have been advanced in the U.S. Congress and at the FCC to shorten license terms to less than eight years, to mandate the origination of certain levels and types of local programming, or to require radio and television broadcast stations to provide advertising time to political candidates for free. In addition, some policymakers maintain that cable operators should be required to offer a la carte programming to subscribers on a network by network basis or “family friendly” programming tiers. Unbundling packages of program services may increase both competition for carriage on distribution platforms and marketing expenses, which could adversely affect our cable networks’ results of operations. Our failure to reach agreement with cable operators on acceptable “retransmission consent” terms, or new laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of “must-carry” or retransmission consent rights, could significantly reduce our ability to obtain cable carriage and therefore revenues. The Communications Act prohibits cable operators from retransmitting commercial television and low power television signals without first obtaining the broadcaster’s consent. This permission is commonly referred to as “retransmission consent” and may involve some compensation from the cable company to the broadcaster for the use of the signal. Alternatively, a local commercial television broadcast station may require a cable operator that serves the same market as the broadcaster to carry its signal. A demand for carriage is commonly referred to as “must-carry.” If the broadcast station asserts its must-carry rights, the broadcaster cannot demand compensation from the cable operator. We have elected retransmission consent with respect to some cable systems in markets where we own television stations, and must carry with respect to other cable systems. In cases where we have elected retransmission consent, we must reach agreement with local cable operators over the terms on which our stations will be carried, including compensation from the cable operator. These agreements are typically renegotiated every three to five years. We have not yet reached agreement with all cable systems with respect to which we have currently elected retransmission consent. By October 1, 2008, we must make a new election of either must-carry or retransmission consent for each system in markets in which we operate television stations for the three-year period commencing January 1, 2009. We cannot predict whether we will be able to reach agreement on acceptable terms with the operators of all cable systems with respect to which we elected retransmission consent. If we are unable to reach such agreement with a cable operator, we may choose to require that operator to cease carriage of our stations. If we are unable to execute retransmission consent agreements with respect to cable operators serving a material number of subscribers, it could reduce viewership and result in a diminution of revenues. To the extent that our full-power television stations rely on “must-carry” rights to obtain cable carriage on specific cable systems, new laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of these cable carriage rights could significantly reduce our ability to obtain cable carriage. We cannot assure that must carry rights will continue, especially as they relate to the carriage of digital television. New laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of these cable carriage rights could significantly reduce our ability to obtain cable carriage, which would reduce our ability to distribute our programming and consequently our ability to generate revenues from advertising. In addition, a number of entities have commenced operation, or announced plans to commence operation of Internet protocol video systems, or IPTV, using digital subscriber line, fiber optic to the home and other distribution technologies. The issue of whether those services are subject to the existing cable television regulations, including must carry or retransmission consent obligations, has not been resolved. If IPTV systems gain a significant share of the video distribution marketplace, and new laws and regulations fail to provide adequate must carry and/or retransmission consent rights, our ability to distribute our programming to the maximum number of potential viewers will be limited and consequently our revenue potential will be limited. 18 Table of Contents Vigorous enforcement or enhancement of FCC indecency and other program content rules against the broadcast and cable industries could have an adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations. FCC rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on television or radio broadcast stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. The FCC has stepped up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency, and has indicated that it would consider initiating license revocation proceedings for “serious” indecency violations. In the past two years, the FCC has found indecent content in a number of cases, and has issued fines to the offending licensees. The maximum permitted fines per station are $325,000 per incident and $3,000,000 for a continuing violation. Fines have been assessed on a station-by-station basis, so that the broadcast of network programming containing allegedly indecent or profane material has resulted in fines levied against each station affiliated with that network which aired the programming containing such material. Appeals challenging the FCC’s underlying indecency standards are pending in the federal courts, and the FCC has placed a hold on resolving indecency complaints pending resolution of those appeals. The determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content could violate indecency standards, particularly where programming is live and spontaneous. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions that may adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Goodwill and intangible assets totaled approximately $14.4 billion at December 31, 2007. After the Merger, our goodwill increased significantly. At least annually, we test our goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products or services sold by our businesses and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to operations. Depending on future circumstances, we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination of impairment of a significant portion of our goodwill and other intangibles would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our operations. As a result of the Merger, we have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we have outstanding total indebtedness of approximately $10 billion, including capital lease obligations and the aggregate of $2.3 billion of senior notes. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we have available $750 million (without giving effect to the existing letters of credit) of additional borrowing capacity under our senior revolving credit facility. Our substantial level of indebtedness and other financial obligations increase the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due, in respect of our indebtedness, including the senior notes. Our substantial debt could also have other significant consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, competitive and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes on satisfactory terms or at all; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for operations and any future business opportunities; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities (as defined below), will be at variable rates of interest; 19 Table of Contents • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limit our planning flexibility for, or ability to react to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who may have less indebtedness and other obligations or greater access to financing. If we fail to make any required payment under our bank senior secured revolving credit facility, bank senior secured term loan facility, bank second-lien asset sale bridge loan and bank senior secured draw term loan facility (collectively, the “Senior Secured Credit Facilities”) or to comply with any of the financial and operating covenants included in the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, we will be in default. Lenders under such facilities could then vote to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and foreclose upon our and our subsidiaries’ assets securing such indebtedness. Other creditors might then accelerate other indebtedness. If any of our creditors accelerate the maturity of their indebtedness, we may not have sufficient assets to satisfy our obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or our other indebtedness. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although one of the indentures governing the senior notes and our Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, we have up to $750 million (without giving effect to the existing letters of credit) of borrowings available under our senior secured revolving credit facility. In addition, we may, at our option, subject to certain conditions, increase the senior credit facilities in an amount not to exceed $750 million. Moreover, none of our indentures imposes any limitation on our incurrence of liabilities that are not considered “Indebtedness” under the indenture, nor do they impose any limitation on liabilities incurred by subsidiaries, if any, that might be designated as “unrestricted subsidiaries.” If we incur additional debt above current indebtedness levels, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to service our debt and financial obligations and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt, including the senior notes, amounts borrowed under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and other financial obligations, and to fund our operations will depend on our ability to generate substantial operating cash flow. Our cash flow generation will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the senior notes and borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. Any of these remedies may not, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, the indenture governing the senior notes and the credit agreement for our Senior Secured Credit Facilities may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. Because of these and other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to pay the principal, premium, if any, interest or other amounts on our indebtedness. 20 Table of Contents The consummation of our sale of our music recording and publishing businesses is subject to risks and uncertainties, including the satisfaction of specified closing conditions by both parties. On February 27, 2008, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our music recording and publishing businesses. The transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, including the receipt of certain regulatory approvals and the absence of a material adverse effect (as defined in the definitive agreement) on our music recording and publishing businesses since September 30, 2007. We expect the transaction to close in the second quarter of 2008. In the event that the sale of our music recording and publishing businesses is not consummated, our financial results and operations of those businesses may be adversely affected by the continuing diversion of management resources and uncertainty regarding the outcome of the process of selling the business. For example, if the sale is not consummated, the uncertainty of whether we will continue to own these businesses in the future could lead us to lose or fail to attract music artists, advertising revenue or business partners. Although we intend to take steps to address these risks, there can be no assurance that the sale will be consummated, or that any losses or distractions resulting from such failure to consummate the transaction, will not adversely affect the operations or financial results of these businesses. If we are unable to complete the sale of our music recording and publishing businesses and sell our other non-core assets, we may be unable to refinance our bank second-lien asset sale bridge loan. In addition to the proposed sale of our music recording and publishing businesses, we intend to sell certain non-core assets, including certain non-core television and radio stations, investments and excess real estate. We expect to close the music transaction in the second quarter of 2008. We intend to use approximately $113 million in gross proceeds from that sale together with the proceeds from the sale of the other non-core assets, and to the extent necessary, borrowings under our bank senior secured revolving credit facility (which cannot exceed $250.0 million), to pay down our $500.0 million bank second-lien asset sale bridge loan due March 29, 2009. The sale of our music recording and publishing businesses is subject to certain closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals and the absence of a material adverse effect (as defined in the definitive agreement) on our music recording and publishing businesses since September 30, 2007. We have not entered into any agreements to sell any of the other non-core assets. If the music sale is not consummated, the closing of the transaction is delayed and if we are unable to sell the other non-core businesses for as much as we estimated or at all, our ability to repay or refinance our bank second-lien asset sale bridge loan will be adversely affected. Restrictive covenants in the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indentures may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. These agreements governing our indebtedness include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preferred stock; • pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or subordinated and certain other debt; • make certain investments; • create liens on our or our subsidiary guarantors’ assets to secure debt; • create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our restricted subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the senior notes; • make capital expenditures; • enter into transactions with affiliates; 21 Table of Contents • merge or consolidate with another person or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • sell assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; • alter the business that we conduct; and • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. The Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the senior notes contain various covenants and restrictions and a breach of any covenant or restriction could result in a default under those agreements. If any such default occurs, the lenders of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or the holders of the senior notes may elect (after the expiration of any applicable notice or grace periods) to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, a default under the indentures governing the senior notes would cause a default under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, and the acceleration of debt under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or the failure to pay that debt when due would cause a default under the indentures governing the senior notes (assuming certain amounts of that debt were outstanding at that time). The lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities also have the right upon an event of default thereunder to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. Further, following an event of default under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, the lenders under these facilities will have the right to proceed against the collateral. Beginning June 30, 2008, we will be subject to certain customary financial covenants under our bank credit agreement, and there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance at such date. If we are unable to implement and upgrade effectively our accounting and operations support systems we will be unable to provide outstanding customer service, we may lose customers and our ability to monitor our businesses may be impaired. On July 1, 2007, we implemented the Oracle system throughout the entire company and also implemented a shared services organization to centralize certain accounting functions, streamline processes, improve consistency in internal controls and enhance analytical capabilities. The Company was required to modify its existing internal controls related to the accounting processes that were affected by the implementation of the Oracle system. Our accounting and operations support systems are crucial to our ability to manage our business, control and monitor costs, provide customer service, and achieve operating efficiencies. Our accounting records, sales and other core operating and financial data are generated by these systems and the accuracy of this data depends on the quality of manual and automated entry and system integration. Our business depends on the performance of our senior executives. Our business depends on the efforts, abilities and expertise of our senior executives. These individuals are important to our success because they have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel and identifying business opportunities. The loss of one or more of these key individuals could impair our business and development until qualified replacements are found. We cannot assure you that these individuals could quickly be replaced with persons of equal experience and capabilities. Although we have employment agreements with certain of these individuals, we could not prevent them from terminating their employment with us. We are controlled by the Sponsors, whose interests may not be aligned with ours or yours. We are controlled by the Sponsors, and therefore they have the power to control our affairs and policies, including entering into mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary transactions as well as decisions to issue shares, declare dividends, pay advisory fees and make other decisions, and they may have an interest in our doing so. The interests of the Sponsors could conflict with your interests in material 22 Table of Contents respects. Furthermore, the Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us, as well as businesses that represent major customers of our businesses. The Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the Sponsors continue to own a significant amount of our outstanding capital stock, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 