ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not based on historical fact are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management including, without limitation, our expectations regarding results of operations, selling and marketing expenses, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, the sufficiency of our cash for future operations, and the success of our cardiovascular business and clinical trials. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “could,” “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “continue,” or similar terms, variations of such terms or the negative of those terms. We cannot assure investors that our assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking statements. Such factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those factors discussed below. We undertake no intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. WE MAY FACE UNCERTAINTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE EXECUTION, COST AND ULTIMATE OUTCOME OF CLOSURE I. Upon receipt of final FDA approval, we commenced our CLOSURE I study in June 2003. On April 23, 2007, we announced that we received conditional approval from the FDA for our revised study hypothesis and statistical plan in the CLOSURE I PFO/stroke and TIA trial in the U.S. Based on an analysis, the conditional probability of a statistically significant benefit at the end of the data reviewed will require an enrollment of 900 patients. In October 2008, we announced that we completed patient enrollment in this clinical trial. We currently anticipate that when completed, study data from CLOSURE I will be used to support a PFO PMA application. We are now working with independent statistical experts and the FDA to determine the optimal timeframe in which to perform the analysis of patient follow up data. We currently estimate the total costs of CLOSURE I to be approximately $30 million through completion of the clinical trial and submission to the FDA. We have limited direct experience conducting a clinical 13 Table of Contents trial of this magnitude. We cannot be certain that the projected costs of CLOSURE I will not need to be adjusted upwards. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that we will obtain a PMA from the FDA based upon the final results of the trial. If CLOSURE I does not result in a PMA, we may face uncertainties and/or limitations as to the growth of revenues of our CardioSEAL® and STARFlex® products, which will negatively impact our profitability. WE MAY NEED TO RAISE DEBT OR EQUITY FUNDS IN THE FUTURE. Given the current tightening of financing markets and the general economic environment, we believe it prudent to evaluate financing alternatives that will provide increased liquidity to the company if needed. In the future we may require additional funds for our research and product development programs, regulatory processes, preclinical and clinical testing, sales, marketing and manufacturing infrastructure and programs and potential licenses and acquisitions. On October 19, 2006, we announced that we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC. The shelf registration statement will permit us to offer and sell up to $65 million of equity or debt securities. However, given the current market conditions, we may not be able to raise sufficient market capital using this registration statement or otherwise. Any additional equity financing or other transaction involving securities exercisable or convertible into our equitable securities may be dilutive to our stockholders, and additional debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the level of sales of our products, the progress of our research and development programs, the progress of clinical testing, the time and cost involved in obtaining regulatory approvals, the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, competing technological and market developments, developments and changes in our existing research, licensing and other relationships and the terms of any collaborative, licensing and other similar arrangements that we may establish. Based on current projections and plans, we believe there is sufficient cash to fund operations through at least 2009. We do not have any line of credit arrangements, and we may not be able to obtain any such credit facilities on acceptable terms, if at all, but we are in discussions with a financial institution regarding a possible credit facility. SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR REVENUES ARE DERIVED FROM SALES OF ONE PRODUCT LINE. We derive a substantial portion of our ongoing revenues from sales of our CardioSEAL®, STARFlex® and BioSTAR® products. As demand for, and costs associated with, these products fluctuates, including the potential impact of our revenue and non-revenue producing PFO IDE clinical trials on product sales, our financial results on a quarterly or annual basis may be significantly impacted. Accordingly, events or circumstances adversely affecting the sales of any of these products would directly and adversely impact our business. These events or circumstances may include reduced demand for our products, lack of regulatory approvals, product liability claims and/or increased competition. WE FACE UNCERTAINTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE AVAILABILITY OF THIRD-PARTY REIMBURSEMENT. In the United States, Medicare, Medicaid and other government insurance programs, as well as private insurance reimbursement programs, greatly affect revenues for suppliers of health care products and services. Such third-party payors may affect the pricing or relative attractiveness of our products by regulating the maximum amount, if any, of reimbursement which they provide to the physicians and hospitals using our devices, or any other products that we may develop. If, for any reason, the third-party payors decided not to provide reimbursement for our products, our ability to sell our products would be materially adversely affected. Moreover, mounting concerns about rising healthcare costs may cause the government or private insurers to implement more restrictive coverage and reimbursement policies in the future. In the international market, reimbursement by private third-party medical insurance providers and by governmental insurers and providers varies from country to country. In certain countries, our ability to achieve significant market penetration may depend upon the availability of third-party governmental reimbursement. WE MAY FACE UNCERTAINTIES WITH RESPECT TO COMMERCIALIZATION, PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS. We cannot be certain that our current products, or products currently under development, will achieve or maintain market acceptance. Certain of the medical indications that can be treated by our devices can also be treated by surgery, drugs or other medical devices. Currently, the medical community widely accepts many alternative treatments, and these other treatments have a long history of use. We cannot be certain that our devices and procedures will be able to replace such established treatments or that either physicians or the medical community, in general, will accept and utilize our devices or any other medical products that we may develop. In addition, our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new and improved implant technology products. Even if we determine that a product candidate has medical benefits, the cost of commercializing that product candidate may be too high to justify development. In addition, competitors may develop products that are more effective, cost less or are ready for commercial introduction before our products. If we are unable to develop additional, commercially viable products, our future prospects will be limited. 14 Table of Contents WE MAY BE UNABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY BECAUSE OF INTENSE COMPETITION AND RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE IN OUR INDUSTRY. The medical device industry is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and intense competition. Existing and future products, therapies, technological approaches and delivery systems will continue to compete directly with our products. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, greater research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources and experience and greater name recognition than we do. In addition, new surgical procedures and medications could be developed that replace or reduce the importance of current or future procedures that utilize our products. As a result, any products that we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses incurred in connection with development of these products. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY GROW OUR PRODUCT REVENUES OR EXPAND GEOGRAPHICALLY DUE TO LIMITED MARKETING AND SALES EXPERIENCE. Our structural heart repair implant devices are marketed primarily through our direct sales force. Our combined U.S. and European sales and marketing organization headcount is 17. Because we had previously marketed our initial products, such as stents and vena cava filters, through third parties, we have limited experience marketing our products directly. We are uncertain that we can further expand geographically in Europe, Latin America or other potential markets for our products. In order to market directly the CardioSEAL®, STARFlex® and BioSTAR® septal implants and any related products, we will have to continue to develop a marketing and sales organization with technical expertise and distribution capabilities. Expanding in these markets could also impose foreign currency risks on sales not denominated in US dollars, increase our costs to remain in compliance with foreign laws, and heighten risk of non-performance by the other parties to agreements to which the company is a party. REVENUE GENERATED BY CARS IDE MAY BE LIMITED. In August 2006, we announced FDA approval for a new PFO/stroke IDE, called CARS. The CARS IDE will supplement our ongoing CLOSURE I clinical trial to evaluate the connection between PFO and stroke. We will provide eligible patients of CARS with our newer STARFlex® implant technology. Patients previously covered by the HDE only had access to our original CardioSEAL® device. The CARS IDE will provide continued PFO closure access to certain patients who previously were eligible for treatment under the HDE. However, while patients in the CLOSURE I trial received the implant at no cost, those covered under the CARS IDE can be charged for the device. We anticipate a shift of some recurrent stroke patients with PFOs to the CARS IDE from the original HDE because patients will have access to the newer STARFlex® technology. At this time it is difficult to determine the impact on product revenue in the U.S. as a result of the transition from paid-for HDE devices to the paid-for devices under CARS. We believe the CARS IDE is a significant competitive achievement for us and is necessary to accommodate the growing demand for more advanced PFO/stroke treatments. OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS AND RELATED PRODUCT SALES MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY A REDUCTION OR INTERRUPTION IN SUPPLY AND AN INABILITY TO OR DELAYS IN DEVELOPING ALTERNATIVE SOURCES OF SUPPLY. We procure certain components from a sole supplier in connection with the manufacture of some of our products. While we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, we cannot guarantee that those efforts will continue to be successful. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of governmental regulatory bodies, both in the U.S. and abroad, regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to move quickly enough to establish alternative sources for these components. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, would adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely and cost effective manner and, accordingly, could potentially negatively impact our related product sales. CURRENT LEVELS OF MARKET VOLATILITY ARE UNPRECEDENTED. The capital markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices for certain issuers, including, but not limited to, the Company. We believe the price of our common stock has been and may continue to be negatively effected in a manner unrelated to our business. The markets have also exerted downward pressure on the value of the marketable securities carried on our balance sheet, including corporate debentures and corporate bonds, resulting in further downward pressure on our stock price. AS A RESULT OF GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS, WE MAY EXPERIENCE LOWER SALES AND EARNINGS. The manufacture and sale of medical devices intended for commercial distribution are subject to extensive governmental regulations in the United States and abroad. Medical devices generally require pre-market clearance or pre-market approval prior to 15 Table of Contents commercial distribution. Certain material changes or modifications to medical devices are also subject to regulatory review and clearance or approval. The regulatory approval process is expensive, uncertain and lengthy. If granted, the approval may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. In addition, any products that we manufacture or distribute are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for our products on a timely basis or at all. The occurrence of any of the following events could materially affect our business: • delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, regulatory approvals or clearances; • the loss of previous approvals or clearances, including our voluntary withdrawal of our PFO HDE; • the ability to enroll patients and charge for implants in the CARS IDE; • limitations on the intended use of a device imposed as a condition of regulatory approvals or clearances; and • our failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements. In addition, sales of medical device products outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. Failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements also could materially affect our business. WE MAY FACE CHALLENGES IN EXECUTING OUR FOCUSED BUSINESS STRATEGY. As a result of the 2001 sale of our vena cava filter product line and the 2002 sale of our neurosciences business unit, we have focused our business growth strategy to concentrate on the developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling of our cardiac septal repair implant devices used for structural heart repair. Our future sales growth and financial results depend almost exclusively upon the growth of sales of this product line. CardioSEAL®, STARFlex® and BioSTAR® product sales may not grow as quickly as we expect for various reasons, including, but not limited to, delays in receiving further FDA approvals for additional indications and product enhancements, difficulties in recruiting additional experienced sales and marketing personnel and increased competition. This focus has placed significant demands on our senior management team and other resources. Our future success will depend on our ability to manage and implement our focused business strategy effectively, including: • achieving successful stroke-related clinical trials; • developing next generation product lines; • improving our sales and marketing capabilities; • improving our ability to successfully manage inventory as we expand production; • continuing to train, motivate and manage our employees; and • developing and improving our operational, financial and other internal systems. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS AND MAY FACE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENT CLAIMS. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot be certain that: • any of our pending patent applications or any future patent applications will result in issued patents; • the scope of our patent protection will exclude competitors or provide competitive advantages to us; • any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged; or • others will not claim rights in or ownership of the patents and other proprietary rights held by us. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that others have not or will not develop similar products, duplicate any of our products or design around any patents issued, or that may be issued, in the future to us or to our licensors. Whether or not patents are issued to us or to our licensors, others may hold or receive patents which contain claims having a scope that covers products developed by us. We could incur substantial costs in defending any patent infringement suits or in asserting any patent rights, including those granted by third parties. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights from third parties. There can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our issued U.S. patents expire at various dates ranging from 2009 to 2026. When each of our patents expires, competitors may develop and sell products based on the same or similar technologies as those covered by the expired patent. We have invested in significant new patent applications, and we cannot be certain that any of these applications will result in an issued patent to enhance our intellectual property rights. 16 Table of Contents WE RELY ON A SMALL GROUP OF SENIOR EXECUTIVES, AND INTENSE INDUSTRY COMPETITION FOR QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES COULD AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN NECESSARY, QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. We rely on a small group of senior executives and in the medical device field, there is intense competition for qualified personnel, such that we cannot be assured that we will be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Both the loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, would be detrimental to our anticipated growth and expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise. The failure to attract and retain such personnel could adversely affect our business. WE ARE EXPOSED TO UNCERTAIN ROYALTY EXPENSE IN EXCESS OF ROYALTY REVENUE. The royalty rate we receive from Bard decreased substantially from the royalty rate we earned prior to 2008, while the royalty rate we pay to the estate of the original inventor of these products will remain the same. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of the actual royalty expense we will incur in 2009. OUR LIMITED MANUFACTURING HISTORY AND THE POSSIBILITY OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH MANUFACTURING REGULATIONS RAISE UNCERTAINTIES WITH RESPECT TO OUR ABILITY TO COMMERCIALIZE FUTURE PRODUCTS. We have a limited history in manufacturing our products, including our CardioSEAL®, STARFlex® and BioSTAR® structural heart repair implants, and we may face difficulties as the commercialization of our products and the medical device industry changes. Increases in our manufacturing costs, or significant delays in our manufacturing process, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The FDA and other regulatory authorities require that our products be manufactured according to rigorous standards including, but not limited to, Good Manufacturing Practices and International Standards Organization, or ISO, standards. These regulatory requirements may significantly increase our production or purchasing costs and may even prevent us from making or obtaining our products in amounts sufficient to meet market demand. If we or a third-party manufacturer change our approved manufacturing process, the FDA will require a new approval before that process could be used. Failure to develop our manufacturing capabilities may mean that, even if we develop promising new products, we may not be able to produce them profitably, as a result of delays and additional capital investment costs. PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS, PRODUCT RECALLS AND UNINSURED OR UNDERINSURED LIABILITIES COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. The testing, marketing and sale of implantable devices and materials carry an inherent risk that users will assert product liability claims against us or our third-party distributors. In these claims, users might allege that their use of our devices had adverse effects on their health. A product liability claim or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain of our devices are designed to be used in life-threatening situations where there is a high risk of serious injury or death. Although we currently maintain limited product liability insurance coverage, we cannot be certain that in the future we will be able to maintain such coverage on acceptable terms, or that current insurance or insurance subsequently obtained will provide adequate coverage against any or all potential claims. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that we will avoid significant product liability claims and the attendant adverse publicity. Any product liability claim, or other claim, with respect to uninsured or underinsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. OUR EXPANDING NON-US OPERATIONS EXPOSE US TO RISK INHERENT IN FOREIGN OPERATIONS. As we increase our presence in Europe, Canada and Latin America following the receipt of a CE Mark (Europe) and medical device license approval (Canada) for our BioSTAR® technology, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our revenue and expenses could have an adverse impact on our profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 