Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this report, before investing in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. A downturn in the economy could adversely affect consumer purchases of discretionary items, which could reduce our net sales. In general, our sales represent discretionary spending by our customers. A slowdown in the U.S. economy or other economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income, such as volatile fuel and energy costs, depressed real estate values, employment levels, inflation, deflation, business conditions, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, interest rates and tax rates may adversely affect our business. A reduction in customer traffic to our stores or a shift in customer spending to products other than those sold by us or to products sold by us that are less profitable could result in lower net sales, decreases in inventory turnover or a reduction in profitability due to lower margins. A slower pace of new store openings may negatively impact our net sales growth and operating income and we may be unable to achieve our expansion plans for future growth. The opening of new retail stores has contributed significantly to our growth in net sales. In light of the challenging economic environment that has faced real estate developers over the past several years, our new store openings have slowed compared to our historical rate. We expect that the pressure on the commercial real estate market will continue throughout Fiscal 2014, although we will be able to increase our overall square footage in Fiscal 2014. We have grown rapidly, primarily through opening new stores, from 67 stores at the beginning of Fiscal 1997 to 873 stores at February 2, 2013. Our continued growth depends, in large part, upon our ability to open new stores in a timely manner, to operate them profitably and to manage them effectively. Additionally, successful expansion is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. In order to open and operate new stores successfully, we must secure leases on suitable sites with acceptable terms, build-out and equip the stores with furnishings and appropriate merchandise, hire and train personnel and integrate the stores into our operations. We cannot give any assurances that we will be able to continue our expansion plans successfully; that we will be able to achieve results similar to those achieved with prior locations; or that we will be able to continue to manage our growth effectively. Our failure to achieve our expansion plans could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our operating margins may be impacted in periods in which incremental expenses are incurred as a result of new store openings. 11 Failure to adequately plan and manage the transition to our new corporate headquarters and wholesaling and logistics facility may interrupt our operations and lower our operating income. The lease on our corporate headquarters and distribution facility expires in December 2014. Currently, our distribution center is centrally managed from our corporate headquarters, which is located in the same building. In July 2012, we purchased land in Alabaster, Alabama and have begun construction on a new wholesaling and logistics facility to replace our current distribution facility. In addition, we purchased an existing building that will serve as our new corporate headquarters and will be separately located from the new wholesaling and logistics facility. The planned separation of our headquarters and distribution function entails risks that could cause disruptions in the operation of our business, delays and cost overruns. Such risks include potential interruption in data flow, shortages of materials; shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages; unforeseen construction, scheduling, engineering, environmental or geological problems; weather interferences or other casualty losses; and unanticipated cost increases. There is also the risk that we will not adequately adjust our business processes or appropriately manage our work force during the transition and decentralization of our headquarters and distribution. Failure to adequately plan and manage the relocation efforts or delays and cost overruns in or outside our control, could cause a disruption in our operations and lower our operating income. We rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. Problems with our information systems could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. The operation of our business is dependent on the successful integration and operation of our information systems. We rely on our information systems to effectively manage our sales, distribution, merchandise planning and replenishment, to process financial information and sales transactions and to optimize our overall inventory levels. We attempt to mitigate the risk of possible business interruptions through change control protocols and a disaster recovery plan, which includes storing critical business information off-site. Most of our information system infrastructure is centrally located at our headquarters, but we rely on third-party service providers for certain system applications that are hosted remotely. A service provider disruption or failure could have an adverse effect on our business. Our estimates concerning long-lived assets and store closures may accelerate. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to operate stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on capital invested. This is particularly challenging with the uncertainty of the current economic environment and customer behavior. We will only continue to operate existing stores if they meet required sales and profit levels. In the current macroeconomic environment, the results of our existing stores are impacted not only by a volatile sales environment, but by a number of things that are outside our control, such as the loss of traffic resulting from store closures by other nearby retailers. The uncertainty of the economy, coupled with the volatility in the capital markets, affects our business and, ultimately, our revenue and profitability. To the extent our estimates for net sales, gross profit and store expenses are not realized, future assessments of recoverability could result in impairment charges. In addition, if we were to close stores, we could be subject to costs and charges that may adversely affect our financial results. Our stores are concentrated within the South, Southwest, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the United States, which could subject us to regional risks. Our stores are heavily concentrated in certain regions of the United States. We are subject to regional risks, such as the regional economy, weather conditions and natural disasters, increasing costs of electricity, oil and natural gas, as well as government regulations specific in the states and localities within which we operate. We sell a significant amount of team sports merchandise that can be adversely affected by significant weather events that postpone the start of or shorten sports seasons or that limit participation of fans and sports enthusiasts. 12 The occurrence of severe weather events, catastrophic health events or natural disasters could significantly damage or destroy our retail locations, could prohibit consumers from traveling to our retail locations or could prevent us from resupplying our stores or distribution center, especially during peak shopping seasons. Unforeseen events, including public health issues and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados, snow or ice storms, floods and heavy rains, could disrupt our operations or the operations of our suppliers, as well as the behavior of our consumer. We believe that we take reasonable precautions to prepare for such events; however, our precautions may not be adequate to deal with such events in the future. If such events occur in areas in which we have our distribution center or a concentration of retail stores, or if they occur during peak shopping seasons, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Poor performance of college and professional sports teams within our core regions of operation, as well as professional team lockouts, could adversely affect our financial results. We sell a significant amount of licensed team sports merchandise, the sale of which may be subject to fluctuations based on the success or failure of such teams. The poor performance by the college and professional sports teams within our core regions of operations, as well as professional team lockouts, could cause our financial results to fluctuate year over year. Our inability to identify, and anticipate changes in consumer demands and preferences and our inability to respond to such consumer demands in a timely manner could reduce our net sales. Our products appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. Our success depends on our ability to identify product trends as well as to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to offer assortments of products that appeal to our customers or that we will satisfy changing consumer demands in the future. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if: · we are unable to identify and respond to emerging trends, including shifts in the popularity of certain products; · we miscalculate either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers' purchasing habits; or · consumer demand unexpectedly shifts away from athletic footwear or our more profitable apparel lines. In addition, we may be faced with significant excess inventory of some products and missed opportunities for other products, which could decrease our profitability. If we lose any of our key vendors or any of our key vendors fail to supply us with merchandise, we may not be able to meet the demand of our customers and our net sales could decline. We are a reseller of manufacturers' branded items and are thereby dependent on the availability of key products and brands. Our business is dependent to a significant degree upon close relationships with vendors and our ability to purchase brand name merchandise at competitive prices. As a reseller, we cannot control the supply, design, function or cost of many of the products we offer for sale. In addition, many of our vendors provide us with return privileges, volume purchasing allowances and cooperative advertising. We believe that we have a long-standing and strong relationships with our vendors and that we have adequate sources of brand name merchandise on competitive terms. However, the loss or decline of key vendor support could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire such merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. In this regard, certain merchandise that is in high demand may be allocated by vendors based upon the vendors' internal criteria, which is beyond our control. We also rely on services and products from non-merchandise vendors. A disruption in these services or products due to the financial condition or inefficient operations of these vendors could adversely affect our business operations. 13 Our success depends substantially on the value and perception of the brand name merchandise we sell. Our success is largely dependent on our consumers' perception and connection to the brand names we carry, such as Nike, Under Armour, Reebok, adidas, Easton, The North Face, etc. Brand value is based in part on our consumer's perception on a variety of subjective qualities so that even an isolated incident could erode brand value and consumer trust, particularly if there is considerable publicity or litigation. Consumer demand for our products or brands could diminish significantly in the event of erosion of consumer confidence or trust, resulting in lower sales which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A disruption in the flow of imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those goods may significantly decrease our net sales and operating income. We believe many of our largest vendors source a substantial majority of their products from foreign countries. Imported goods are generally less expensive than domestic goods and contribute significantly to our favorable profit margins. We may experience a disruption or increase in the cost of imported vendor products at any time for reasons beyond our control. If imported merchandise becomes more expensive or unavailable, the transition to alternative sources by our vendors may not occur in time to meet our demands or the demands of our customers. Products from alternative sources may also be more expensive than those our vendors currently import. Risks associated with reliance on imported goods include: · disruptions in the flow of imported goods because of factors such as: · raw material shortages, work stoppages, labor availability and political unrest; · problems with oceanic shipping, including blockages or labor union strikes at U.S. or foreign ports; and · economic crises and international disputes. · increases in the cost of purchasing or shipping foreign merchandise resulting from: · foreign government regulations; · rising commodity prices; · changes in currency exchange rates or policies and local economic conditions; and · trade restrictions, including import duties, import quotas or loss of "most favored nation" status with the United States. In addition, to the extent that any foreign manufacturer from whom our vendors are associated may directly or indirectly utilize labor practices that are not commonly accepted in the United States, we could be affected by any resulting negative publicity. Security threats, including physical and cyber security threats, and unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information could harm our business and reputation with our consumers. The protection of Company, customer and employee data is critical to us. We rely on third-party systems, software and monitoring tools to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer and employee information such as payment card and personal information. Although we have security measures designed to protect against the misappropriation or corruption of our information systems, our systems may still be vulnerable to computer viruses, thefts, cyber attacks, acts of vandalism, programming and/or human errors, disruptions caused by unauthorized tampering or outages caused by natural disasters or other similar events. Cyber security threats are persistent and evolving. They include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, intentional or unintentional, whether by us or our providers, could damage our reputation, expose us to risk of litigation and liability and harm our business. 14 Pressure from our competitors may force us to reduce our prices or increase our spending, which would lower our net sales, gross profit and operating income. The business in which we are engaged is highly competitive. The marketplace for sporting goods is highly fragmented as many different retailers compete for market share by utilizing a variety of store formats and merchandising strategies. We compete with local sporting goods stores, department and discount stores, traditional shoe stores and mass merchandisers and, on a limited basis, national sporting goods stores. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors employ price discounting policies that, if intensified, may make it difficult for us to reach our sales goals without reducing our prices. As a result of this competition, we may also need to spend more on advertising and promotion than we anticipate. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Expansion into markets served by our competitors, entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could be detrimental to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations. Furthermore, our quarterly operating results, including comparable store net sales, will fluctuate and may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance. We have historically experienced and expect to continue to experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales, operating income and net income. Our net sales, operating income and net income are typically higher in the spring, back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons. An economic downturn during these periods could adversely affect us to a greater extent than if a downturn occurred at other times of the year. Customer buying patterns around the spring sales period and the holiday season historically result in higher first and fourth quarter net sales. In the past few years, we have also experienced higher than historical third quarter net sales resulting from the back-to-school period complimented by sales tax holidays in many of our markets. In addition, our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many outside our control, including the timing of new store openings, the amount and timing of net sales contributed by new stores, merchandise mix, demand for apparel and accessories driven by local interest in sporting events, the disgrace of sports superstars key to certain product promotions or strikes or lockouts involving professional sports teams. Any of these events, particularly in the fourth quarter, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results for the entire fiscal year. Comparable store net sales vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in comparable store net sales may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Factors which could affect our comparable store net sales results include: · shifts in consumer tastes and fashion trends; · calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; · the timing of income tax refunds to customers; · increases in personal income taxes paid by our customers; · calendar shifts or cancellations of sales tax-free holidays in certain states; · the success or failure of college and professional sports teams within our core regions; · changes in the other tenants in the shopping centers in which we are located; · pricing, promotions or other actions taken by us or our existing or possible new competitors; and · unseasonable weather conditions or natural disasters. We cannot assure you that comparable store net sales will trend at the rates achieved in prior periods or that rates will not decline. We would be materially and adversely affected if our single distribution center were shut down. We currently operate a single centralized distribution center in Birmingham, Alabama. We receive and ship substantially all of our merchandise at our distribution center. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to this facility would damage a portion of our inventory and could impair our ability to adequately stock our stores and process returns of products to vendors and could adversely affect our net sales and profitability. In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace the center. 15 We depend on key personnel, the loss of which may adversely affect our ability to run our business effectively and our results of operations. We benefit from the leadership and performance of our senior management team and other key employees. If we lose the services of any of our principal executive officers or other skilled and experienced personnel, we may not be able to fully implement our business strategy or run our business effectively and operating results could suffer. Our Executive Chairman, Michael J. Newsome, has been instrumental in directing our business strategy. We have a Retention Agreement with Mr. Newsome which secures his continued employment as an advisor following his eventual retirement. The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors reviews a succession plan prepared by senior management in consideration of the loss of other key personnel positions on a bi-annual basis. The goal of the succession plan is to have a contingency plan that minimizes disruptions in the workplace until a suitable replacement can be found, but no assurance can be given that we will be able to retain existing or attract additional qualified personnel when needed. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might deter acquisition bids for us. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects and may discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider in its best interest. These provisions, among other things: · classify our Board of Directors into three classes, each of which serves for different three-year periods; · provide that a director may be removed by stockholders only for cause by a vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of our shares entitled to vote; · provide that all vacancies on our Board of Directors, including any vacancies resulting from an increase in the number of directors, may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, even if the number is less than a quorum; · provide that special meetings of the common stockholders may only be called by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or upon the demand of the holders of a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote at any such special meeting; and · call for a vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote in order to amend the foregoing provisions and certain other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. In addition, our Board of Directors, without further action of the stockholders, is permitted to issue and fix the terms of preferred stock, which may have rights senior to those of common stock. We are also subject to the Delaware business combination statute, which may render a change in control of us more difficult. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Laws would be expected to have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the Board of Directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares of common stock held by stockholders. Increases in transportation costs due to rising fuel costs, climate change regulation and other factors may negatively impact our results of operations. We rely upon various means of transportation, including ship and truck, to deliver products from vendors to our distribution center and from our distribution center to our stores. Consequently, our results can vary depending upon the price of fuel. The price of oil has fluctuated drastically over the last few years. In addition, efforts to combat climate change through reduction of greenhouse gases may result in higher fuel costs through taxation or other means. Any such future increases in fuel costs would increase our transportation costs for delivery of product to our distribution center and distribution to our stores, as well as our vendors' transportation costs. 16 In addition, labor shortages in the transportation industry could negatively affect transportation costs and our ability to supply our stores in a timely manner. We also rely on efficient and effective operations within our distribution center to ensure accurate product delivery to our stores. Failure to maintain such operations could adversely affect net sales. We manage cash and cash equivalents beyond federally insured limits per financial institution and purchase investments not fully guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), subjecting us to investment and credit availability risks. We manage cash and cash equivalents in various institutions at levels beyond federally insured limits per institution, and we purchase investments not guaranteed by the FDIC. Accordingly, there is a risk that we will not recover the full principal of our investments or that their liquidity may be diminished. In an attempt to mitigate this risk, our investment policy emphasizes preservation of principal and liquidity. We cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on our deposits. We face risk that financial institutions may fail to fulfill commitments under our committed credit facilities. We have financial institutions that are committed to providing loans under our revolving credit facilities. There is a risk that these institutions cannot deliver against these obligations in a timely matter, or at all. If the financial institutions that provide these credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. For discussion of our credit facilities, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 and Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock, like the stock market in general, is likely to be highly volatile. Factors that could cause fluctuation in our common stock price may include, among other things: · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by investment analysts and our inability to meet or exceed those estimates; · additions or departures of key personnel; · market rumors or announcements by us or by our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures, strategic partnerships, large capital commitments or other strategic initiatives; and · sales of our common stock by key personnel or large institutional holders. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our operating performance. Risks Related to Regulatory, Legislative and Legal Matters. We operate in a number of jurisdictions. It can be cumbersome to fill needed positions and comply with labor laws and regulations, many of which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We are heavily dependent upon our labor force. Our compensation packages are designed to provide benefits commensurate with our level of expected service. However, within our retail and our distribution operations, we face the challenge of filling many positions at wage scales that are appropriate to the industry and competitive factors. We operate in a number of jurisdictions which can make it cumbersome to comply with labor laws and regulations, many of which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. As a result of these and other factors, we face many external risks and internal factors in meeting our labor needs, including competition for qualified personnel, overall unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, as well as rising employee benefit costs. Changes in any of these factors, including a shortage of available workforce in areas in which we operate, could interfere with our ability to adequately service our customers or to open suitable locations and could result in increasing labor costs. 17 We cannot be assured that we will not experience pressure from labor unions or become the target of labor union campaigns. While we believe we maintain good relations with our employees, we cannot be assured that we will not experience pressure from labor unions or become the target of labor union campaigns. The potential for unionization could increase in the United States if Congress passes federal legislation that would facilitate labor organization. Significant union representation would require us to negotiate wages, salaries, benefits and other terms with many of our employees collectively and could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our labor costs or otherwise restricting our ability to maximize the efficiency of our operations. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or our failure to comply with such laws, could increase our expenses and expose us to legal risks. Our Company is subject to numerous laws and regulatory matters relating to the conduct of our business. In addition, certain jurisdictions have taken a particularly aggressive stance with respect to certain matters and have stepped up enforcement, including fines and other sanctions. Such laws and regulatory matters include: · The Americans with Disabilities Act and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas; · The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act provisions; · Labor and employment laws that govern employment matters such as minimum wages, overtime, family leave mandates and workplace safety regulations; · Securities and exchange laws and regulations; · New or changing laws relating to state and local taxation and licensing, including sales and use tax laws, withholding taxes and property taxes; · New or changing laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments and consumer credit, protection and fraud; · New or changing environmental regulations, including measures related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions; · New or changing laws and regulations concerning product safety or truth in advertising; and · New or changing federal and state immigration laws and regulations. Increasing regulations could expose us to a challenging enforcement environment or to third-party liability (such as monetary recoveries and recoveries of attorney's fees) and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our corporate legal department monitors regulatory activity and is active in notifying and updating applicable departments and personnel on pertinent matters and legislation. Our Human Resources (HR) Department leads HR compliance training programs to ensure our field managers are kept abreast of HR-related regulatory activity that affects their areas of responsibility. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environment and other laws and regulations, and although no assurance can be given, we do not foresee the need for any significant expenditure in this area in the near future. Changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, changes in tax laws in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate or adverse outcomes from audits by taxing authorities could result in an unfavorable change in our effective tax rate. We operate our business in numerous tax jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of the federal rate and applicable tax rates in the various states in which we operate. Our effective tax rate may be lower or higher than our tax rates have been in the past due to numerous factors, including the sources of our income and the tax filing positions we take. We base our estimate of an effective tax rate at any given point in time upon a calculated mix of the tax rates applicable to our Company and on estimates of the amount of business likely to be done in any given jurisdiction. Changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, changes in tax laws in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate or adverse outcomes from tax audits that we may be subject to in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our effective tax rate. 18 Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, suppliers, competitors, stockholders, government agencies or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. We may incur losses relating to these claims, and in addition, these proceedings could cause us to incur costs and may require us to devote resources to defend against these claims that could adversely affect our results of operations. For a description of current legal proceedings, see "Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings." Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 