Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in the Company involves risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the Company. This information should be considered together with the other information contained in this report and in the other reports and materials filed by us with the SEC, as well as news releases and other information publicly disseminated by us from time to time. Our business may be adversely affected by adverse economic conditions and other negative developments in the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry. Substantially all of our gross premiums written are generated from sales of non-standard personal automobile insurance policies. As a result of our concentration in this line of business, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry and our customers could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Weak economic conditions and continued elevated unemployment levels and low consumer confidence in the United States have resulted, and could continue to result, in fewer customers purchasing and maintaining non-standard personal automobile insurance policies and certain customers reducing their insurance coverage, which adversely impacts our revenues and profitability. Developments affecting the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry and our customers could have a greater effect on us compared with more diversified insurers that also sell other types of automobile insurance products or write other additional lines of insurance. Our results may fluctuate as a result of cyclical changes in the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry. The non-standard personal automobile insurance industry is cyclical in nature. Likewise, adverse economic conditions impact our customers and many will choose to reduce their coverage or go uninsured during a weak economy. Employment rates, sales of used vehicles, consumer confidence and other factors affect our customers’ purchasing habits. In the past, the industry has also been characterized by periods of price competition and excess capacity followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity. If new competitors enter the market, existing competitors may attempt to increase market share by lowering rates. Such conditions could lead to reduced prices, which would negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Given the cyclical nature of the industry and the economy, these conditions may negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Due to our largely fixed cost structure, our profitability may decline if our sales volume declines significantly. Our reliance on leased retail locations staffed by employee-agents results in a cost structure that has a high proportion of fixed costs as compared with other more traditional insurers. In times of increasing sales volume, our acquisition cost per policy decreases, improving our expense ratio, which we believe is one of the significant advantages of our business model. However, in times of declining sales volume, the opposite occurs. Decreases in our sales volume, without corresponding decreases in our costs, would adversely impact our results of operations and profitability. Our loss and loss adjustment expenses may exceed our reserves, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We establish reserves for the estimated amount of claims under the terms of the insurance policies underwritten by our insurance company subsidiaries. The amount of the reserves is determined based on historical claims information, industry statistics and other factors. The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process due to a number of factors, including the difficulty in predicting the frequency and severity of claims, the rate of inflation, changes in trends, ongoing interpretation of insurance policy provisions by courts, inconsistent decisions in lawsuits regarding coverage and broader theories of liability. Any changes in claims settlement practices can also lead to changes in loss payment patterns, which are used to estimate reserve levels. Our ability to accurately estimate our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves may be made more difficult by changes in our business, including entry into new markets, changes in sales practices, or changes in our customers’ purchasing habits. If our reserves prove to be inadequate, we will be required to increase our loss reserves and the amount of any such increase would reduce our income in the period that the deficiency is recognized. The historic development of reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses may not necessarily reflect future trends in the development of these amounts. Consequently, our actual losses could materially exceed our loss reserves, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K Extra-contractual losses arising from bad faith claims could materially reduce our profitability. In Florida and other states where we have substantial operations, the judicial climate, case law or statutory framework are often viewed as unfavorable toward an insurer in litigation brought against it by policyholders and third-party claimants. This tends to increase our exposure to extra-contractual losses, or monetary damages beyond policy limits, in what are known as “bad faith” claims, for which reinsurance may be unavailable. Such claims may result in losses which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of this report and Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for further information concerning any recent matters. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or other-than-temporary impairment losses, which could reduce our profitability. Our results of operations depend, in part, on the performance of our investment portfolio. At December 31, 2012, substantially all of our investment portfolio was primarily invested either directly or indirectly in marketable, investment-grade debt securities, and included U.S. government securities, municipal bonds, corporate bonds and collateralized mortgage obligations. Recent declines in interest rates have reduced the available returns on the reinvestment of securities in the portfolio as they mature or are redeemed. However, as rates decline, the fair value of debt securities increases. Unrealized gains and losses on debt securities are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) and increase or decrease our stockholders’ equity. At December 31, 2012, the fair value of our investment portfolio exceeded the amortized cost by $8.7 million. An increase in interest rates could reduce the fair value of our investments in debt securities. At December 31, 2012, the impact of an immediate 100 basis point increase in market interest rates on our fixed maturities and cash equivalents portfolio would have resulted in an estimated decrease in fair value of 4.0%, or approximately $5.3 million. Defaults by third parties who fail to pay or perform obligations could reduce our investment income and could also result in investment losses to our portfolio. See “Critical Accounting Estimates – Investments” in Item 7 of this report and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements regarding determination of other-than-temporary impairment losses on investment securities. Our business may be adversely affected by negative developments in the states in which we operate. We currently operate in 12 states located primarily in the Southeastern and Midwestern United States. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 68% of our premiums earned were generated from insurance policies written in five states. Our revenues and profitability are affected by prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory, competitive and other conditions in the states in which we operate. Changes in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for us to conduct business. Adverse regulatory developments, which could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, restrictions on rate increases, fundamental changes to the design or implementation of the automobile insurance regulatory framework, or economic conditions that result in fewer customers purchasing or maintaining insurance (or purchasing or maintaining reduced coverages), could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. These developments could have a greater effect on us, as compared with more diversified insurers that also sell other types of automobile insurance products, write other additional lines of insurance coverages or whose premiums are not concentrated in a single line of insurance. Our business is highly competitive, which may make it difficult for us to market our core products effectively and profitably. The non-standard personal automobile insurance business is highly competitive. We believe that our primary insurance company competition comes not only from national insurance companies or their subsidiaries, but also from non-standard insurers and independent agents that operate in a specific region or single state in which we also operate. We believe that our significant competitors are the Affirmative, Berkshire Hathaway (which includes GEICO), Bristol West, Direct General, Infinity, Permanent General, Progressive and Safe Auto insurance groups. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, and they may offer a broader range of products or competing products at lower prices, and may offer products through multiple distribution channels. Our revenues, profitability and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are required to decrease or are unable to increase prices to stay competitive, or if we do not successfully retain our current customers and attract new customers. 13 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K In addition, innovation by competitors or other market participants may increase the level of competition in the industry. This can include product, pricing, or marketing innovations, new or improved services, technology advances, or new modes of doing business that enhance the customer’s ability to shop and compare prices from multiple companies, among other initiatives. Our ability to react to such advances and navigate the new competitive environment is important to our success. Our ability to attract, develop, and retain talented employees, managers, and executives, and to maintain appropriate staffing levels, is critical to our success. Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop, and retain talented employees, including executives, other key managers and employee-agents. Our loss of certain key employees, or the failure to attract and develop talented new executives and managers, could have a materially adverse effect on our business. In addition, we must forecast volume and other factors in changing business environments with reasonable accuracy and adjust our hiring and training programs and employment levels accordingly. Our failure to recognize the need for such adjustments, or our failure or inability to react appropriately on a timely basis, could lead either to over-staffing (which would adversely affect our cost structure) or under-staffing (impairing our ability to service our business) in one or more locations. In either such event, our financial results, customer relationships, and brand could be materially adversely affected. Pricing, claim and coverage issues and class action litigation are continually emerging in the automobile insurance industry, and these issues could adversely impact our revenues, profitability, or our methods of doing business. As automobile insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions change, litigation and unexpected and unintended issues related to claims, coverages and business practices may emerge. These issues can have an adverse effect on our business by subjecting us to liability, changing the way we price and market our products, extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, requiring us to obtain additional licenses or increasing the size of claims. Examples of some issues include: • concerns over the use of an applicant’s credit score or zip code as a factor in making risk selections and pricing decisions; • plaintiffs targeting automobile insurers in purported class action litigation relating to sales and marketing practices and claims-handling practices, such as total loss evaluation methodology, the use of aftermarket (non-original equipment manufacturer) parts and the alleged diminution in value to insureds’ vehicles involved in accidents; and • consumer groups lobbying state legislatures to regulate and require separate licenses for individuals and companies engaged in the sale of ancillary products or services. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging issues could subject us to liability or negatively affect our revenues, profitability, or our methods of doing business. Our business may be adversely affected if we do not underwrite risks accurately and charge adequate rates to policyholders. Our financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations depend on our ability to underwrite and set rates accurately for a full spectrum of risks. The role of the pricing function is to ensure that rates are adequate to generate sufficient premium to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses, and underwriting expenses, and to earn a profit. Pricing involves the acquisition and analysis of historical accident and loss data, and the projection of future accident trends, loss costs and expenses, and inflation trends, among other factors, for each of our products and in many different markets. As a result, our ability to price accurately is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: • the availability of sufficient reliable data; • uncertainties inherent in estimates and assumptions, generally; • our ability to conduct a complete and accurate analysis of available data; • our ability to timely recognize changes in trends and to predict both the severity and frequency of future losses with reasonable accuracy; 14 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K • our ability to predict changes in certain operating expenses with reasonable accuracy; • the development, selection, and application of appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies; • our ability to innovate with new pricing strategies, and the success of those innovations; • our ability to implement rate changes and obtain any required regulatory approvals on a timely basis; • our ability to predict policyholder retention accurately; • unanticipated court decisions, legislation, or regulatory action; • the occurrence and severity of catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, hail storms, other severe weather, and terrorist events; • our understanding of the impact of ongoing changes in our claim settlement practices; and • changing driving patterns. The realization of one or more of such risks may result in our pricing being based on inadequate or inaccurate data or inappropriate analyses, assumptions, or methodologies, and may cause us to estimate incorrectly future changes in the frequency or severity of claims. As a result, we could underprice risks, which would negatively affect our underwriting profit margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our volume and competitiveness. In either event, our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, underpricing insurance policies over time could erode the surplus of one or more of our insurance subsidiaries, constraining our ability to write new business. In December 2011, we completed the process of implementing new scored pricing programs. We believe these new scored pricing programs provide us with greater pricing segmentation and improve our pricing relative to the risk we are insuring. Approximately 74% of our current PIF have been underwritten using these new scored pricing programs. As noted above, the success of our new scored pricing program will depend on our ability to properly design and accurately set rates in each of the states in which we currently operate. Our results are dependent on our ability to adjust claims accurately. We must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made under our insurance policies. Many factors can affect our ability to pay claims accurately, including the training, experience, and skill of our claims representatives, the extent of and our ability to recognize fraudulent or inflated claims, the effectiveness of our management, and our ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures, technologies, and systems to support our claims functions. Our failure to pay claims fairly, accurately, and in a timely manner, or to deploy claims resources appropriately, could result in unanticipated costs to us, lead to material litigation, undermine customer goodwill and our reputation in the marketplace, and impair our brand image and, as a result, materially adversely affect our competitiveness, financial results, prospects, and liquidity. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on paying dividends to our holding company. Our holding company may rely, in part, on receiving dividends from the insurance company subsidiaries to pay its obligations. State insurance laws limit the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends and require our insurance company subsidiaries to maintain specified minimum levels of statutory capital and surplus. These restrictions affect the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company and may require our subsidiaries to obtain the prior approval of regulatory authorities, which could slow the timing of such payments or reduce the amount that can be paid. The limits on the amount of dividends that can be paid by our insurance company subsidiaries may affect the ability of our holding company to pay its obligations. The dividend-paying ability of the insurance company subsidiaries is discussed in Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce tax payments may be limited by applicable law. Based on our calculations and in accordance with the rules stated in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), we do not believe that any “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Code, has occurred with respect to our historical or current period net operating losses (“NOLs”) and accordingly we believe that there are no annual limitations under Section 382 of the Code on our ability to use NOLs to reduce our taxable income. However, if such a change did occur, there would be no impact on the consolidated financial statements due to the current full valuation allowance on deferred tax assets. Additionally, we do not believe that the April 2004 acquisition of USAuto Holdings, Inc. (“USAuto”) was for the principal purpose of avoiding federal income taxes (i.e. avoidance through the use of NOLs) as defined in Section 269 of the Code. We did not obtain, and do not plan to obtain, an Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) ruling or opinion of counsel regarding these conclusions. All NOLs that were subject to these code sections as a result of the acquisition of USAuto have now expired. However, related NOLs of $14.7 million were utilized in years still subject to examination by federal tax authorities. 15 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K Regardless of whether an ownership change occurs, the carryforward period for NOLs is 20 years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the NOLs were incurred. The most recent losses that gave rise to our current NOLs were incurred in 2012 and will expire in 2032. If the carryforward period for any NOL were to expire before that NOL had been fully utilized, the use of the unutilized portion of that NOL would be permanently prohibited. Our use of new NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected by the Section 382 limitation, unless there was an additional ownership change after those new NOLs arose. It is impossible for us to state that an ownership change will not occur in the future. Limitations imposed by Code Section 382 may limit our ability to issue additional stock to raise capital or acquire businesses. We may decide in the future that it is necessary or in our interest to take certain actions that could result in an ownership change. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to statutory capital and surplus requirements and other standards, and their failure to meet these requirements or standards could subject them to regulatory actions. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to RBC standards and other minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements imposed under the laws of their respective states of domicile. The RBC standards, which are based upon the RBC Model Act adopted by the NAIC, require our insurance company subsidiaries to annually report their results of RBC calculations to the state departments of insurance and the NAIC. Failure to meet applicable RBC requirements or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements could subject our insurance company subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on their writing of additional business, state supervision or even liquidation. Any changes in existing RBC standards or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements may require our insurance company subsidiaries to increase their statutory capital and surplus levels, which they may be unable to do. This calculation is performed on a calendar year basis, and at December 31, 2012, our insurance company subsidiaries maintained RBC levels in excess of an amount that would require any corrective actions on their part. State regulators also screen and analyze the financial condition of insurance companies using the NAIC IRIS system. As part of IRIS, the NAIC database generates key financial ratio results obtained from an insurer’s annual statutory statements. A ratio result falling outside the defined range of IRIS ratios may result in further examination by a state regulator to determine if corrective action is necessary. At December 31, 2012, each of our three insurance company subsidiaries had IRIS ratios outside the defined ranges. We cannot assure you that regulatory authorities will not conduct any such examination of the financial condition of our insurance company subsidiaries, or of the outcome of any such investigation. See “Business – Regulatory Environment” in Item 1 of this report. We rely on our information technology and communication systems, and the failure of these systems could materially adversely affect our business. Our business is highly dependent on the proprietary integrated technology systems that enable timely and efficient communication and data sharing among the various segments of our integrated operations. These systems are used in all our operations, including quotation, policy issuance, customer service, underwriting, claims, accounting, and communications. We have a technical staff that develops, maintains and supports all elements of our technology infrastructure. However, disruption of power systems or communication systems or any failure of our systems could result in deterioration in our ability to respond to customers’ requests, write and service new business, and process claims in a timely manner. We believe we have appropriate types and levels of insurance to protect our real property, systems, and other assets. However, insurance does not provide full reimbursement for all losses, both direct and indirect, that may result from an event affecting our information technology and communication systems. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophes may result in an increase in the number and amount of claims filed against us. Our business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including natural events, such as severe winter weather, hurricanes, tornados, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, thunderstorms and fires, and other events, such as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and severe weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. Severe weather conditions generally result in more automobile accidents and damage, leading to an increase in the number of claims filed and/or the amount of compensation sought by claimants. 16 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K A single stockholder has significant control over us, and his interests may differ from yours. A single stockholder, Gerald J. Ford, our former Chairman of the Board and father of our current Chairman, controls approximately 58% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Ford has the power to control the election and removal of our directors. Mr. Ford would also have significant control over other matters requiring stockholder approval, including the approval of major corporate transactions and proposed amendments to our certificate of incorporation. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, as well as frustrate attempts to replace or remove current management, even when a change may be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Furthermore, the interests of Mr. Ford may not always coincide with the interests of the Company or other stockholders. We may have difficulties in managing any expansion through new markets, products or distribution methods. Our future growth plans may include expanding into new states or introducing additional insurance products or distribution methods. In order to grow our business successfully, we must apply for and maintain necessary licenses, properly design and price our products and identify, hire and train new employees. Our expansion would also place significant demands on our existing management, operations, systems, accounting, internal controls and financial resources. Any failure by us to manage growth and to respond to changes in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision that may restrict our ability to earn profits. We and our subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by the insurance departments in the states where our subsidiaries are domiciled and where our subsidiaries sell insurance and ancillary products, issue policies and handle claims. Certain regulatory restrictions and prior approval requirements may affect our subsidiaries’ ability to operate, change their operations or obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner or may increase our costs and reduce profitability. Among other things, regulation and supervision of us and our subsidiaries extends to: Required Licensing. We and our subsidiaries operate under licenses issued by various state insurance authorities. These licenses govern, among other things, the types of insurance coverages, agency and claims services and motor club products that we and our subsidiaries may offer consumers in the particular state. If a regulatory authority denies or delays granting any such license, our ability to enter new markets or offer new products could be substantially impaired. Transactions Between Insurance Companies and Their Affiliates. Our insurance company subsidiaries are organized and domiciled under the insurance statutes of Texas, Georgia and Tennessee. The insurance laws in these states provide that all transactions among members of an insurance holding company system must be done at arm’s length and shown to be fair and reasonable to the regulated insurer. Transactions between our insurance company subsidiaries and other subsidiaries generally must be disclosed to the state regulators, and prior approval of the applicable regulator generally is required before any material or extraordinary transaction may be consummated. State regulators may refuse to approve or delay approval of such a transaction, which may impact our ability to innovate or operate efficiently. Regulation of Rates and Policy Forms. The insurance laws of most states in which our insurance company subsidiaries operate require insurance companies to file premium rate schedules and policy forms for review and approval. State insurance regulators have broad discretion in judging whether our rates are adequate, not excessive and not unfairly discriminatory. The speed at which we can change our rates in response to market conditions or increasing costs depends, in part, on the method by which the applicable state’s rating laws are administered. Generally, state insurance regulators have the authority to disapprove our requested rates. If as permitted in some states, we begin using new rates before they are approved, we may be required to issue premium refunds or credits to our policyholders if the new rates are ultimately disapproved by the applicable state regulator. In some states, there has been pressure in past years to reduce premium rates for automobile and other personal insurance or to limit how often an insurer may request increases for such rates. In states where such pressure is applied, our ability to respond to market developments or increased costs in that state may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K Investment Restrictions. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of their investment portfolios and that limit the amount of investments in certain categories. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause non-conforming investments to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and, in some instances, would require divestiture. If a non-conforming asset is treated as a non-admitted asset, it would lower the affected subsidiary’s surplus and thus, its ability to write additional premiums and pay dividends. Restrictions on Cancellation, Non-Renewal or Withdrawal. Many states have laws and regulations that limit an insurer’s ability to exit a market. For example, certain states limit an automobile insurer’s ability to cancel or not renew policies. Some states prohibit an insurer from withdrawing from one or more lines of business in the state, except pursuant to a plan approved by the state insurance department. The state insurance department may disapprove a plan that may lead to market disruption. These laws and regulations that limit cancellations and non-renewals and that subject business withdrawals to prior approval restrictions could limit our ability to exit unprofitable markets or discontinue unprofitable products in the future. Our success depends partly on our ability to efficiently manage complexity in our business operations. The fast pace of change and innovation in our business, combined with ongoing technological, regulatory, and other developments, results in significant levels of complexity in our products and in the systems and processes we use to run our business. The complexity may create a barrier to implementing certain new ideas, and may lead to the increased possibility of error in executing our business strategies, as well as difficult management decisions regarding the allocation of available resources (such as information technology resources) for multiple potential initiatives or projects. Our inability to manage this complexity effectively, to bring new ideas to market, to allocate and prioritize appropriately our resources, or to prevent errors could result in substantially increased costs, liability to third parties, regulatory investigations and sanctions, poor customer experiences, and damage to our brand. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may prevent a takeover or a change in management that you may deem favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions that could prevent or inhibit a third party from acquiring us: • the requirement that only stockholders owning at least one-third of the outstanding shares of our common stock may call a special stockholders’ meeting; and • the requirement that stockholders owning at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our common stock must approve any amendment to our certificate of incorporation provisions concerning the ability to call special stockholders’ meetings. Under our certificate of incorporation, we may issue shares of preferred stock on terms that are unfavorable to the holders of our common stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock could also prevent or inhibit a third party from acquiring us. The existence of these provisions could depress the price of our common stock, could delay or prevent a takeover attempt or could prevent attempts to replace or remove incumbent management. We may write-off intangible assets. As a result of purchase accounting for our business combination transactions, our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2012 contained intangible assets designated as other identifiable intangible assets totaling $4.8 million. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of value of intangible assets. As circumstances change, we cannot assure you that the value of these intangible assets will be realized by us. If we determine that a material impairment has occurred, we will be required to write-off the impaired portion of intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. 18 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 