Item 1A. Risk Factors. ------------ The following is a summary of the material risks related to an investment in the Company's securities. The Bank's loan portfolio includes a substantial amount of commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans. The credit risk related to these types of loans is greater than the risk related to residential loans. The Bank's commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loan portfolios totaled $1.73 billion at December 31, 2005, comprising 85.4% of total loans. Commercial and industrial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of risk of nonpayment or late payment than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans. Any significant failure to pay or late payments by the Bank's customers would hurt the Bank's earnings. The increased credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. A significant portion of the Bank's commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loan portfolios includes a balloon payment feature. A number of factors may affect a borrower's ability to make or refinance a balloon payment, including the financial condition of the borrower, the prevailing local economic conditions and the prevailing interest rate environment. Furthermore, the repayment of these loans is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flow from the project is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, the Bank may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may to a greater extent than residential loans be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. 13 The concentration of the Bank's commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans in specific business sectors and geographic areas exposes it to the risk of a possible economic downturn affecting those sectors and areas. A significant portion of Bank's commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans are concentrated in the hospitality, entertainment and leisure industries. Many of these industries are dependent upon seasonal business and other factors beyond the control of the industries, such as weather and beach conditions along the New Jersey seashore. Any significant or prolonged adverse weather or beach conditions along the New Jersey seashore could have an adverse impact on the borrowers' ability to repay loans. In addition, because these loans are concentrated in southern and central New Jersey, a decline in the general economic conditions of southern or central New Jersey could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the Bank has failed to provide an adequate allowance for loan losses, there could be a significant negative impact on its earnings. The risk of loan losses varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value of the collateral for the loan. Based upon factors such as historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and a regular review of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality, the Bank's management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses. At December 31, 2005, the Bank's allowance for loan losses was $22.5 million which represented 1.10% of total loans and 221.9% of nonperforming loans. If management's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future credit losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Bank to increase its allowance for loan losses, its earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. The Company may not be able to achieve its growth plans or effectively manage its growth. The Company's ability to successfully grow depends on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable acquisition and business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in its market areas and its ability to integrate acquisitions and otherwise manage its growth. There can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or that growth will be successfully managed. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect the Company's earnings. The market areas in which the Company operates are among the most highly competitive in the country. There is substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting and retaining deposits and competition is increasing in intensity. The competition comes principally from other banks, larger and smaller, savings institutions, credit unions, mortgage banking companies and the myriad of nonbanking competitors, such as full service brokerage firms, money market mutual funds, insurance companies and other institutional lenders. Ultimately, competition may adversely affect the rates the Company pays on deposits and charges on loans, thereby potentially adversely affecting the Company's profitability. 14 Changes in interest rates may reduce the Company's profits. The most significant component of the Company's net income is net interest, which accounted for 84.2% of total revenue in 2005 and 82.4% in 2004. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income generated on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments and the interest expense paid on the funds required to support earning assets, namely deposits and borrowed funds. Interest income, which represents income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the level of interest rates, the interest rate sensitivity of the earning assets and the levels of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds is a function of the amount and type of funds required to support the earning assets, the rates paid to attract and retain deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of non-interest bearing demand deposits. Interest rate sensitivity is a measure of how our assets and liabilities react to changes in market interest rates. The Company expects that this interest sensitivity will not always be perfectly balanced. This means that either the Company's interest-earning assets will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than its interest bearing liabilities, or vice versa. If more interest-earning assets than interest -bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are declining, then the Company's net interest income may be reduced. If more interest-bearing liabilities than interest - earning assets reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are rising, then the Company's net income may be reduced. At December 31, 2005, total interest earning assets maturing or repricing within one year exceeded interest-bearing liabilities maturing or repricing during the same period by $226.9 million. As a result, the yield on its interest-earning assets should adjust to changes in interest rates at a faster rate than the cost of its interest-bearing liabilities and its net interest income may be reduced when interest rates decrease significantly for long periods of time. The Company manages its interest rate risk from changes in market rates by controlling to the extent possible, the mix of interest sensitive assets and interest rate sensitive liabilities. Commencing in mid 2004 and throughout 2005 the Federal Reserve Board increased short-term interest rates 13 times. In general, when short-term rates increase, the Company expects improvements to net interest income. However, the continuing flattening of the yield curve over this period and into 2006 continues to put significant pressure on the Company's ability to maintain or increase net interest income as the increasing funding costs of either deposits or borrowings results in further interest spread compression. If the goodwill that the Company has recorded in connection with its acquisitions becomes impaired, there could be a negative impact on the Company's profitability. Under the purchase method of accounting for all business combinations, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company's net assets, the excess is carried on the acquiror's balance sheet as goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. At December 31, 2005, the Company had $134.8 of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets on its balance sheet. With the acquisition of Advantage Bank on January 19, 2006, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets increased by approximately $24 million. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment are to be charged to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment is determined. Based on tests of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets impairment, the Company has concluded that there has been no impairment during 2005 and 2004, and no write-downs have been recorded. There can be no assurance that the future evaluations of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets will not result in determinations of impairment and write-downs. 15 Government regulation significantly affects the Company's business and operations. The Company and the banking industry are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which the Company conducts its business. Overall, these various statutes establish the corporate governance and permissible business activities for Sun, acquisition and merger restrictions, limitations on inter-company transactions, capital adequacy requirements, and requirements for anti-money laundering programs and other compliance matters. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds, consumers and not to the benefit of the Company's shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may continue to be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, which is not in the control of the Company. Significant new laws, or changes to existing laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. Overall compliance with all the required statutes increases Sun's operating expenses, requires a significant amount of management's attention and could be a competitive disadvantage with respect to non-regulated competitors The amount of common stock held by the Company's executive officers and directors gives them significant influence over the election of the Company's board of directors and other matters that require shareholder approval. As of March 14, 2006, a total of 5.6 million shares, or approximately 29.5% of the Company's outstanding common stock, are beneficially owned by its directors and executive officers, not including exercisable options. Therefore, if they vote together, the Company's directors and executive officers have the ability to exert significant influence over the election of the board of directors and other corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including a tender offer, business combination or other transaction, or, the adoption of proposals made by shareholders. As a result, shareholders who might desire to participate in a takeover transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. The effect of these provisions could be to limit the trading price potential of the Company's common shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. ------------------------- None. 