Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, as well as other disclosures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, and growth prospects. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not known to us now or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. We assume no obligation (and specifically disclaim any such obligation) to update these Risk Factors or any other forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Current economic conditions and market disruptions may adversely affect our business and results of operations. As widely reported, financial markets throughout the world experienced extreme disruption in 2008 and 2009, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, failure and potential failures of major financial institutions and unprecedented government support of financial institutions. The financial, casino and gaming industries have been more severely impacted by the current economic downturn than other industries and this 4 Table of Contents may lead our customers in these industries to reduce, or discontinue, spending on our products which could adversely impact our business. A recurrence of these developments or a continuation of the general economic downturn may adversely impact our business and financial condition in a number of additional ways, including impacts beyond those typically associated with other recent downturns in the U.S. and foreign economies. The slowdown could lead to reduced capital spending by end users, which could adversely affect our product sales. A tightening of credit in financial markets and the general economic downturn may adversely affect the ability of our customers, suppliers, outsource manufacturer and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations an d to perform their obligations with the Company. The tightening could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services, could negatively impact our ability to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, could result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable being required, and in the event of the contraction in our sales, could lead to excess inventory and require additional reserves for obsolescence. Significant volatility and fluctuations in the rates of exchange for the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies could negatively impact our customer pricing and adversely affect our results. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of the current economic downturn and disruption in financial markets or their effects on our business and results of operations, but the consequences may be materially adverse and more severe than other recent economic slowdowns. Our success will depend on our ability to sustain and manage growth. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue an aggressive growth strategy. Assuming this growth occurs, it will require the expansion of distribution relationships in international markets, the successful development and marketing of new products, expanded customer service and support, and the continued implementation and improvement of our operational, financial and management information systems. To the extent that we seek growth through acquisitions, our ability to manage our growth will also depend on our ability to integrate businesses that have previously operated independently. We may not be able to achieve this integration without encountering difficulties or experiencing the loss of key employees, customers or suppliers. It may be difficult to design and implement effective financial controls for combined operations and differences in existing controls for each business may result in weaknesses that require remediation when the financial controls and reporting functions are combined. As we pursue acquisitions, we may incur legal, accounting and other transaction related expenses for unsuccessful acquisition attempts that could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in wh ich they are incurred. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our growth strategy, or that we can successfully manage expanded operations. As the Company expands, we may from time to time experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to satisfy customer demand in a timely fashion. Failure to manage growth effectively could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In the lottery market, we have been dependent on sales to one large customer; the loss of this customer or reduction in orders from this customer could materially affect our sales. We expect that sales to one large customer will continue to represent a significant percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. A reduction, delay or cancellation in orders from this customer, including reductions or delays due to market, economic, or competitive conditions in the industries in which we serve, could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. We rely on resellers to sell our products and services. We use a variety of distribution channels, including OEMs and distributors, to market our products. We may be adversely impacted by any conflicts that could arise between and among our various sales channels. Our dependence upon resellers exposes us to numerous risks, including: · loss of channel and the ability to bring new products to market; · concentration of credit risk, including disruption in distribution should the resellers’ financial condition deteriorate; · reduced visibility to end user demand and pricing issues which makes forecasting more difficult; · resellers leveraging their buying power to change the terms of pricing, payment and product delivery schedules; and · direct competition should a reseller decide to manufacture printers internally or source printers from a competitor. We cannot guarantee that resellers will not reduce, delay or eliminate purchases from us, which could have a material adverse effect upon the business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year and are likely to continue to vary due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section: 5 Table of Contents · market acceptance of our products, both domestically and internationally; · development of new competitive printers by others; · our responses to price competition; · our level of research and development activities; · changes in the amount that we spend to develop, acquire or license new products, consumables, technologies or businesses; · changes in the amount we spend to promote our products and services; · changes in the cost of satisfying our warranty obligations and servicing our installed base of printers; · delays between our expenditures to develop and market new or enhanced printers and consumables and the generation of sales from those products; · the geographic distribution of our sales; · availability of third-party components at reasonable prices; · general economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates affecting returns on cash balances and investments, that affect customer demand; · severe weather events (such as hurricanes) that can disrupt or interrupt the operation of our customers or suppliers facilities; and · changes in accounting rules. Due to all of the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be an indicator of future performance. We depend on key personnel, the loss of which could materially impact our business. Our future success will depend in significant part upon the continued service of certain key management and other personnel and our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, technical and sales and marketing personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recruit and retain such personnel. The loss of either Bart C. Shuldman, the Company's Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, or Steven A. DeMartino, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary, or the loss of certain groups of key employees, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to variations in quarterly operating results and other factors, such as: · changes in our business, operations or prospects; · developments in our relationships with our customers; · announcements of new products or services by us or by our competitors; · announcement or completion of acquisitions by us or by our competitors; · changes in existing or adoption of additional government regulations; · unfavorable or reduced analyst coverage; and · prevailing domestic and international market and economic conditions. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price fluctuations in recent years. Broad market fluctuations, general economic conditions and specific conditions in the industries in which we operate may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Limited trading volume of our capital stock may contribute to its price volatility. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, the average daily trading volume for our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Market was approximately 28,000 shares. We are uncertain whether a more active trading market in our common stock will develop. In addition, many investment banks no longer find it profitable to provide securities research on micro-cap and small-cap companies. If any analyst were to discontinue coverage of our common stock, our trading volume may be further reduced. As a result, relatively small trades may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, which could increase the volatility and depress the price of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock in public or private offerings, and we may also issue additional shares of our common stock to finance future acquisitions. Shares of our common stock are also available for future sale pursuant to stock options that we have granted to our employees, and in the future we may grant additional stock options and other forms of equity compensation to our employees. Sales of our common stock or the perception that such sales could occur may adversely affect prevailing market prices for shares of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings. If we are unable to enforce our patents or if it is determined that we infringe patents held by others it could damage our business. Prosecuting and defending patent lawsuits is very expensive. We are committed to aggressively asserting and defending our technology and 6 Table of Contents related intellectual property, which we have spent a significant amount of money to develop. These factors could cause us to become involved in new patent litigation in the future. The expense of prosecuting or defending these future lawsuits could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were to lose a patent lawsuit in which another party is asserting that our products infringe its patents, we would likely be prohibited from marketing those products and could also be liable for significant damages. Either or both of these results may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose a patent lawsuit in which we are claiming that another party’s products are infringing our patents and thus, are unable to enforce our patents, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of other parties' rights, we may become involved in disputes relating to our assertion of our own intellectual property rights. Whether we are defe nding the assertion of intellectual property rights against us or asserting our intellectual property rights against others, intellectual property litigation can be complex, costly, protracted, and highly disruptive to business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek injunctive relief, and the measures of damages in intellectual property litigation are complex and often subjective or uncertain. Thus, any adverse determinations in this type of litigation could subject us to significant liabilities and costs. During the course of these lawsuits there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could harm the market price of our stock. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm our reputation, and our competitive position may be materially damaged. Our intellectual property is valuable and provides us with certain competitive advantages. Copyrights, patents, trade secrets and contracts are used to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for third parties to copy aspects of our products or, without authorization, to obtain and use information which we regard as trade secrets. Infringement on the proprietary rights of others could put us at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Third parties may claim that we violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third party’s patent or other intellectual property right, we may be prevented from operating our business as planned and may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish our objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If such claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. We compete in highly competitive markets, which are likely to become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. We face significant competition in developing and selling our printers, transaction supplies and services. Principal competitors have substantial marketing, financial, development and personnel resources. To remain competitive, we believe we must continue to provide: · Technologically advanced printers that satisfy the user demands, · Superior customer service, · High levels of quality and reliability, and · Dependable and efficient distribution networks. We cannot ensure we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Increased competition in printers or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products. Any of these factors could reduce our earnings. We have outsourced a large portion of the assembly of our printers to a contract manufacturer and will be dependent on them for the manufacturing of such printers. A failure by this contract manufacturer, or any disruption in such manufacturing, may adversely affect our business results. In an effort to achieve additional cost savings and operation benefits, we have continued to outsource the manufacturing and assembly of our printers to a contract manufacturer in China. However, to the extent we rely on a third party service provider for manufacturing services, we may incur increased business continuity risks. We will no longer be able to exercise control over the assembly of certain of our printers or any related operations or processes, including the internal controls associated with operations and processes conducted and the quality of our products assembled by the contract manufacturer. If we are unable to effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, we may not realize cost structure efficiencies and our operating and financial results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if the contract manufacturer experiences business difficulties or fails to meet our manufacturing needs, then we may be unable to meet production requirements, may lose revenue and may not be able to maintain relationships with our customers. Without the contract 7 Table of Contents manufacturer continuing to manufacture our products and the continuing operation of the contract manufacturer’s facility, we will have limited means for the final assembly of a majority of our printers until we are able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility, which could be costly and time consuming and have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. The increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in foreign jurisdictions may lead to an increase in reputational risk. Although we carry business interruption insurance to cover lost revenue and profits in an amount we consider adequate, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, the business interruption insurance would not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact, both short-term and long-term, on relations with our existing customers resulting from our inability to produce products for them. The contract manufacturer has access to our intellectual property, which increases the risk of infringement or misappropriation of this intellectual property. We source some of our component parts and consumable products from sole source suppliers; any disruptions may impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products. A disruption in the supply of such component parts and consumable products could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. We sell a significant portion of our products internationally and purchase important components from foreign suppliers. These circumstances create a number of risks. We sell a significant amount of our products to customers outside the United States. Shipments to international customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of net sales. Risks associated with sales and purchases outside the United States include: · Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, or increase costs of purchasing, in foreign countries. · Foreign governments may impose burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions. · Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products or put our foreign assets at risk. · Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from certain markets. · Potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain countries, such as China, may limit recourse against infringing products or cause us to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories. If market conditions deteriorate or future results of operations are less than expected, a valuation allowance may be required for all or a portion of our deferred tax assets. We currently have significant deferred tax assets, which may be used to reduce taxable income in the future. We assess the realization of these deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis, and if we determine that it is more likely than not that some portion of these assets will not be realized, an income tax valuation allowance is recorded. If market conditions deteriorate or future results of operations are less than expected, or there is a change to applicable tax rules, future assessments may result in a determination that it is more likely than not that some or all of our net deferred tax assets are not realizable. As a result, we may need to establish a valuation allowance for all or a portion of our net deferred tax assets, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditi on. We cannot provide any assurance that current laws, or any laws enacted in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are subject to laws, rules, regulations, including environmental regulations, government policies and other requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Changes in laws, rules, regulations, policies or requirements could result in the need to modify our products and could affect the demand for our products, which may have an adverse impact on our future operating results. If we do not comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations we could be subject to costs and liabilities and our business may be adversely impacted. Our business could be adversely affected by actual or threatened terrorist attacks or the related heightened security measures, military actions and other efforts to combat terrorism. Our business could be adversely affected by actual or threatened terrorist attacks or the related heightened security measures, military actions and other efforts to combat terrorism. It is possible that terrorist attacks could be directed at important locations for the gaming industry. Heightened security measures and other efforts to combat terrorism may also have an adverse effect on the gaming industry by reducing tourism. Any of these developments could also negatively affect the general economy and consumer confidence. Any downturn in the economy or in the gaming industry in particular could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, heightened security measures may cause certain governments to restrict the import/export of g oods, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to buy/sell goods. 8 Table of Contents Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact our business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 