Item 1A. Risk Factors CERTAIN RISKS TO OUR BUSINESS Before deciding to invest in Hot Topic, Inc. or to maintain or increase an investment in Hot Topic, Inc., readers should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed, and our stock price could decline. Our success relies on popularity of music, pop culture and fashion trends, and our ability to react to them Our financial performance is largely dependent upon the continued popularity of apparel, accessories and other merchandise inspired by music, film, television, pop culture, and fashion trends, particularly among teenagers and college-age adults. The popularity of such products is influenced by the Internet; music videos and music television networks; the emergence of new artists; the success of music releases, movies and television shows; and music/pop culture-related products. The popularity of particular types of music, movies, television shows, artists, actors, styles, trends and brands is constantly changing. Our failure to anticipate, identify and react appropriately to changing trends and preferences of our customers could lead to, among other things, excess inventories and higher markdowns. There can be no assurance that the products we sell will be accepted by our customers. We depend on a small number of key licensed products for a portion of our earnings and lower than expected sales of those products or the inability to obtain new licensed products could adversely affect our revenues We license from others the rights to produce and/or sell certain products that contain a third party’s trademarks, designs and other intellectual property. If the popularity of those licensed products diminishes or if we are unable to obtain new licensed products with comparable consumer demand, our sales could decline. Furthermore, we may not be able to prevent a licensor from choosing not to renew a license with us and/or from licensing a product to one of our competitors. Our cost reduction plan and strategic business changes may not achieve their anticipated benefits and could adversely affect our operations and revenues and our ability to respond to future growth opportunities We recently completed the implementation of all planned initiatives related to the strategic business changes announced in fiscal 2011 to improve our overall operations and reduce costs. The strategic business changes involved closing underperforming stores, discontinuing our ShockHound operations, writing down inventory and writing down property and equipment that are no longer critical to the strategic direction of the company. A number of factors could result in our not realizing the anticipated benefits from the initiatives. Even if we are successful in implementing these initiatives, the loss of personnel and reduction in the number of stores we operate, among other things, may result in decreased operational efficiencies, unanticipated operational challenges and decreased revenues, or leave us unprepared to take advantage of growth opportunities in the future. 7 Our access to merchandise could be hurt by changes in vendors’ business condition Our financial performance depends on our ability to obtain our merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We depend on independent contractors and vendors to manufacture much of our merchandise. Substantially all of our music/pop culture-licensed products are available from vendors that have exclusive license rights. In addition, we rely on small, specialized vendors who generally have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories. Lack of access to capital, as a result of the current economic conditions or otherwise, and changes in vendors’ compliance and certification procedures may cause our vendors to delay, reduce or eliminate shipment of products we otherwise would sell in our stores. We generally do not have long-term purchase contracts or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms in the future. Remodeling, relocating, closing and opening stores may not achieve the anticipated benefits and could create challenges we may not be able to adequately meet We depend on our ability to manage our existing store base, ensure that the performance of our remodeled and relocated stores is at acceptable levels, open new stores, and close underperforming stores. In order to open, remodel and relocate stores, among other things, we need to locate suitable store sites, negotiate acceptable lease terms, obtain or maintain adequate capital resources on acceptable terms, source sufficient levels of inventory, hire and train store managers and sales associates, integrate new or relocated stores into our existing operations and maintain adequate distribution center space and information technology systems. Moving or expanding store locations and operating stores in new markets, especially markets outside the continental United States, may present competitive, merchandising and regulatory challenges we do not have experience in or know how to face. There can be no assurance that moving or expanding store locations and operating stores in new markets will not adversely affect the individual financial performance of our existing stores or our overall results of operations. In the event that the number of our stores increases, we may face risks associated with market saturation of our products and concepts. Similarly, there can be no assurance that remodeling or relocating existing stores will not adversely affect either the individual financial performance of the store prior to the change or our overall results of operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will successfully achieve our remodel or expansion targets or, if achieved, that planned remodel or expansion will result in profitable operations. Our business strategy requires innovating and improving our operations, and we may not be able to do this sufficiently to effectively prevent a negative impact on our business and financial results To be successful we must innovate our products, our stores, and the shopping experience for our customers. Such innovation involves risks, including that we will not properly anticipate the need for or rate of change, that we are not able to successfully bring about such change, that we will not be able to produce anticipated results, and that our customers will not be receptive to the change. Such innovation also involves significant capital expenditures and other costs that we may not be able to recover if the innovation is not favorably received by our customers. Failure of our vendors to use acceptable ethical business practices could negatively impact our business We require and expect our vendors and manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, the environment and intellectual property. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. Further, we do not inspect our manufacturers’ operations and would not be immediately aware of any noncompliance by our vendors with applicable domestic or international laws and standards, including our internal standards. If one of our vendors or manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of merchandise to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. Technology and other risks associated with our Internet sales could hinder our overall financial performance We sell merchandise over the Internet through websites we control and affiliated websites controlled by others. Our Internet sales generate a significant portion of our total sales and are dependent on our ability to drive Internet traffic to our websites. Our Internet operations are subject to numerous risks and pose risks to our overall business, including the inability to successfully establish partnerships that are instrumental in driving traffic to our websites; diversion of sales from our stores; liability for online content; computer and consumer privacy concerns; rapid technological changes; the need to invest in additional computer hardware and software to support sales; hiring, retention and training of personnel; failure of computer hardware and software, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures, online security breaches and similar disruptions; governmental regulations; and credit card fraud. There can be no assurance that our Internet operations will achieve sales and profitability levels that justify our investment in them. 8 We materially rely on ecommerce, information and other technology systems, including such technology provided by third parties We believe our dependence on ecommerce, information and other technology systems, including technology provided by third parties, will increase in the future, and it is possible we may not be able to obtain, maintain or use such systems as quickly or as effectively as needed. Implementing new systems, modifying existing systems, and restoring such systems and technology following a shut-down could present technological and operational challenges which we are unprepared for. We continue to evaluate the adequacy of the ecommerce, information and other technology systems we use to operate our business. Our failure to adapt to changing technological needs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have agreements with third-party providers to maintain ecommerce and information technology systems, including content. We would be negatively impacted if such third parties fail to provide such services, including by way of malfunction of third-party sites, hardware, software and other equipment; service outages of third-party sites; third-party claims of data privacy violations, security breaches and intellectual property infringement; and poor integration of our technology into their software and services. System security risk issues and system failures could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers Computer hacking attacks, as well as computer mal ware, denial-of-service attacks and viruses, have become increasingly prevailant in recent years. Using such methods and others, experienced computer programmers, hackers and other users may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. As a result, we could incur significant expenses addressing problems created by security breaches of our network. Moreover, we could incur significant expenses in connection with system failures. In addition, hardware and operating system software and applications that we procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service that may impede our sales, distribution or other critical functions. In addition, our systems are not fully redundant and could be subject to failure. Our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient, and we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate us for any significant casualty loss. We are responsible for maintaining the privacy of personally identifiable information of our customers Through our sale transactions, loyalty programs and other methods, we obtain personally identifiable information about our customers which is subject to federal, state and international privacy laws. These laws are constantly changing. If we fail to comply with these laws, we may be subject to fines, penalties or other adverse actions. For example, we are highly dependent on the use of credit cards to complete sale transactions in our stores and through our websites, and if we fail to comply with Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standards, we may become subject to limitations on our ability to accept credit cards. Moreover, third parties may seek to access this information through improper means such as computer hacking, malware and viruses. Any incidents involving unauthorized access or improper use of our customers’ personally identifiable information could damage our reputation and brand and result in legal or regulatory action against us. Loss of key people or an inability to hire necessary and significant personnel could hurt our business Our ability to achieve and maintain operating efficiency and to anticipate and effectively respond to changing trends and consumer preferences depends in part on our ability to retain and attract senior management and other key personnel in our operations, merchandising, music and other departments. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to retain or attract qualified personnel as needed. The sudden loss of the services of key people could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Our supply chain has risks and uncertainties that could affect our sales and business The merchandise we sell is obtained from vendors and manufacturers in the United States and outside of the country. Generally, this product is shipped to our distribution centers in California and Tennessee, and from our distribution centers to our stores or directly to our customers using Federal Express and the United States Postal Service. Certain products we sell are imported and subject to delivery delays based on availability and port capacity. Our reliance on Federal Express and the United States Postal Service for shipments is subject to risks associated with their ability to provide delivery services that meet our shipping needs and our ability to obtain such services at an affordable cost. We are also dependent upon the ability to hire temporary associates to adequately staff our distribution centers, particularly during busy periods such as the holiday season. We may not be able to achieve or maintain operating efficiencies using two distribution centers that are located approximately 2,000 miles apart. Risks associated with contracting directly with manufacturers for merchandise could hinder our financial performance Over time we expect to source a greater percentage of our merchandise directly from manufacturers. We have limited experience in sourcing and importing merchandise directly from manufacturers. We may encounter administrative challenges and operational difficulties with the manufacturers from which we may source our merchandise. Operational difficulties could include reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control and failures to meet production deadlines. A manufacturer’s failure to ship merchandise to us on a timely basis or to meet the required quality standards could cause supply shortages that could result in lost sales. If a manufacturer conducts its operations in a manner that is illegal or regarded as unethical, it could affect our business and our reputation could be damaged. We could acquire merchandise without full rights to sell it, which could inhibit sales and lead to disputes or litigation We purchase licensed merchandise from vendors who represent that they hold manufacturing and distribution rights to such merchandise. We also contract directly with licensors to obtain the manufacturing and distribution rights. We do not independently verify whether these vendors legally hold adequate rights to the licensed properties they are manufacturing, distributing or licensing. If we license merchandise that we have not legally obtained the rights to sell, we could be obligated to remove such merchandise from our stores, incur costs associated with destruction of merchandise and be subject to liability under various civil and criminal causes of action, including actions to recover unpaid royalties and other damages. As we expand our efforts to contract directly with manufacturers and licensors for licensed merchandise, we may incur difficulties securing the necessary manufacturing and distribution rights. Even when we have secured the rights needed to sell such products in the United States, we may not be able to secure the rights to sell the products outside of the United States. There are litigation and other claims against us from time to time, which could distract management from our business activities and could lead to adverse consequences to our business and financial condition We are involved from time to time with litigation and other claims against us. Often these cases can raise complex factual and legal issues, which are subject to risks and uncertainties and which could require significant management time. Although we do not currently believe that the outcome of any current matter of litigation or claim against us will have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition, we have, in the past, incurred unexpected expense in connection with litigation matters. In the future, adverse settlements, judgments or resolutions may negatively impact earnings. Injunctions against us could have an adverse effect on our business by requiring us to do or prohibiting us from doing certain things. We may in the future be the target of material litigation, including class-action and securities litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Uncertainty in the global capital and credit markets may materially impair the liquidity of a portion our cash and investment portfolio We hold cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments, including auction rate securities (discussed in more detail in “NOTE 1 – Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” contained in the financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K). Continued failures of auctions for the auction rate securities we hold limit our ability to liquidate these investments and are expected to continue failing for some period of time. Although the money market funds and municipal bonds we hold are highly rated and are comprised of high-quality, liquid instruments, if the financial markets trading the underlying assets experience a disruption, we may need to temporarily rely on other forms of liquidity. In addition, a risk exists that our cash and investments may not always be optimally managed and this may affect our profitability and results of operations. 10 Our charter documents and other circumstances could prevent a takeover or cause dilution of our existing shareholders, which could be detrimental to existing shareholders Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a takeover of Hot Topic, Inc. For instance, our Articles of Incorporation include certain “fair price provisions” generally prohibiting business combinations with controlling or significant shareholders unless certain minimum price or procedural requirements are satisfied, and our Bylaws prohibit shareholder action by written consent. Additionally, our Board of Directors, or Board, has the authority to issue, without shareholder approval, up to 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock having such rights, preferences and privileges as designated by the Board. The issuance of these shares could have a dilutive effect on shareholders and potentially prohibit a takeover of Hot Topic, Inc. by requiring the preferred shareholders to approve such a transaction. We also have a significant number of authorized and unissued shares of our common stock available under our Articles of Incorporation. These shares provide us with the flexibility to issue our common stock for future business and financial purposes including stock splits, raising capital and providing equity incentives to employees, officers and directors. The issuance of these shares could result in dilution to our shareholders. We are dependent upon malls remaining popular as shopping destinations, the ability of shopping mall anchor tenants and other attractions to generate customer traffic and maintaining good relationships with shopping mall operators The global economic downturn and other factors have diminished the ability of shopping mall operators to operate profitably and, in some cases, forced them to declare bankruptcy or cease operations entirely. The ongoing slowdown in the United States economy, uncertain economic outlook, and other factors could continue to curtail shopping mall development, decrease shopping mall traffic, reduce the number of hours shopping mall operators keep their shopping malls open, cause shopping mall operators to lower their operational standards and negatively impact our lease contracts. Consolidation of ownership of shopping malls may give landlords more leverage in negotiations and adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms. Such consolidation may result in increased lease costs. We believe we have favorable relationships with shopping mall operators and developers, however if this changes it could inhibit our ability to negotiate with them and may make it more difficult for us to manage our leases, including for us to expand, remodel or relocate to certain sites. If our relations with shopping mall operators or developers become strained, or we otherwise encounter difficulties in leasing store sites, we may not be able to open stores in malls we would otherwise be interested in maintaining stores; we may not be able to negotiate lease terms favorable to the company; and we may be inhibited in our ability to close underperforming stores. We face intense competition The apparel, music and accessory categories within the retail industry in which we operate are highly competitive. Increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our competitors, particularly big-box retailers, may have the ability to sell merchandise at substantially lower prices than we are able to sell such merchandise. This may cause us to incur greater than anticipated price reductions and unanticipated increases in our inventories for such products. It may also cause us to elect not to sell such products, despite the fact the products would otherwise attract customers and sell well in our stores. Timing, seasonal issues and other fluctuations outside of our control could negatively impact our financial performance for given periods Our business, particularly our Hot Topic division, is subject to seasonal influences that affect our comparable store sales. There are heavier concentrations of sales during the back-to-school, Halloween and holiday (defined as the week of Thanksgiving through the first few days of January) seasons and other periods when schools are not in session. Our results of operations may fluctuate materially depending on, among other things, the timing of store openings and related pre-opening and other startup expenses; net sales contributed by new stores; increases or decreases in comparable store sales; timing, popularity of and our ability to obtain, certain pop culture-related licenses, including on an exclusive basis; releases of new music, film and television; releases of new music/pop culture-related products; our ability to efficiently source and distribute products; changes in our merchandise mix and the challenges involved in getting the right mix into stores at the right time; shifts in timing of certain holidays; weather conditions; and overall economic conditions. 11 Our profitability could be adversely affected by volatile commodity prices, including petroleum and cotton The profitability of our business depends to a certain degree upon the price of certain commodities, including petroleum and cotton products. We are affected by changes in such prices to the extent that such commodities are part of the costs of delivery of merchandise to our stores and to the extent that the commodities are used in the production of our merchandise. Higher gasoline prices may also affect the willingness of consumers to drive to our stores. Significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar or foreign exchange rates may affect our profitability Substantially all of our foreign purchases of merchandise have been negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. As a result, our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds and other trade disruptions. A portion of our revenues come from foreign markets. Changes in foreign exchange rates applicable to these markets may adversely affect our revenues, even if the volume of sales remains the same. We may not be able to repatriate revenues earned in foreign markets. Recording impairment charges for certain underperforming stores may negatively impact our future financial condition or results of operations, and closing stores might not have a positive impact on our operating results We are required to assess, and where appropriate, record a charge for, the impairment of underperforming assets. This may negatively impact our reported and future financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we continue to close stores that do not meet our expectations of profitability which may cause us to impair or accelerate the depreciation of certain store assets and incur additional amounts for lease termination, severance and other closing costs. There can be no assurance that we will not incur future impairment charges and store closure expenses for underperforming assets or that store closures will have a significant positive impact on our operating results. Changes in laws, including employment laws and laws related to our merchandise, could make conducting our business more expensive or change the way we do business Changes in laws and any future changes could make our operations more expensive or require us to change the way we do business. Changes in federal and state minimum wage laws could require us to change our entire wage structure for stores. Other laws related to treatment of employees, including laws related to employee benefits and privacy, could also negatively impact us, such as by increasing medical insurance costs and related expenses. Changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws, and private-party enforcement of existing laws, could lead to increased costs to us for certain merchandise, additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for sale, or serve as the basis for litigation. A disruption of imports may increase our costs and reduce our supply of merchandise We receive apparel and other merchandise from foreign sources, both purchased directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. As a result of our reliance on international vendors and manufacturers, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign and domestic laws and regulations, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which our merchandise is manufactured. In addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts or military conflicts could increase the risks of doing business with suppliers who rely on foreign markets. Trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, that are applicable to the merchandise we sell also could affect the importation of the merchandise and increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. Further, changes in tariffs or quotas for merchandise imported from individual foreign countries could lead us to shift our sources of supply among various countries. Any shift we might undertake in the future could result in a disruption of our sources of supply and lead to a reduction in our revenues and earnings. Supply chain security initiatives undertaken by the United States or foreign governments that impede the normal flow of product could also negatively impact our business. We incur costs associated with regulatory compliance, and this cost could be significant There are numerous regulatory requirements for public companies that we comply with or may be required to comply with in the future and compliance with these rules could result in the diversion of management’s time and attention, which could be disruptive to normal business operations. These regulations may include more stringent accounting standards, taxation requirements (including changes in applicable income tax rate, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), trade restrictions, regulations regarding financial matters, privacy and data security, environmental regulations, advertising, safety and product liability. We may in the future be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards, and doing so could be time-consuming and causes us to incur significant expense. If we do not satisfactorily or timely comply with these requirements, possible consequences could include sanction or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the Nasdaq Stock Market; fines and penalties; incomplete or late filing of our periodic reports, including our annual report on Form 10-K or quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or civil or criminal liability. 12 Government or consumer concerns about product safety could result in regulatory actions, recalls or changes to laws, which could harm our reputation, increase costs or reduce sales We are subject to regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission and similar state and international regulatory authorities, and our products could be subject to involuntary recalls and other actions by these authorities. We purchase merchandise from suppliers domestically as well as outside the United States. One or more of our suppliers might not adhere to product safety requirements or our quality control standards, and we might not identify the deficiency before such merchandise is received by our customers. Issues of product safety could result in a recall of products we sell. Additionally, regulatory authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission, have undertaken reviews of product safety and are in the process of enacting or are considering various proposals for more stringent laws and regulations. In particular, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, which imposes significant requirements on the sale of consumer products and enhanced penalties for noncompliance. Such regulations contain provisions which have uncertain applicability to products we sell, and such lack of certainty may inhibit our willingness carry products or cause us to carry product we otherwise would not. These regulations could result in delays in getting products to our stores, lost sales, the rejection of our products by consumers, damage to our reputation or material increases in our costs, and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, individuals and organization may assert legal claims for our non-compliance with consumer product rules and regulations, and we may be subject to lawsuits relating to these claims. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed or fall outside the scope of indemnities provided by third parties or outside the coverages of our insurance policies. Economic conditions could decrease consumer spending and reduce our sales Certain economic conditions could affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise we offer, including, among others, employment levels; salary and wage levels, particularly of teens and college-age adults; interest rates; availability of consumer credit; taxation; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. For example, the global economic downturn has significantly reduced consumer spending levels and mall customer traffic in general. The ongoing slowdown in the United States economy and uncertain economic outlook could continue to cause lower consumer spending levels and mall customer traffic which could adversely affect our sales results and financial performance. In addition, we are highly dependent on a significant level of teenage and college-age spending on music/pop culture-licensed and music/pop culture-influenced products, and we likely would be adversely affected if economic conditions limited such spending. War, terrorism and other catastrophes could negatively impact our customers, places where we do business and our expenses The continued threat of terrorism, heightened security and military action in response to this threat, any future acts of terrorism, and significant natural disasters or other catastrophic events may cause disruptions and create uncertainties that affect our business. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties negatively impact shopping patterns and/or shopping mall traffic, or adversely affect consumer confidence or the economy in general, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. A significant natural disaster or other catastrophic event affecting our facilities could materially affect our supply chain, our information system and other aspects of our operations. Our stock price could fluctuate substantially for reasons outside of our control Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market, which has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect our stock price without regard to our financial performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and comparable store sales; announcements by other apparel, accessory, music and gift item retailers; the trading volume of our stock; changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; litigation; overall economic and political conditions, including the global economic downturn; the condition of the financial markets, including the credit crisis; and other events or factors outside of our control could cause our stock price to fluctuate substantially. 13 Environmental risks associated with the retail industry may result in significant costs and decreased sales We are exposed to risks arising out of environmental matters and existing and potential laws relating to the protection of the environment. Adverse and unexpected weather conditions, including such conditions caused by the global climate change phenomena, could affect our supply chain, mall traffic and customer interest in our products. We receive apparel and other merchandise from foreign sources, both purchased directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. Stricter global and domestic greenhouse gas emission requirements may cause our vendors to incur higher costs, including increased transportation costs. There is a risk that we may occupy retail space that may require remediation to comply with environmental laws. In addition to potential liability for remediation costs, the cleanup process may cause our stores to be closed for an extended period of time, resulting in loss of sales. Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments None. 