ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included in this report in evaluating the Company and our business. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Cancellations, reductions or postponements of advertising, in part due to the economic downturn, could reduce our revenues. We have in the past derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a significant amount of our revenues from our advertisers. Other than some television network advertising that is presold on an annual basis, we generally have not obtained, and we do not expect to obtain, long-term commitments from advertisers. Therefore advertisers generally may cancel, reduce or postpone orders without penalty. Cancellations, reductions or postponements in purchases of advertising could, and often do, occur as a result of a general economic downturn; an economic downturn in one or more industries that have historically invested in advertising on our platforms; an economic downturn in one or more major markets such as Los Angeles, New York or Miami-Fort Lauderdale; a strike; changes in population, demographics, audience preferences and other factors beyond our control; or a failure to agree on contractual terms with advertisers. Due to the current economic downturn, many of our advertisers have reduced spending on advertising. Our net revenue was $2.0 billion for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 compared to $2.1 billion for the same period in 2007, in part due to reduced spending on advertising. The economy has worsened in the first three months of 2009 and there can be no assurance that the economy will not continue to worsen. If the economy continues to worsen, this may further adversely impact spending on advertising, which would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In addition, major incidents of terrorism, war, natural disasters or similar events may require us to program without any advertising. Any material cancellations, reductions, or postponements of advertising for any of the foregoing reasons would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Because the U.S. Hispanic population is concentrated geographically, our results of operations are sensitive to the economic conditions in particular markets and negative events in those markets could reduce our revenues. Approximately 33% of all U.S. Hispanics live in the Los Angeles, New York and Miami-Fort Lauderdale markets and the top ten U.S. Hispanic markets collectively account for approximately 55% of the U.S. Hispanic population. Our revenues are, therefore, concentrated in these key markets. As a result, an economic downturn, increased competition, or another significant negative event in these markets could reduce our revenues and results of operations more dramatically than other companies that do not depend as much on these markets. 14 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by strikes or other union job actions. We are directly or indirectly dependent upon highly specialized union members who are essential to the production of television programs and motion pictures. A strike by, or a lockout of, one or more of the unions that provide personnel essential to the production of television programs or motion pictures could delay or halt our ongoing production activities. Such a halt or delay, depending on the length of time, could cause a delay or interruption in our release of new television programs and motion pictures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Screen Actors Guild’s (“SAG”) major contracts with the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers expired in June 2008 and as the date of the filing of the annual report on Form 10-K, the parties have not entered into a replacement agreement. There is no assurance that SAG will not begin an industry-wide strike in the future. If a strike were to occur in the future and continue for an extended period of time, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Lack of audience acceptance of our content could decrease our ratings and, therefore, our revenues. Television and radio content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a television or radio program, and from the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with the program, depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public. The commercial success of a television or radio program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general or specific geographic economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are outside our control. Other television and radio stations may change their formats or programming, a new station may adopt a format to compete directly with one or more of our stations, or stations might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. Certain of the English-language networks and others are producing Spanish-language programming and simulcasting certain programming in English and Spanish. A decrease in our audience acceptance, whether because of these factors or otherwise, can lead to lower ratings. Rating points are the primary factors that are weighed when determining the advertising rates that we receive. Poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising revenues. As a result of the unpredictability of program performance and of competition, our stations’ audience ratings, market shares and advertising revenues may decline. Because our programming business is subject to varying popularity, which we cannot predict at the time we incur related costs, our results of operations have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, significantly from period to period. We acquire programming (including sports programming) and make long-term commitments in advance of a season and in some cases make multi-year commitments even though we cannot predict the ratings they will generate. In addition, we must still pay the same program license fees pursuant to the Amended PLA even if the programming supplied under the Amended PLA is no longer popular or is not utilized to the same extent as the programming that was previously utilized. We may replace unpopular programming before we recapture any significant portion of the costs incurred in connection with the programming or before we have fully amortized the costs. Operating results from our programming business fluctuate primarily with the acceptance of such programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. We report results of operations quarterly, and our results of operations and cash flows in any reporting period may be materially affected by the lack of popularity of programming, which may result in significant fluctuations from period to period. Thus, a shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the sports events for which we have acquired rights, or in the television programming we expect to air, could lead to a fluctuation in our results of operation. 15 Table of Contents The popularity of our network and TV stations and the amount of fees we are able to negotiate under our “retransmission consent” agreements with distributors could be adversely affected if Televisa prevails in its Internet claim. We receive substantial amounts of programming for our three networks from Televisa pursuant to the Amended PLA with Televisa. The programming we receive under the Amended PLA accounts for a majority of our prime time programming and a substantial portion of the overall programming on all three networks. In connection with the remaining litigation between us and Televisa involving the Original PLA, Televisa filed a complaint seeking a declaration that it may transmit or permit others to transmit any television programming into the United States over or by means of the Internet. This claim is not part of our settlement with Televisa and a separate trial with respect to the Internet issues is scheduled to begin April 21, 2009. We intend to continue to defend this remaining litigation and pursue our counterclaims vigorously. If Televisa were able to transmit or permit others to transmit television programming into the United States that is the same as the programming on our networks over or by means of the Internet, in a manner we are not able to make such programming available, our television audience may prefer to view the programming over the Internet. This could have a material adverse effect on the viewership of our TV stations and popularity of our network, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Also, if Televisa were able to transmit or permit others to transmit such programming into the United States over or by means of the Internet prior to or at the same time as we broadcast the same programming on our networks, cable operators and other distributors of our programming would likely pay lower fees under retransmission consent agreements or refuse to enter into such agreements on terms acceptable to us. The resulting lower revenues and/or viewership could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we do not successfully respond to rapid changes in technology, services and standards, we may not remain competitive. Technology in the video, telecommunications, radio, and data services used in the entertainment and Internet industries is changing rapidly. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on our businesses. Examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, satellite radio, video games, DVD players and other personal video and audio systems (e.g., iPods), wireless devices, text messaging and downloading from the Internet. For example, devices that allow users to view or listen to television or radio programs on a time-delayed basis and technologies which enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements, such as DVRs (e.g., TiVo) and portable digital devices, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers, and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues. In addition, further increases in the use of portable digital devices which allow users to view or listen to content of their own choosing, in their own time, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect our radio and television broadcasting advertising revenues. Other cable providers and direct-to-home satellite operators are developing new video compression techniques that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television marketplace into more specialized niche audiences. More television options increase competition for viewers and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and subscription revenues. Such a competitive environment may increase the demand for programming thereby making it more expensive to acquire new programming or renew current programming. The ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will affect our ability to continue to grow and increase our revenue. Changes in U.S. communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. The television and radio industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television and radio broadcasting 16 Table of Contents industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. For example, we are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our radio and television stations with maximum terms of eight years. We cannot assure you that the FCC will approve our future license renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation of each of our business segments and ownership of our radio and television properties. For example, from time to time, proposals have been advanced in the U.S. Congress and at the FCC to shorten license terms to less than eight years, to mandate the origination of certain levels and types of local programming, or to require radio and television broadcast stations to provide advertising time to political candidates for free. In addition, some policymakers maintain that cable operators should be required to offer a la carte programming to subscribers on a network by network basis or “family friendly” programming tiers. Unbundling packages of program services may increase both competition for carriage on distribution platforms and marketing expenses, which could adversely affect our cable networks’ results of operations. Our failure to reach agreement with cable operators on acceptable “retransmission consent” terms, or new laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of “must-carry” or retransmission consent rights, could significantly reduce our ability to obtain cable carriage and therefore revenues. The Communications Act prohibits cable operators from retransmitting commercial television and low power television signals without first obtaining the broadcaster’s consent. This permission is commonly referred to as “retransmission consent” and may involve some compensation from the cable company to the broadcaster for the use of the signal. Alternatively, a local commercial television broadcast station may require a cable operator that serves the same market as the broadcaster to carry its signal. A demand for carriage is commonly referred to as “must-carry.” If the broadcast station asserts its must-carry rights, the broadcaster cannot demand compensation from the cable operator. We have elected retransmission consent with respect to most cable systems in markets where we own television stations, and must carry with respect to other cable systems. In cases where we have elected retransmission consent, we must reach agreement with local cable operators over the terms on which our stations will be carried, including compensation from the cable operator. These agreements are typically renegotiated every three to five years. We have not yet reached agreement with all cable systems with respect to which we have currently elected retransmission consent. We cannot predict whether we will be able to reach agreement on acceptable terms with the operators of all cable systems with respect to which we elected retransmission consent. If we are unable to reach such agreement with a cable operator, we may choose to require that operator to cease carriage of our stations. If we are unable to execute retransmission consent agreements with respect to cable operators serving a material number of subscribers, it could reduce viewership and result in a diminution of revenues. In addition, a number of entities have commenced operation, or announced plans to commence operation of Internet protocol video systems, or IPTV, using digital subscriber line, fiber optic to the home and other distribution technologies. The issue of whether those services are subject to the existing cable television regulations, including must carry or retransmission consent obligations, has not been resolved. If IPTV systems gain a significant share of the video distribution marketplace, and new laws and regulations fail to provide adequate must carry and/or retransmission consent rights, our ability to distribute our programming to the maximum number of potential viewers will be limited and consequently our revenue potential will be limited. 17 Table of Contents Vigorous enforcement or enhancement of FCC indecency and other program content rules could have an adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations. FCC rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and/or indecent or profane material on television or radio broadcast stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. The FCC has stepped up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency, and has indicated that it would consider initiating license revocation proceedings for “serious” indecency violations. In the past three years, the FCC has found indecent content in a number of cases, and has issued fines to the offending licensees. The current maximum permitted fines per station if the violator is determined by the commission to have broadcast obscene, indecent or profane material are $325,000 per incident and $3,000,000 for a continuing violation, and the amount is subject to periodic adjustment for inflation. Fines have been assessed on a station-by-station basis, so that the broadcast of network programming containing allegedly indecent or profane material has resulted in fines levied against each station affiliated with that network which aired the programming containing such material. Appeals challenging the FCC’s underlying indecency standards are pending in the federal courts, and the FCC has placed a hold on resolving indecency complaints pending resolution of those appeals. The determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content could violate indecency standards, particularly where programming is live and spontaneous. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions that may adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets and any further impairment of a significant portion of our goodwill and other intangible assets could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill and intangible assets totaled approximately $9.0 billion at December 31, 2008. At least annually, we test our goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets for impairment and we continue to assess whether factors or indicators, such as a general economic slowdown, become apparent that would require an interim test. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products or services sold by our businesses and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to operations. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we performed our annual impairment test, which resulted in us recording an impairment loss of $1.6 billion related to goodwill and intangible assets. In addition, during the third quarter of 2008, due to adverse market conditions affecting us and lower trading multiples within the industries that we operate, as well as the overall economic slow down which has adversely affected our operating revenues and margins and the expectations for its duration, we performed an interim impairment test, which resulted in us recording an impairment loss of $3.7 billion related to goodwill and intangible assets. In the first quarter of 2008, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $115.1 million related to assets the Company intended to dispose of. Appraisals of any of our business segments impacting fair value of our assets or changes in estimates of our future cash flows could affect our impairment analysis in future periods and cause us to record either an additional expense for impairment of assets previously determined to be impaired or record an expense for impairment of other assets. Depending on future circumstances, we may never realize the full value of intangible assets. Any future determination or impairment of a significant portion of our goodwill and other intangibles could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding total indebtedness of approximately $10.6 billion, including capital lease obligations and an aggregate of $2.0 billion of senior notes. Included in our outstanding total indebtedness was $385.3 million under our $500.0 million bank second-lien asset sale bridge loan due March 29, 2009. On March 30, 2009, the Company expects to repay the $385.3 million balance on the bank second-lien 18 Table of Contents asset sale bridge loan with cash on hand. In addition, beginning on June 30, 2010, we will be required to repay 0.625% of the aggregate principal amount under both, our $7.0 billion bank senior secured term loan facility and our $450.0 million bank senior secured draw term loan facility. Further on March 12, 2009, we elected to pay interest on our $1.5 billion of 9.75% senior notes by increasing the principal amount of the notes by approximately $79.0 million for the interest period commencing on March 15, 2009. Our substantial level of indebtedness and other financial obligations increase the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due, in respect of our indebtedness, including the senior notes. Our substantial debt could also have other significant consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, competitive and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes on satisfactory terms or at all; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for operations and any future business opportunities; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities (as defined below), will be at variable rates of interest; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limit our planning flexibility for, or ability to react to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who may have less indebtedness and other obligations or greater access to financing. If we fail to make any required payment under our bank senior secured revolving credit facility, bank senior secured term loan facility, bank second-lien asset sale bridge loan and bank senior secured draw term loan facility (collectively, the “Senior Secured Credit Facilities”) or to comply with any of the financial and operating covenants included in the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, we will be in default. Lenders under such facilities could then vote to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and foreclose upon our and our subsidiaries’ assets securing such indebtedness. Other creditors might then accelerate other indebtedness. If any of our creditors accelerate the maturity of their indebtedness, we may not have sufficient assets to satisfy our obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or our other indebtedness. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although one of the indentures governing the senior notes and our Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, we may, at our option, subject to certain conditions, increase the senior credit facilities in an amount not to exceed $750 million. Moreover, none of our indentures imposes any limitation on our incurrence of liabilities that are not considered “Indebtedness” under the indenture, nor do they impose any limitation on liabilities incurred by subsidiaries, if any, that might be designated as “unrestricted subsidiaries.” If we incur additional debt above current indebtedness levels, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. 19 Table of Contents Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to service our debt and financial obligations and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding total indebtedness of approximately $10.6 billion, including capital lease obligations and an aggregate of $2.0 billion of senior notes. Included in our outstanding total indebtedness was $385.3 million under our $500.0 million bank second-lien asset sale bridge loan due March 29, 2009. On March 30, 2009, the Company expects to repay the $385.3 million balance on the bank second-lien asset sale bridge loan with cash on hand. In addition, beginning on June 30, 2010, we will be required to repay 0.625% of the aggregate principal amount under both, our $7.0 billion bank senior secured term loan facility and our $450.0 million bank senior secured draw term loan facility. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt, including the senior notes, amounts borrowed under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and other financial obligations, and to fund our operations will depend on our ability to generate substantial operating cash flow. Our cash flow generation will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the senior notes and borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, the credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial markets has had and may continue to have an impact on our liquidity. For example, we are currently unable to access part of our cash invested in The Reserve Primary Fund, a money market fund that has suspended redemptions and is being liquidated. We had invested approximately $371.4 million in this fund, and have recorded an investment loss of $11.3 million, including approximately $0.3 million of legal fees, on our investment in this fund in the third quarter of 2008. To date we have received a partial distribution of $317.4 million from the Reserve Primary Fund, representing approximately 85% of our investment in the fund. On December 3, 2008, the Reserve Primary Fund announced its plan of liquidation which will include future interim distributions, subject to a special reserve established to satisfy certain costs and expenses of the fund, including pending or threatened claims against the fund. While we expect to receive substantially all of our remaining holdings in this fund, we cannot predict when this will occur or the amount we will receive. It is possible that we may encounter difficulties in receiving the remaining distributions given the current market conditions. If we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. Any of these remedies may not, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, the indentures governing the senior notes and the credit agreement for our Senior Secured Credit Facilities may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. Because of these and other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to pay the principal, premium, if any, interest or other amounts on our indebtedness. Restrictive covenants in the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indentures may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. These agreements governing our indebtedness include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preferred stock; • pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or subordinated and certain other debt; 20 Table of Contents • make certain investments; • create liens on our or our subsidiary guarantors’ assets to secure debt; • create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our restricted subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the senior notes; • make certain capital expenditures; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with another person or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • sell assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; • alter the business that we conduct; and • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. The Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the senior notes contain various covenants and restrictions and a breach of any covenant or restriction could result in a default under those agreements. If any such default occurs, the lenders of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or the holders of the senior notes may elect (after the expiration of any applicable notice or grace periods) to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, a default under the indentures governing the senior notes would cause a default under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, and the acceleration of debt under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or the failure to pay that debt when due would cause a default under the indentures governing the senior notes (assuming certain amounts of that debt were outstanding at that time). The lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities also have the right upon an event of default thereunder to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. Further, following an event of default under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, the lenders under these facilities will have the right to proceed against the collateral. In addition, we are also subject to certain customary financial covenants under our credit agreement for our Senior Secured Credit facilities. We are in compliance with such financial covenants as of December 31, 2008, but there can be no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with such covenants in the future. Our business depends on the performance of our senior executives. Our business depends on the efforts, abilities and expertise of our senior executives. These individuals are important to our success because they have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel and identifying business opportunities. The loss of one or more of these key individuals could impair our business and development until qualified replacements are found. We cannot assure you that these individuals could quickly be replaced with persons of equal experience and capabilities. Although we have employment agreements with certain of these individuals, we could not prevent them from terminating their employment with us. We are controlled by the Sponsors, whose interests may not be aligned with ours or yours. We are controlled by the Sponsors, and therefore they have the power to control our affairs and policies, including entering into mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary transactions as well as decisions to issue shares, declare dividends, pay advisory fees and make other decisions, and they may have an interest in our doing so. The interests of the Sponsors could conflict with your interests in material respects. Furthermore, the Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us, as well as businesses that represent major customers of our businesses. The Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the Sponsors continue to own a significant amount of our outstanding capital stock, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 