Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to historical information, this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, relating to our financial condition, profitability, liquidity, resources, business outlook, proposed acquisitions, market forces, corporate strategies, consumer preferences, contractual commitments, legal matters, capital requirements and other matters. Documents incorporated by reference into this report may also contain forward-looking statements. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. To comply with the terms of the safe harbor, we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ substantially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in our forward-looking statements. When words and expressions such as: “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “plans,” “intends,” “objectives,” “goals,” “aims,” “projects,” “forecasts,” “possible,” “seeks,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “might,” “likely” or similar words or expressions are used, as well as phrases such as “in our view,” “there can be no assurance” or “there is no way to anticipate with certainty,” forward-looking statements may be involved. In the section that follows below, in cautionary statements made elsewhere in this report, and in other filings we have made with the SEC, we list important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors described below and other factors set forth in or incorporated by reference in this report. These factors and cautionary statements apply to all future forward-looking statements we make. Many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Do not put undue reliance on forward-looking statements or project any future results based on such statements or on present or prior earnings levels. Additional information concerning these, or other factors, which could cause the actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in our other SEC filings. Copies of those filings are available from us and/or the SEC. Our Relationships With And The Success Of NASCAR Is Vital To Our Success In Motorsports Our continued success in motorsports is dependent upon the success of NASCAR and our ability to secure favorable contracts with and maintain a good working relationship with them. NASCAR regularly issues and awards sanctioned events and their issuance depends, in large part, on maintaining good working relationships with NASCAR. Our NASCAR events are sanctioned on an annual basis with no contractual obligation to renew. By awarding a sanctioned event or a series of sanctioned events, NASCAR does not warrant, nor are they responsible for, the financial success of any sanctioned event. Our success is directly tied to our ability to negotiate favorable 6 terms to our sanction agreements, including the amount of the sanction fee and purse, and our ability to continue to derive economic benefits from such agreements, such as our share of live broadcast revenues. Our ability to obtain additional sanctioned events in the future and to negotiate favorable terms to our sanction agreements and the success of NASCAR in attracting drivers and teams, signing series sponsors and negotiating favorable television and/or radio broadcast rights is dependent on many factors which are largely outside of our control. As our success depends on the terms of our sanction agreements and the success of each event or series that we are promoting, a material change in the terms of a sanction agreement or a material adverse effect on NASCAR, such as the loss or defection of top drivers, the loss of significant series sponsors, or the failure to obtain favorable broadcast coverage or to properly advertise the event or series could result in a reduction in our revenues from live broadcast coverage, admissions, luxury suite rentals, sponsorships, hospitality, concessions and merchandise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes To Media Rights Revenues Could Adversely Affect Us Broadcast revenues that are paid to us by NASCAR represent the largest component of our revenues and earnings and any adverse changes to such revenues could adversely impact our results. NASCAR’s broadcast agreements, which expire in 2014, have yielded us significant cash flow. In October 2012, NASCAR signed an eight-year extension of its broadcast rights with FOX Sports Media Group (“FOX”). This agreement extends through the 2022 NASCAR season and allows FOX to retain the television rights to various NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races and the entire NASCAR Camping World Truck Series season. Coverage of other NASCAR series races that are not included in this agreement with FOX must still be negotiated by NASCAR. Any material changes in the broadcast industry that could lead to differences in historical practices or decreases in the term and/or financial value of future broadcast agreements could have a material adverse affect on our revenues and financial results. We Rely On Sponsorship Contracts To Generate Revenues We receive a portion of our annual revenues from sponsorship agreements, including the sponsorship of our various events and venue, such as “title,” “official product” and “promotional partner” sponsorships, billboards, signage and skyboxes. We are continuously in negotiations with existing sponsors and actively seeking new sponsors as there is significant competition for sponsorships. Some of our events may not secure a “title” sponsor every year, may not secure a sufficient number of sponsorships on favorable terms, or may not secure sponsorships sufficiently enough in advance of an event for maximum impact. Loss of our existing title sponsors or other major sponsorship agreements or failure to secure sponsorship agreements in the future on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Motorsports Events Face Intense Competition For Attendance, Television Viewership And Sponsorship We compete with other auto speedways for the patronage of motor racing spectators as well as for sponsorships. Moreover, racing events sanctioned by different organizations are often held on the same dates at different tracks. The quality of the competition, type of racing event, caliber of the event, sight lines, ticket pricing, location and customer conveniences, among other things, distinguish the motorsports facilities. In addition, all of our events compete with other sports and recreational events scheduled on the same dates. As a result, our revenues and operations are affected not only by our ability to compete in the motorsports promotion market, but also by the availability of alternative spectator sports events, forms of entertainment, changing consumer preferences and opportunities for corporations to acquire sponsorships. General Market And Economic Conditions, Including Consumer And Corporate Spending, Could Negatively Affect Our Financial Results Our financial results depend significantly upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer and corporate spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income and corporate budgets. The combination of high unemployment, high fuel prices, escalating health care costs, tight credit markets, difficult residential real estate and mortgage markets, stock market volatility, changes in (together with political uncertainty concerning) governmental policies relative to spending, taxation and regulation, among other factors, have led to low levels of consumer confidence. These economic factors have dampened, and may continue to dampen, 7 consumer and corporate spending, including adversely impacting disposable income and recreational and entertainment spending, resulting in a negative impact on our motorsports and non-motorsports activities. We are unable to quantify the effect of these economic factors, but we believe that reduced consumer and corporate spending has, and we believe will continue to, negatively impact admissions, sponsorship, advertising and hospitality spending, concession and souvenir sales demand, luxury suite, and other event related revenue, with related effects on our revenues, profitability and cash flows. High fuel prices could also significantly impact our future results. These factors can impact both attendance at our events and advertising and marketing dollars available from the motorsports industry’s principal sponsors and potential sponsors. Economic and other lifestyle conditions such as illiquid consumer and business credit markets adversely affect consumer and corporate spending thereby impacting our growth, revenue and profitability. Unavailability of credit on favorable terms or increases in interest rates can adversely impact our operations, growth, development and capital spending plans. We cannot determine when or whether economic conditions will improve. Other factors that can affect consumer and corporate spending include hurricanes, flooding, earthquakes and other natural disasters, elevated terrorism alerts, terrorist attacks, military actions, air travel concerns, and geopolitical events, as well as various industry and other business conditions. Such factors or incidents, even if not directly impacting us, can disrupt or otherwise adversely impact the financial results, spending sentiment and interest of our present or potential customers. There can be no assurance that consumer and corporate spending will not be further adversely impacted by current or unforeseen economic or geopolitical conditions, thereby possibly having a material adverse impact on our future operating results and growth. The Sales Tax And Property Tax Revenues To Service The Revenue Bonds For Infrastructure Improvements At Nashville May Be Inadequate In September 1999, the Sports Authority of the County of Wilson (Tennessee) issued $25,900,000 in revenue bonds to build local infrastructure improvements which benefit the operation of Nashville Superspeedway, of which $19,600,000 was outstanding on December 31, 2012. Debt service on the bonds is payable solely from sales taxes and incremental property taxes generated from the facility. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, $1,758,000 and $1,534,000, respectively, was available in the sales and incremental property tax fund maintained by the Sports Authority to pay the remaining principal and interest due under the bonds. During 2012, we paid $957,000 into the sales and incremental property tax fund and $733,000 was deducted from the fund for principal and interest payments. These bonds are direct obligations of the Sports Authority and therefore have historically not been required to be recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. In the event the sales taxes and incremental property taxes (“applicable taxes”) are insufficient to cover the payment of principal and interest on the bonds, we would become responsible for the difference. We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates for these bonds. In the event we were unable to make the payments, they would be made under a $19,929,000 irrevocable direct-pay letter of credit issued by our bank group. We would be responsible to reimburse the banks for any drawings made under the letter of credit. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and compliance with debt covenants. On August 3, 2011, we announced that Nashville Superspeedway had notified NASCAR that it would not seek 2012 sanction agreements and therefore we no longer promote NACAR events at this facility. Since the facility will no longer generate sales taxes from these events, we have estimated that a portion of the debt service may not be covered by applicable taxes. As a result, we recorded a $2,250,000 provision for contingent obligation reflecting the present value of the estimated portion of the Wilson County bonds debt service that may not be covered by applicable taxes from the facility. Due to changing interest rates, the provision for contingent obligation decreased by $316,000, net, in 2012 and is $1,934,000 at December 31, 2012. An increase in interest rates would result in an increase in the portion of debt service not covered by applicable taxes and therefore an increase in our liability. 8 We Have A Significant Amount Of Indebtedness As of December 31, 2012, we had total outstanding long-term debt of $19,700,000 under our credit facility. This is in addition to the Nashville Bonds described above. This indebtedness and any future increases in our outstanding borrowings could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; · increase our costs or create difficulties in refinancing or replacing our outstanding obligations; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and · subject us to the risks that interest rates and our interest expense will increase. In addition, our credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets and contains financial ratios that we are required to meet and other restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our ability to pay dividends, borrow additional funds, make acquisitions, create liens on our properties and make investments. On October 2, 2012, the credit agreement was modified to allow us to repurchase shares of our common stock in the open market and/or pay dividends with respect to our common stock for an aggregate amount of not more than $2,500,000 in any fiscal year. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet them. If there were an event of default under our credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay these amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness. The Seasonality Of Our Motorsports Events Increases The Variability Of Quarterly Earnings Our business has been, and is expected to remain, seasonal given that it depends on our outdoor event weekends. We derive substantially all of our motorsports revenues from admissions, event-related and broadcasting revenue attributable to our NASCAR-sanctioned events at Dover, Delaware which were held in June and September in 2012. In 2011, these events were held in May and October. Total revenues from these events were approximately 99%, 90% and 90% of total revenues for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As a result, quarterly earnings will vary. Substantially All Of Our Motorsports Revenue is Attributable to One Location Substantially all of our motorsports revenue comes from Dover International Speedway in Dover, Delaware. Any prolonged disruption of operations at this facility due to damage or destruction, inclement weather, natural disaster, work stoppages or other reasons could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain property and business interruption insurance to protect against certain types of disruption, but there can be no assurance that the proceeds of such insurance would be adequate to repair or rebuild our facilities or to otherwise compensate us for lost profits. Our Insurance May Not Be Adequate To Cover Catastrophic Incidents We maintain insurance policies that provide coverage within limits that are sufficient, in the opinion of management, to protect us from material financial loss incurred in the ordinary course of business. We also purchase special event insurance for motorsports events to protect against race-related liability. However, there can be no assurance that this insurance will be adequate at all times and in all circumstances. If we are held liable for damages beyond the scope of our insurance coverage, including punitive damages, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 9 In addition, sanctioning bodies could impose more stringent rules and regulations for safety, security and operational activities. Such regulations have included, for example, the installation of new retaining walls at our facilities, which have increased our capital expenditures, and increased security procedures which have increased our operational expenses. Bad Weather Can Have An Adverse Financial Impact On Our Motorsports Events We sponsor and promote outdoor motorsports events. Weather conditions, or even the forecast of poor weather, can affect sales of tickets, concessions and merchandise at these events. Although we sell many tickets well in advance of the outdoor events and these tickets are issued on a non-refundable basis, poor weather may adversely affect additional ticket sales and concessions and merchandise sales, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently maintain weather-related insurance for major events. Due to the importance of clear visibility and safe driving conditions to motorsports racing events, outdoor racing events may be significantly affected by weather patterns and seasonal weather changes. Any unanticipated weather changes could impact our ability to stage events. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Postponement And/Or Cancellation Of Major Motorsports Events Could Adversely Affect Us If one of our events is postponed because of weather or other reasons such as, for example, the general postponement of all major sporting events in this country following the September 11, 2001 terrorism attacks, we could incur increased expenses associated with conducting the rescheduled event, as well as possible decreased revenues from tickets, concessions and merchandise at the rescheduled event. If an event is cancelled, we could incur the expenses associated with preparing to conduct the event as well as lose the revenues, including live broadcast revenues associated with the event. If a cancelled event is part of a NASCAR series, we could experience a reduction in the amount of money received from television revenues for all of our NASCAR-sanctioned events in the series that experienced the cancellation. This would occur if, as a result of the cancellation, and without regard to whether the cancelled event was scheduled for one of our facilities, NASCAR experienced a reduction in broadcast revenues greater than the amount scheduled to be paid to the promoter of the cancelled event. Due To Our Concentrated Stock Ownership, Stockholders May Have No Effective Voice In Our Management We have elected to be treated as a “controlled corporation” as defined by New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Rule 303A. We are a controlled corporation because a single person, Henry B. Tippie, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, controls in excess of fifty percent of our voting power. This means that he has the ability to determine the outcome of the election of directors at our annual meetings and to determine the outcome of many significant corporate transactions, many of which only require the approval of a majority of our voting power. Such a concentration of voting power could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring us at a premium. In addition, as a controlled corporation, we are not required to comply with certain NYSE rules. We May Not Be Able To Maintain Our Listing With The NYSE Our Common Stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol “DVD.” We are required to maintain market capitalization of more than $50,000,000 (measured over a 30 day trading period) or stockholders’ equity of more than $50,000,000 in order to remain in compliance with NYSE continued listing standards. On November 4, 2011, we were notified by the NYSE that we are “below criteria” for these continued listing standards because, as of November 1, 2011, our 30 trading-day average market capitalization was $42.3 million and our stockholders’ equity as of September 30, 2011 was $40.9 million. We had 45 days from receipt of that notice to submit a plan to the NYSE and demonstrate our ability to achieve compliance with continued listing standards within 18 months. The plan we submitted was accepted by the NYSE. As a result, our common stock will continue to be listed on the NYSE, subject to quarterly reviews by the NYSE’s 10 Listing and Compliance Committee. As of December 31, 2012, we were in compliance with the NYSE’s market capitalization requirement. Non-compliance with NYSE continued listing standards or delisting from the NYSE could negatively impact us, including, without limitation, our relationships with stockholders, businesses and lenders, our access to debt and equity financing, and our ability to attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Securities traded in the over-the-counter market generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, through factors such as a reduction in the number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the number of market makers in the securities, reduction in securities analyst and news media coverage and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. Our Success Depends On The Availability And Performance Of Key Personnel Our continued success depends upon the availability and performance of our senior management team which possesses unique and extensive industry knowledge and experience. Our inability to retain and attract key employees in the future, could have a negative effect on our operations and business plans. We Are Subject To Changing Governmental Regulations And Legal Standards That Could Increase Our Expenses Our motorsports facilities are on large expanses of property which we own. Laws and regulations governing the use and development of real estate may delay or complicate any improvements we choose to make and/or increase the costs of any improvements or our costs of operating. If it is determined that damage to persons or property or contamination of the environment has been caused or exacerbated by the operation or conduct of our business or by pollutants, substances, contaminants or wastes used, generated or disposed of by us, or if pollutants, substances, contaminants or wastes are found on property currently or previously owned or operated by us, we may be held liable for such damage and may be required to pay the cost of investigation and/or remediation of such contamination or any related damage. State and local laws relating to the protection of the environment also can include noise abatement laws that may be applicable to our racing events. In addition certain laws and regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Occupational Safety and Health Act are constantly evolving. Changes in the provisions or application of federal, state or local environmental, land use or other laws, regulations or requirements to our facilities or operations, or the discovery of previously unknown conditions, could require us to make additional material expenditures to remediate or attain compliance. Regulations governing the use and development of real estate may prevent us from acquiring or developing prime locations for motorsports entertainment facilities, substantially delay or complicate the process of improving existing facilities, and/or increase the costs of any of such activities. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments, events or conditions. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ significantly from those forecast in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, stockholders should not overly rely or attach undue weight to our forward-looking statements as an indication of our actual future results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received any written comments that were issued within 180 days before December 31, 2012, the end of the fiscal year covered by this report, from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. 11 