ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included in this report in evaluating the Company and our business. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. We receive from Televisa a significant amount of our network programming and we are engaged in litigation with Televisa. We receive substantial amounts of programming for our three networks from Televisa, S.A. de C.V., pursuant to a Second Amended and Restated Programming License Agreement dated as of December 19, 2001 (the “PLA”), and a separate letter agreement of the same date granting us rights to rebroadcast Televisa's feeds of certain Mexican League soccer games (the “Soccer Agreement”). The programming we receive under the PLA and the Soccer Agreement account for a majority of our prime time programming and a substantial portion of the overall programming on all three networks. In May 2005, Televisa filed a lawsuit against us, alleging certain breaches of the PLA and the Soccer Agreement, as well as violations of Televisa's copyrights in certain programs. In August 2005, we answered Televisa's First Amended Complaint and asserted several Counterclaims against Televisa and its parent company, Grupo Televisa, S.A., for breaches of the PLA, the Soccer Agreement, and other agreements between our companies. Televisa filed a motion to dismiss certain of our counterclaims; that motion was denied by the Court on November 17, 2005. Thereafter, Televisa and Grupo Televisa filed their Answer to our Counterclaims. In that document, they asserted a number of affirmative defenses to our claims against them, and added, for the first time, an assertion that we were in material breach of the PLA and the Soccer Agreement. On February 16, 2006, Televisa and Grupo Televisa served a purported notice of material breaches under the PLA and the Soccer Agreement. On March 2, 2006, we responded to Televisa’s purported notice of material breaches. In our response, we asserted that the notice was procedurally defective and that Televisa’s breach claims were not, in any event, well-founded. We do not believe that we are in breach of these agreements at all and certainly not in material breach. We have paid certain amounts sued for under protest and have filed or will file counterclaims to recover such amounts. The PLA provides for cure periods of 90 days for material monetary breaches and 180 days for material non-monetary breaches. We intend to defend the litigation and pursue our counterclaims vigorously. If the Company were held to be in material breach and unable to effect a timely cure, Televisa could elect to terminate the PLA. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—“10. Contingencies.”) 17 Cancellations or reductions of advertising could reduce our revenues. We have in the past derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a significant amount of our revenues from advertisers. Other than some television network advertising that is presold on an annual basis, we generally have not obtained, and we do not expect to obtain, long-term commitments from advertisers. Therefore, advertisers generally may cancel, reduce or postpone orders without penalty. Cancellations, reductions or delays in purchases of advertising could, and often do, occur as a result of a strike; a general economic downturn; an economic downturn in one or more industries or in one or more geographic areas; changes in population, demographics, audience tastes and other factors beyond our control; or a failure to agree on contractual terms. In addition, major incidents of terrorism, war, natural disasters or similar events may require us to program without any advertising, which in turn would reduce our revenues and results of operations. In addition, our stations compete for audiences and advertising directly with other television and radio stations and the competitive climate can change rapidly and unpredictably in any particular geographic market. Other television and radio stations may change their formats or programming, a new station may adopt a format to compete directly with one or more of our stations, or stations might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. As a result of this competition, our stations’ audience ratings, market shares and advertising revenues may decline and any adverse change in a particular market could have a material adverse effect on the revenue of our stations located in that market and on the results of operations of our business as a whole. Because the U.S. Hispanic population is concentrated geographically, our results of operations are sensitive to the economic conditions in particular markets and negative events in those markets could reduce our revenues. Approximately 33% of all U.S. Hispanics live in the Los Angeles, New York and Miami-Fort Lauderdale markets and the top ten U.S. Hispanic markets collectively account for approximately 56% of the U.S. Hispanic population. Our revenues are similarly concentrated in these key markets. As a result, an economic downturn, increased competition, or another significant negative event in these markets could reduce our revenues and results of operations more dramatically than other companies that do not depend as much on these markets. We must successfully respond to rapid changes in technology, services and standards to remain competitive. Technology in the video, telecommunications, radio, music and data services used in the entertainment and Internet industries is changing rapidly. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on our businesses. Examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, satellite radio, new video formats and downloading from the Internet. For example, devices that allow users to view or listen to television or radio programs on a time-delayed basis and technologies, which enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements, such as DVRs and portable digital devices, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues. In addition, further increases in the use of portable digital devices which allow users to view or listen to content of their own choosing, in their own time, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect our radio and television broadcasting advertising revenues. Other cable providers and direct-to-home satellite operators are developing new techniques that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television marketplace into more specialized niche audiences. More television options increase competition for viewers and competitors 18 targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and subscription revenues. The ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will affect our ability to continue to grow and increase our revenue. Our voting structure could delay or prevent us from being acquired and could prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium for their shares of common stock. Mr. A. Jerrold Perenchio beneficially owns all of our outstanding Class P common stock, which gives him ten votes per share compared to the one vote per share of all of our other capital stock. As of December 31, 2005, and assuming no exercise of options or warrants, Mr. Perenchio controlled approximately 61% of the voting power of the Class A and P common stock (which vote together to elect all of our directors except two) and approximately 58% of our overall voting power. Therefore, Mr. Perenchio has control over all matters submitted to our stockholders for vote (subject to certain matters that require supermajority board approvals and subject to class voting required by law), including election of directors, proxy contests, mergers and other transactions that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. In addition, if either of our Class T and Class V Directors votes against a merger, consolidation, reorganization or sale of substantially all of our assets or liquidation, we will not be permitted to enter into such a transaction unless the transaction is approved by a majority of our Board and 60% of our shares outstanding (treating all shares as having a single vote for these purposes). Further, in such a transaction not resulting in a change in control, a vote of a Class T or Class V Director will be required if the powers, rights and privileges of the holders of the Class T and/or Class V common stock would be adversely affected. Because our television stations rely on “must carry” rights to obtain cable carriage, new laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of these rights or failures could significantly reduce our ability to obtain cable carriage and therefore revenues. Pursuant to the “must carry” provisions of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, television broadcast stations may elect to require that a cable operator carry its signal if the cable operator is located in the same market as the broadcast station. However, in such cases the broadcast station cannot demand compensation from the cable operator. Such mandatory carriage is commonly referred to as “must-carry.” The future of “must carry” rights is uncertain, especially as they relate to the carriage of digital television. Under the current FCC rules, must-carry rights extend to digital television signals only in limited circumstances. While proposed legislation to broaden such rights has been proposed, we cannot predict whether such legislation will be adopted or the details of any legislation that may be adopted. Our full-power television stations often rely on “must-carry” rights to obtain cable carriage on specific cable systems. New laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of these cable carriage rights could significantly reduce our ability to obtain cable carriage, which would reduce our ability to distribute our programming and consequently our ability to generate revenues from advertising. In addition, a number of entities have commenced operation, or announced plans to commence operation of internet protocol video systems, using digital subscriber line (“DSL”), fiber optic to the home (“FTTH”) and other distribution technologies. The issue of whether those services are subject to the existing cable television regulations, including must-carry obligations, has not been resolved. There are proposals in Congress and at the FCC to resolve this issue. We cannot predict whether must-carry rights will cover such IPTV systems. In the event IPTV systems gain a significant share of the video distribution marketplace, and new laws and regulations fail to provide adequate must-carry rights, our ability to distribute our programming to the maximum number of potential viewers will be limited and consequently our revenue potential will be limited. 19 We may need to allocate significant amounts of our cash flow to make payments on our indebtedness, which in turn could reduce our financial flexibility and ability to fund other activities. At December 31, 2005, we had total debt, including capital lease obligations of approximately $1.5 billion, including $314.0 million drawn under our revolving credit facility, which expires July 18, 2006. Although we are negotiating a new bank credit facility and expect to enter into a new credit agreement in the first quarter of 2006, we cannot assure you that we will have a new facility in place in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us. See “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our capital lease obligations and outstanding amounts under our current credit facility could have important consequences depending on our financial needs. For example, because it could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, the indebtedness could: · reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to downturns or fluctuations in our business; and · require us to seek alternative sources of debt or equity financing. Failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or waste our resources. In general, we may continue to grow rapidly and this strategy could involve numerous risks, including the risk that certain acquisitions may prove unprofitable or fail to generate anticipated cash flows. In addition, our growth strategy could result in a strain on our infrastructure and internal systems or require us to recruit additional senior management. We may not be able to fully realize the benefits expected from cross-promotion between our television, radio, music and Internet business. Failure to effectively integrate newly-acquired companies or newly-entered businesses could undermine the potential benefits intended by acquisitions or entry into new businesses, could distract our management or could require us to unexpectedly allocate substantial resources (financial and otherwise) to the integration efforts. Many of our competitors have greater resources and are more diversified than we are. There has been consolidation in the media industry and our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated and/or are part of large diversified corporate groups with a variety of other operations that can provide stable sources of earnings that may allow them better to offset fluctuations in the financial performance of their media operations. In addition, these competitors may have more resources with which to compete for ideas, storylines and scripts created by third parties as well as for actors, musicians, directors and other personnel required for production. The resources of these competitors may also give them an advantage in acquiring other businesses or assets that we might also be interested in acquiring. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Goodwill and intangible assets totaled approximately $6.5 billion at December 31, 2005, primarily attributable to acquisitions in the past three years. At least annually, the Company tests its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products or services sold by our businesses and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to operations. Depending on future circumstances, we may never realize the full value of our intangible 20 assets. Any future determination of impairment of a significant portion of our goodwill and other intangibles would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that the decision to explore strategic alternatives will successfully result in a transaction. We announced on February 8, 2006 that our Board of Directors has decided to begin a process to explore strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value. As previously announced, Univision intends to explore strategic alternatives, including but not limited to the raising of capital through the sale of securities or assets of the Company, a recapitalization, strategic acquisitions, and the combination, sale or merger of the Company with another entity. The process to explore strategic alternatives is subject to a number of uncertainties, both within and outside of our control, including those related to prevailing market conditions. As a result, we cannot assure you that the process will successfully result in a transaction or, if it does, that it would occur within a specified time period. We do not intend to disclose developments with respect to the exploration of strategic alternatives unless and until our Board of Directors has approved a specific transaction. If the exploration of strategic alternatives does result in a transaction, we are unable to predict what the market prices of our Class A Common Stock would be after announcement of the transaction. We cannot assure you that if the exploration of strategic alternatives results in a transaction, it will produce any increase for our stockholders in the market value of their holdings in our company. In addition, the market prices of our Class A Common Stock could be highly volatile for several months as we explore strategic alternatives and may continue to be more volatile if and when a transaction is announced or we announce that we are no longer exploring strategic alternatives. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2005 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 