Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in the Company involves risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the Company. This information should be considered together with the other information contained in this report and in the other reports and materials filed by us with the SEC, as well as news releases and other information publicly disseminated by us from time to time. Our business may be adversely affected by adverse economic conditions and other negative developments in the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry. Substantially all of our gross premiums written are generated from sales of non-standard personal automobile insurance policies. As a result of our concentration in this line of business, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry and our customers could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Continued weak economic conditions in the United States have resulted, and could continue to result, in fewer customers purchasing and maintaining non-standard personal automobile insurance policies and certain customers reducing their insurance coverage, which adversely impacts our revenues and profitability. Developments affecting the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry and our customers could have a greater effect on us compared with more diversified insurers that also sell other types of automobile insurance products or write other additional lines of insurance. Our results may fluctuate as a result of cyclical changes in the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry. The non-standard personal automobile insurance industry is cyclical in nature. Likewise, adverse economic conditions impact our customers and many will choose to reduce their coverage or go uninsured during a weak economy. Employment rates, sales of used vehicles, consumer confidence and other factors affect our customers’ purchasing habits. In the past, the industry has also been characterized by periods of price competition and excess capacity followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity. If new competitors enter the market, existing competitors may attempt to increase market share by lowering rates. Such conditions could lead to reduced prices, which would negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Given the cyclical nature of the industry and the economy, these conditions may negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Due to our largely fixed cost structure, our profitability may decline if our sales volume declines significantly. Our reliance on leased retail locations staffed by employee-agents results in a cost structure that has a high proportion of fixed costs as compared with other more traditional insurers. In times of increasing sales volume, our acquisition cost per policy decreases, improving our expense ratio, which we believe is one of the significant advantages of our business model. However, in times of declining sales volume, the opposite occurs. Decreases in our sales volume, without corresponding decreases in our costs, would adversely impact our results of operations and profitability. Our loss and loss adjustment expenses may exceed our reserves, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We establish reserves for the estimated amount of claims under the terms of the insurance policies underwritten by our insurance company subsidiaries. The amount of the reserves is determined based on historical claims information, industry statistics and other factors. The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process due to a number of factors, including the difficulty in predicting the frequency and severity of claims, the rate of inflation, changes in trends, ongoing interpretation of insurance policy provisions by courts, inconsistent decisions in lawsuits regarding coverage and broader theories of liability. Any changes in claims settlement practices can also lead to changes in loss payment patterns, which are used to estimate reserve levels. Our ability to accurately estimate our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves may be made more difficult by changes in our business, including entry into new markets, changes in sales practices, or changes in our customers’ purchasing habits. If our reserves prove to be inadequate, we will be required to increase our loss reserves and the amount of any such increase would reduce our income in the period that the deficiency is recognized. The historic development of reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses may not necessarily reflect future trends in the development of these amounts. Consequently, our actual losses could materially exceed our loss reserves, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or other-than-temporary impairment losses, which could reduce our profitability. Our results of operations depend, in part, on the performance of our investment portfolio. At June 30, 2011, substantially all of our investment portfolio was invested either directly or indirectly in debt securities, primarily in marketable, investment-grade, U.S. government securities, municipal bonds, corporate bonds and collateralized mortgage obligations. Fluctuations in interest rates and economic declines affect our returns on, and the fair value of, debt securities. Unrealized gains and losses on debt securities are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) and increase or decrease our stockholders’ equity. At June 30, 2011, the fair value of our investment portfolio exceeded the amortized cost by $9.5 million. An increase in interest rates could reduce the fair value of our investments in debt securities. At June 30, 2011, the impact of an immediate 100 basis point increase in market interest rates on our fixed maturities and cash equivalents portfolio would have resulted in an estimated decrease in fair value of 3.4%, or approximately $6.1 million. Defaults by third parties who fail to pay or perform obligations could reduce our investment income and could also result in investment losses to our portfolio. See “Critical Accounting Estimates — Investments” in Item 7 of this report and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements regarding determination of other-than-temporary impairment losses on investment securities. Our business may be adversely affected by negative developments in the states in which we operate. We currently operate in 12 states located primarily in the Southeastern and Midwestern United States. For the year ended June 30, 2011, approximately 69% of our premiums earned were generated from insurance policies written in five states. Our revenues and profitability are affected by prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory, competitive and other conditions in the states in which we operate. Changes in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for us to conduct business. Adverse regulatory developments, which could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, restrictions on rate increases, fundamental changes to the design or implementation of the automobile insurance regulatory framework, or economic conditions that result in fewer customers purchasing or maintaining insurance (or purchasing or maintaining reduced coverage’s), could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. These developments could have a greater effect on us, as compared with more diversified insurers that also sell other types of automobile insurance products, write other additional lines of insurance coverage’s or whose premiums are not concentrated in a single line of insurance. Our business is highly competitive, which may make it difficult for us to market our core products effectively and profitably. The non-standard personal automobile insurance business is highly competitive. We believe that our primary insurance company competition comes not only from national insurance companies or their subsidiaries, but also from non-standard insurers and independent agents that operate in a specific region or single state in which we also operate. We believe that our significant competitors are the Affirmative, Berkshire Hathaway (which includes GEICO), Bristol West, Direct General, Infinity, Permanent General, Progressive and Safe Auto insurance groups. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, and they may offer a broader range of products or competing products at lower prices, and may offer products through multiple distribution channels. Our revenues, profitability and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are required to decrease or are unable to increase prices to stay competitive, or if we do not successfully retain our current customers and attract new customers. In addition, innovation by competitors or other market participants may increase the level of competition in the industry. This can include product, pricing, or marketing innovations, new or improved services, technology advances, or new modes of doing business that enhance the customer’s ability to shop and compare prices from multiple companies, among other initiatives. Our ability to react to such advances and navigate the new competitive environment is important to our success. 13 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K Our ability to attract, develop, and retain talented employees, managers, and executives, and to maintain appropriate staffing levels, is critical to our success. Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop, and retain talented employees, including executives, other key managers and employee-agents. Our loss of certain key employees, or the failure to attract and develop talented new executives and managers, could have a materially adverse effect on our business. In addition, we must forecast volume and other factors in changing business environments with reasonable accuracy and adjust our hiring and training programs and employment levels accordingly. Our failure to recognize the need for such adjustments, or our failure or inability to react appropriately on a timely basis, could lead either to over-staffing (which would adversely affect our cost structure) or under-staffing (impairing our ability to service our business) in one or more locations. In either such event, our financial results, customer relationships, and brand could be materially adversely affected. Pricing, claim and coverage issues and class action litigation are continually emerging in the automobile insurance industry, and these issues could adversely impact our revenues, profitability, or our methods of doing business. As automobile insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions change, litigation and unexpected and unintended issues related to claims, coverage’s and business practices may emerge. These issues can have an adverse effect on our business by subjecting us to liability, changing the way we price and market our products, extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, requiring us to obtain additional licenses or increasing the size of claims. Examples of some issues include: • concerns over the use of an applicant’s credit score or zip code as a factor in making risk selections and pricing decisions; • plaintiffs targeting automobile insurers in purported class action litigation relating to sales and marketing practices and claims-handling practices, such as total loss evaluation methodology, the use of aftermarket (non-original equipment manufacturer) parts and the alleged diminution in value to insured’s’ vehicles involved in accidents; and • consumer groups lobbying state legislatures to regulate and require separate licenses for individuals and companies engaged in the sale of ancillary products or services. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging issues could subject us to liability or negatively affect our revenues, profitability, or our methods of doing business. We may have difficulties successfully implementing and maintaining our new pricing program. We are currently implementing a new pricing program that is based on multivariate analysis of our historical results and will use insurance scoring as a variable. The new pricing program has been implemented in nine of the states in which we operate, and implementation in our remaining states is continuing. The success of our new pricing program will depend on our ability to properly design and accurately set rates in each of the states in which we currently operate. There are no assurances that this new pricing program will be approved by all of the insurance departments in these states. In addition, our success is also dependent upon our ability to develop and maintain information systems to effectively support the administration of this program. Our failure to properly design and price this new program could cause us to under price risks, which would negatively affect our loss ratio, or we could overprice risks, which could make our rates uncompetitive and reduce our number of policies in force. The inability to successfully implement this new program could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K Our business may be adversely affected if we do not underwrite risks accurately and charge adequate rates to policyholders. Our financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations depend on our ability to underwrite and set rates accurately for a full spectrum of risks. The role of the pricing function is to ensure that rates are adequate to generate sufficient premium to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses, and underwriting expenses, and to earn a profit. Pricing involves the acquisition and analysis of historical accident and loss data, and the projection of future accident trends, loss costs and expenses, and inflation trends, among other factors, for each of our products and in many different markets. As a result, our ability to price accurately is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: • the availability of sufficient reliable data; • uncertainties inherent in estimates and assumptions, generally; • our ability to conduct a complete and accurate analysis of available data; • our ability to timely recognize changes in trends and to predict both the severity and frequency of future losses with reasonable accuracy; • our ability to predict changes in certain operating expenses with reasonable accuracy; • the development, selection, and application of appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies; • our ability to innovate with new pricing strategies, and the success of those innovations; • our ability to implement rate changes and obtain any required regulatory approvals on a timely basis; • our ability to predict policyholder retention accurately; • unanticipated court decisions, legislation, or regulatory action; • the occurrence and severity of catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, hail storms, other severe weather, and terrorist events; • our understanding of the impact of ongoing changes in our claim settlement practices; and • changing driving patterns. The realization of one or more of such risks may result in our pricing being based on inadequate or inaccurate data or inappropriate analyses, assumptions, or methodologies, and may cause us to estimate incorrectly future changes in the frequency or severity of claims. As a result, we could under price risks, which would negatively affect our underwriting profit margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our volume and competitiveness. In either event, our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, under pricing insurance policies over time could erode the surplus of one or more of our insurance subsidiaries, constraining our ability to write new business. Our results are dependent on our ability to adjust claims accurately. We must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made under our insurance policies. Many factors can affect our ability to pay claims accurately, including the training, experience, and skill of our claims representatives, the extent of and our ability to recognize fraudulent or inflated claims, the effectiveness of our management, and our ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures, technologies, and systems to support our claims functions. Our failure to pay claims fairly, accurately, and in a timely manner, or to deploy claims resources appropriately, could result in unanticipated costs to us, lead to material litigation, undermine customer goodwill and our reputation in the marketplace, and impair our brand image and, as a result, materially adversely affect our competitiveness, financial results, prospects, and liquidity. We may write-off intangible assets, such as goodwill. As a result of purchase accounting for our business combination transactions, our consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2011 contained intangible assets designated as goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets totaling $25.9 million. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of value of intangible assets. As circumstances change, we cannot assure you that the value of these intangible assets will be realized by us. If we determine that a material impairment has occurred, we will be required to write-off the impaired portion of intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. 15 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on paying dividends to our holding company. Our holding company may rely, in part, on receiving dividends from the insurance company subsidiaries to pay its obligations. State insurance laws limit the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends and require our insurance company subsidiaries to maintain specified minimum levels of statutory capital and surplus. These restrictions affect the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company and may require our subsidiaries to obtain the prior approval of regulatory authorities, which could slow the timing of such payments or reduce the amount that can be paid. The limits on the amount of dividends that can be paid by our insurance company subsidiaries may affect the ability of our holding company to pay its obligations. The dividend-paying ability of the insurance company subsidiaries is discussed in Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. Our ability to use net operating loss carry forwards to reduce tax payments may be limited by applicable law. Based on our calculations and in accordance with the rules stated in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), we do not believe that any “ownership change,” as described in the following paragraph and as defined in Section 382 of the Code, has occurred with respect to our net operating losses (“NOLs”) and accordingly we believe that there was no annual limitation under Section 382 of the Code on our ability to use NOLs to reduce our past taxable income. We did not obtain, and do not plan to obtain, an Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) ruling or opinion of counsel regarding either of these conclusions. All NOLs that were subject to Section 382 as a result of the April 2004 acquisition of USAuto Holdings, Inc. (“US Auto”) have now expired. However, related NOLs of $18.4 million were utilized in years still subject to examination by federal tax authorities. Generally, an ownership change occurs if certain persons or groups increase their aggregate ownership of our total capital stock by more than 50 percentage points in any three-year period. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use our NOLs to reduce income taxes is limited to an annual amount (the “Section 382 limitation”) equal to the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long term tax-exempt interest rate, which is published monthly by the IRS. In the event of an ownership change, NOLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year will continue to be allowed as carry forwards for the remainder of the carry forward period and such excess NOLs can be used to offset taxable income for years in the carry forward period subject to the Section 382 limitation in each year. Regardless of whether an ownership change occurs, the carry forward period for NOLs is 20 years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the NOLs were incurred. The most recent losses that gave rise to our current NOLs were incurred in 2011 and will expire in 2031. If the carry forward period for any NOL were to expire before that NOL had been fully utilized, the use of the unutilized portion of that NOL would be permanently prohibited. Our use of new NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected by the Section 382 limitation, unless there were another ownership change after those new NOLs arose. It is impossible for us to state that an ownership change will not occur in the future. Limitations imposed by Code Section 382 and the restrictions contained in our certificate of incorporation may limit our ability to issue additional stock to raise capital or acquire businesses. To the extent not prohibited by our certificate of incorporation, we may decide in the future that it is necessary or in our interest to take certain actions that could result in an ownership change. Code Section 269 permits the IRS to disallow any deduction, credit or allowance, including the utilization of NOLs, that otherwise would not be available but for the acquisition of control of a corporation, including acquisition by merger, for the principal purpose of avoiding federal income taxes, including avoidance through the use of NOLs. If the IRS were to assert that the principal purpose of the April 2004 acquisition of USAuto was the avoidance of federal income tax, we would have the burden of proving that this was not the principal purpose. The determination of the principal purpose of a transaction is purely a question of fact and requires an analysis of all the facts and circumstances surrounding the transaction. Courts generally have been reluctant to apply Code Section 269 where a reasonable business purpose existed for the timing and form of the transaction, even if the availability of tax benefits was also an acknowledged consideration in the transaction. We think that Code Section 269 should not apply to the acquisition of USAuto because we can show that genuine business purposes existed for the USAuto acquisition and that tax avoidance was not the principal purpose for the merger. Our primary objective of the merger was to seek long-term growth for our stockholders through an acquisition. To that end, we redeployed a significant amount of our existing capital and offered our existing stockholders the right to make a substantial additional investment in the Company to facilitate the acquisition of USAuto. If, nevertheless, the IRS were to assert that Code Section 269 applied and if such assertion were sustained, the utilization of our past NOLs would be severely limited or extinguished. Due to the fact that the application of Code Section 269 is ultimately a question of fact, there can be no assurance that the IRS would not prevail if it were to assert the application of Code Section 269. 16 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to statutory capital and surplus requirements and other standards, and their failure to meet these requirements or standards could subject them to regulatory actions. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to RBC standards and other minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements imposed under the laws of their respective states of domicile. The RBC standards, which are based upon the RBC Model Act adopted by the NAIC, require our insurance company subsidiaries to annually report their results of RBC calculations to the state departments of insurance and the NAIC. Failure to meet applicable RBC requirements or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements could subject our insurance company subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on their writing of additional business, state supervision or even liquidation. Any changes in existing RBC standards or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements may require our insurance company subsidiaries to increase their statutory capital and surplus levels, which they may be unable to do. This calculation is performed on a calendar year basis, and at December 31, 2010, our insurance company subsidiaries maintained RBC levels in excess of an amount that would require any corrective actions on their part. State regulators also screen and analyze the financial condition of insurance companies using the NAIC IRIS system. As part of IRIS, the NAIC database generates key financial ratio results obtained from an insurer’s annual statutory statements. A ratio result falling outside the defined range of IRIS ratios may result in further examination by a state regulator to determine if corrective action is necessary. At December 31, 2010, our insurance company subsidiaries had no IRIS ratios outside the defined ranges. We cannot assure you however that regulatory authorities will not conduct any such examination of the financial condition of our insurance company subsidiaries, or of the outcome of any such investigation. See “Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment.” We rely on our information technology and communication systems, and the failure of these systems could materially adversely affect our business. Our business is highly dependent on the proprietary integrated technology systems that enable timely and efficient communication and data sharing among the various segments of our integrated operations. These systems are used in all our operations, including quotation, policy issuance, customer service, underwriting, claims, accounting, and communications. We have a technical staff that develops, maintains and supports all elements of our technology infrastructure. However, disruption of power systems or communication systems or any failure of our systems could result in deterioration in our ability to respond to customers’ requests, write and service new business, and process claims in a timely manner. We believe we have appropriate types and levels of insurance to protect our real property, systems, and other assets. However, insurance does not provide full reimbursement for all losses, both direct and indirect, that may result from an event affecting our information technology and communication systems. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophes may result in an increase in the number and amount of claims filed against us. Our business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including natural events, such as severe winter weather, hurricanes, tornados, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, thunderstorms and fires, and other events, such as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and severe weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. Severe weather conditions generally result in more automobile accidents and damage, leading to an increase in the number of claims filed and/or the amount of compensation sought by claimants. We may have difficulties in managing any expansion into new markets. Our future growth plans may include expanding into new states by opening new retail locations, acquiring the business and assets of other companies, or introducing additional insurance products or distribution methods. In order to grow our business successfully, we must apply for and maintain necessary licenses, properly design and price our products and identify, hire and train new employees. Our expansion would also place significant demands on our existing management, operations, systems, accounting, internal controls and financial resources. Any failure by us to manage growth and to respond to changes in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K A few of our stockholders have significant control over us, and their interests may differ from yours. Three of our stockholders, Gerald J. Ford, our Chairman of the Board; Stephen J. Harrison, our Chief Executive Officer and a current director; and Thomas M. Harrison, Jr., a current director, in the aggregate, control approximately 62% of our outstanding common stock. If these stockholders acted or voted together, they would have the power to control the election and removal of our directors. They would also have significant control over other matters requiring stockholder approval, including the approval of major corporate transactions and proposed amendments to our certificate of incorporation. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, as well as frustrate attempts to replace or remove current management, even when a change may be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Furthermore, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of the Company or other stockholders. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates or integrating their operations, which could harm our financial results. Our growth strategy may include acquiring other companies and businesses. In order to grow our business by acquisition, we must identify acquisition candidates and successfully integrate the acquired operations. We could face increased costs if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of any acquired business into our operations, and we could experience disruption of our business and distraction of our management, which may not be offset by corresponding increases in revenues. The integration of operations after an acquisition is subject to risks, including, among others, loss of key personnel of the acquired company, difficulty associated with assimilating the personnel, information systems and operations of the acquired company, potential disruption of ongoing business, maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and impairment of the acquired company’s reputation and relationships with its employees and clients. It is also possible that we may not realize, either at all or in a timely manner, any or all benefits from acquisitions and may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisitions. Failure to successfully integrate any acquisitions could materially adversely affect the results of our operations. We and our subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision that may restrict our ability to earn profits. We and our subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by the insurance departments in the states where our subsidiaries are domiciled and where our subsidiaries sell insurance and ancillary products, issue policies and handle claims. Certain regulatory restrictions and prior approval requirements may affect our subsidiaries’ ability to operate, change their operations or obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner or may increase our costs and reduce profitability. Among other things, regulation and supervision of us and our subsidiaries extends to: Required Licensing. We and our subsidiaries operate under licenses issued by various state insurance authorities. These licenses govern, among other things, the types of insurance coverages, agency and claims services and motor club products that we and our subsidiaries may offer consumers in the particular state. If a regulatory authority denies or delays granting any such license, our ability to enter new markets or offer new products could be substantially impaired. Transactions Between Insurance Companies and Their Affiliates. Our insurance company subsidiaries are organized and domiciled under the insurance statutes of Texas, Georgia and Tennessee. The insurance laws in these states provide that all transactions among members of an insurance holding company system must be done at arm’s length and shown to be fair and reasonable to the regulated insurer. Transactions between our insurance company subsidiaries and other subsidiaries generally must be disclosed to the state regulators, and prior approval of the applicable regulator generally is required before any material or extraordinary transaction may be consummated. State regulators may refuse to approve or delay approval of such a transaction, which may impact our ability to innovate or operate efficiently. Regulation of Rates and Policy Forms. The insurance laws of most states in which our insurance company subsidiaries operate require insurance companies to file premium rate schedules and policy forms for review and approval. State insurance regulators have broad discretion in judging whether our rates are adequate, not excessive and not unfairly discriminatory. The speed at which we can change our rates in 18 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K response to market conditions or increasing costs depends, in part, on the method by which the applicable state’s rating laws are administered. Generally, state insurance regulators have the authority to disapprove our requested rates. If as permitted in some states, we begin using new rates before they are approved, we may be required to issue premium refunds or credits to our policyholders if the new rates are ultimately disapproved by the applicable state regulator. In some states, there has been pressure in past years to reduce premium rates for automobile and other personal insurance or to limit how often an insurer may request increases for such rates. In states where such pressure is applied, our ability to respond to market developments or increased costs in that state may be adversely affected. Investment Restrictions. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of their investment portfolios and that limit the amount of investments in certain categories. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause non-conforming investments to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and, in some instances, would require divestiture. If a non-conforming asset is treated as a non-admitted asset, it would lower the affected subsidiary’s surplus and thus, its ability to write additional premiums and pay dividends. Restrictions on Cancellation, Non-Renewal or Withdrawal. Many states have laws and regulations that limit an insurer’s ability to exit a market. For example, certain states limit an automobile insurer’s ability to cancel or not renew policies. Some states prohibit an insurer from withdrawing from one or more lines of business in the state, except pursuant to a plan approved by the state insurance department. The state insurance department may disapprove a plan that may lead to market disruption. These laws and regulations that limit cancellations and non-renewals and that subject business withdrawals to prior approval restrictions could limit our ability to exit unprofitable markets or discontinue unprofitable products in the future. Our success depends partly on our ability to efficiently manage complexity. The fast pace of change and innovation in our business, combined with ongoing technological, regulatory, and other developments, results in significant levels of complexity in our products and in the systems and processes we use to run our business. The complexity may create a barrier to implementing certain new ideas, and may lead to the increased possibility of error in executing our business strategies, as well as difficult management decisions regarding the allocation of available resources (such as information technology resources) for multiple potential initiatives or projects. Our inability to manage this complexity effectively, to bring new ideas to market, to allocate and prioritize appropriately our resources, or to prevent errors could result in substantially increased costs, liability to third parties, regulatory investigations and sanctions, poor customer experiences, and damage to our brand. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may prevent a takeover or a change in management that you may deem favorable. Our certificate of incorporation contains prohibitions on the transfer of our common stock to avoid limitations on the use of the NOL carryforwards and other federal income tax attributes. These restrictions could prevent or inhibit a third party from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation generally prohibits, without the prior approval of our board of directors, any transfer of common stock, any subsequent issue of voting stock or stock that participates in our earnings or growth, and certain options with respect to such stock, if the transfer of such stock or options would (i) cause any group or person to own 4.9% or more, by aggregate value, of the outstanding shares of our common stock, (ii) increase the ownership position of any person or group that already owns 4.9% or more, by aggregate value, of the outstanding shares of our common stock, or (iii) cause any person or group to be treated like the owner of 4.9% or more, by aggregate value, of our outstanding shares of common stock for tax purposes. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also contain the following provisions that could prevent or inhibit a third party from acquiring us: • the requirement that only stockholders owning at least one-third of the outstanding shares of our common stock may call a special stockholders’ meeting; and • the requirement that stockholders owning at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our common stock must approve any amendment to our certificate of incorporation provisions concerning the transfer restrictions and the ability to call special stockholders’ meetings. 19 Table of Contents FIRST ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION 10-K Under our certificate of incorporation, we may issue shares of preferred stock on terms that are unfavorable to the holders of our common stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock could also prevent or inhibit a third party from acquiring us. The existence of these provisions could depress the price of our common stock, could delay or prevent a takeover attempt or could prevent attempts to replace or remove incumbent management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 