Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, or future results of operations. We must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences. Forecasting consumer demand for our merchandise is difficult given the nature of changing fashion trends and consumer preferences, which can vary by season and from one geographic region to another and be affected by general economic conditions that are difficult to predict. The global specialty retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated, in part, by fashion and season. In addition, our merchandise assortment differs in each seasonal flow and at any given time our assortment may not resonate with our customer base. On average, we begin the design process for apparel nine to ten months before merchandise is available to consumers, and we typically begin to make purchase commitments four to eight months in advance. These lead times make it difficult for us to respond quickly to changes in demand for our products. To the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets, our sales will be adversely affected and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our results of operations. We are working to improve our merchandise assortment to provide fashionable looks and current styles interpreted appropriately for our customer. Creating product with a new creative aesthetic designed for our core and target customer demographic increases our design risk. If our new design aesthetic and merchandise assortments do not resonate with our core and target customer demographic, our sales, gross margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our inventory levels and merchandise assortments fluctuate seasonally, and at certain times of the year, such as during the holiday season, we maintain higher inventory levels and are particularly susceptible to risks related to demand for our merchandise. If the demand for our merchandise were to be lower than expected, causing us to hold excess inventory, we would be forced to further discount merchandise, which reduces our gross margins, results of operations and operating cash flows. If we were to carry low levels of inventory and demand is stronger than we anticipate, we may not be able to reorder merchandise on a timely basis to meet demand, which may adversely affect sales and customer satisfaction. Economic conditions have impacted consumer spending and may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Consumer spending patterns are highly sensitive to the economic climate and overall consumer confidence. Consumer spending continues to be impacted by the high levels of unemployment, declines in home values, restrictions on the availability of credit, volatile energy and food costs, and other negative economic conditions, nationally and regionally. We continue to be affected by challenging macroeconomic conditions which are evidenced in our business by a highly competitive retail selling environment and low retail store traffic. We believe these conditions will continue into fiscal 2011 and for the foreseeable future. If consumer spending on apparel and accessories continues to decline and demand for our products decreases further, we may be forced to further discount our merchandise or sell it at a loss, which would adversely affect revenues, gross margins, earnings and operating cash flows. In addition, higher costs for transportation, raw materials, labor, insurance and healthcare, and other negative economic factors may adversely affect our cost of sales and operating expenses. 9 Table of Contents We may be unable to maintain the value of our brand. Our success is driven by the value of the Coldwater Creek brand. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandise assortment, and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Our brand could also be adversely affected by negative publicity targeting our public image and reputation. Deterioration of the value of our brand may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our credit facility contains borrowing base and other provisions that may restrict our ability to access it. The distress in the financial markets has resulted in extreme volatility in securities prices and diminished liquidity and credit availability, which may adversely affect our liquidity. Additionally, lower than expected sales that negatively impact our cash flows could require us to borrow under our credit facility. Although we currently do not have any borrowings under our $70 million secured credit facility, we currently use it for letters of credit which reduces the amount available for borrowings. The actual amount of credit that is available from time to time under our credit facility is limited to a borrowing base amount that is determined according to, among other things, a percentage of the value of eligible inventory plus a percentage of the value of eligible credit card receivables, as reduced by certain reserve amounts that may be determined at the discretion of the lender. Consequently, it is possible that, should we need to access our credit facility, it may not be available in full. Additionally, our credit facility contains covenants related to capital expenditure levels and minimum inventory book value, and other customary matters. Our failure to comply with the covenants, terms and conditions of our credit facility could cause the facility not to be available to us. Tightening of the credit markets could make it difficult for us to enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. We have incurred substantial financial commitments and fixed costs related to our retail stores that we will not be able to recover if our stores are not successful. The success of an individual store location depends largely on the success of the lifestyle center or shopping mall where the store is located, and may be influenced by changing customer demographic and consumer spending patterns. These factors cannot be predicted with complete accuracy. Because we are required to make long-term financial commitments when leasing retail store locations, and to incur substantial fixed costs for each store's design, leasehold improvements, fixtures and management information systems, it would be costly for us to close a store that does not prove successful. The current economic environment may also adversely affect the ability of developers or landlords to meet commitments to us to pay for certain tenant improvement costs we incur in connection with building out new retail store locations. The testing of our retail stores' long-lived assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows that are inherently uncertain. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic conditions, our operations, and competitive conditions in the industry. These factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of our future performance, may affect the timing and the fair value estimates used in our testing of long-lived assets, which may result in impairment charges. We are subject to potentially adverse outcomes in litigation matters. We are, from time to time, involved in various legal proceedings incidental to the conduct of our business. Actions which may be filed against us include commercial, intellectual property infringement, customer and employment claims, including class action lawsuits alleging that we have violated federal and state wage and hour and other laws. These issues arise primarily in the ordinary course of business but could raise complex factual and legal issues, which are subject to multiple risks and uncertainties 10 Table of Contents and could require significant management time and costs to defend. We believe that our current litigation issues will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, our assessment of current litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts not presently known to us with respect to pending legal actions, or adverse determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact. Moreover, additional litigation that is not currently pending may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our results of operations fluctuate and may be negatively impacted by seasonal influences. Our net sales, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows have fluctuated, and will continue to fluctuate, on a quarterly basis, as well as on an annual basis, as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: •the composition, size and timing of various merchandise offerings; •the timing and number of premium retail store openings and closings; •the timing and number of promotions; •the timing and number of catalog mailings; •the ability to accurately estimate and accrue for merchandise returns and the costs of obsolete inventory disposition; •the timing of merchandise shipping and receiving, including any delays resulting from labor strikes or slowdowns, adverse weather conditions, health epidemics or national security measures; and •shifts in the timing of important holiday selling seasons relative to our fiscal quarters, including Valentine's Day, Easter, Mother's Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas, and the day of the week on which certain important holidays fall. Our results continue to depend materially on sales and profits from the November and December holiday shopping season. In anticipation of traditionally increased holiday sales activity, we incur certain significant incremental expenses, including the hiring of a substantial number of temporary employees to supplement the existing workforce. If, for any reason, we were to realize lower-than-expected sales or profits during the November and December holiday selling season, as we did in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, our financial condition, results of operations, including related gross margins, and cash flows for the entire fiscal year may be adversely affected. We may be unable to manage the complexities of our multi-channel business model, which could harm our results of operations. The complexity of our multi-channel business model requires a level of expertise to successfully manage operations. As we continue to tightly control expenses, we may experience an increase in demands on our managerial, operational and administrative resources, as well as our control environment. If we do not manage these demands, we may not realize the full benefits of our multi-channel business model, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to significant risks associated with our management information systems. We have a number of complex management information systems that are critical to our operations, including systems such as accounting, human resources, inventory purchasing and management, financial planning, direct segment order processing, and retail segment point-of-sale systems. Installing new systems or maintaining and upgrading existing systems carries substantial risk, including potential loss of data or information, cost overruns, implementation delays, disruption of operations, lower 11 Table of Contents customer satisfaction resulting in lost customers, inability to deliver merchandise to our stores or our customers and our potential inability to meet reporting requirements, any of which would harm our business and may adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on key vendors for timely and effective sourcing and delivery of our merchandise. If these vendors are unable to timely fill orders or meet quality standards, we may lose customer sales and our reputation may suffer. We may experience difficulties in obtaining sufficient manufacturing capacity from our vendors. We generally maintain non-exclusive relationships with multiple vendors that manufacture our merchandise. However, we have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could discontinue selling to us at any time. Moreover, a key vendor may become unable to supply our inventory needs due to capacity constraints, financial instability, or other factors beyond our control, or we could decide to stop using a vendor due to quality or other issues. If we were required to change vendors or if a key vendor were unable to supply desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, particularly in light of current global economic conditions, we could experience delays in filling customer orders or delivering inventory to stores until alternative supply arrangements were secured. These delays could result in lost sales and a decline in customer satisfaction. The inability of key vendors to access credit and liquidity, or the insolvency of key vendors, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and lower customer satisfaction. It is also possible that the inability of our vendors to access credit will cause them to extend less favorable terms to us, which could adversely affect our cash flows, margins and financial condition, as well as limit the availability under our credit facility. Additionally, delays by our vendors in supplying our inventory needs could cause us to incur more expensive air freight charges, which may adversely affect our margins. Our reliance on foreign vendors subjects us to uncertainties that could impact our costs to source merchandise, delay or prevent merchandise shipments, or harm our business reputation. We continue to source apparel directly from foreign vendors, particularly those located in Asia, India and Central America. We were the importer of record for approximately 60 percent of our total apparel purchases during fiscal 2010. Irrespective of our direct sourcing from foreign vendors, substantially all of our merchandise, including that which we buy from domestic vendors, is manufactured overseas. This exposes us to risks and uncertainties which could substantially impact our ability to realize any perceived cost savings. These risks include, among other things: •burdens associated with doing business overseas, including the imposition of, or increases in, tariffs or import duties, or import/export controls or regulations, as well as credit assurances we are required to provide to foreign vendors; •declines in the relative value of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies; •volatile fuel, energy and raw material costs, such as recent increases in the cost of cotton; •failure of vendors to adhere to our quality assurance standards, code of conduct and other environmental, labor, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers; •financial instability of a vendor or vendors, including their potential inability to obtain credit to manufacture the merchandise they produce for us; •the potential inability of our vendors to meet our production needs due to raw material or labor shortages; 12 Table of Contents •changing, uncertain or negative economic conditions, political uncertainties or unrest, or epidemics or other health or weather-related events in foreign countries resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries; and •restrictions on the transfer of funds or transportation delays or interruptions. We face substantial competition from other retailers in the women's apparel industry. We face substantial competition from retailers for elements in our merchandise lines, and net sales may decline or grow more slowly if we are unable to differentiate our merchandise and shopping experience from those of other retailers. In addition, the retail apparel industry has experienced significant price deflation over the past several years largely due to the downward pressure on retail prices caused by discount retailers and, more recently, by declining consumer spending, resulting in increased promotional and competitive activity. We expect this price deflation to continue as a result of the recent expiration of quota restrictions on the importing of apparel into the United States from foreign countries that are members of the World Trade Organization. This price deflation may make it more difficult for us to maintain gross margins and to compete with retailers that have greater purchasing power than we have. Consumer concerns about purchasing items via the Internet as well as external or internal infrastructure system failures could negatively impact our e-commerce sales or cause us to incur additional costs. Our business is vulnerable to consumer privacy concerns relating to purchasing items over the Internet, security breaches, and failures of Internet infrastructure and communications systems. If consumer confidence in making purchases over the Internet declines as a result of privacy or other concerns, our e-commerce net sales may be adversely affected. We may be required to incur increased costs to address or remedy any system failures or security breaches or any actual or perceived consumer privacy concerns. We may be unable to efficiently fill customer orders in our direct channel, which could harm customer satisfaction. If we are unable to efficiently process and fill customer orders, customers may cancel or refuse to accept orders, and customer satisfaction could be harmed. We are subject to, among other things: •failures in the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our customer contact centers or our sole distribution center in Mineral Wells, West Virginia, including system failures caused by telecommunications systems providers and order volumes that exceed our present telephone or Internet system capabilities; •delays or failures in the performance of third parties, such as vendors who supply our merchandise, shipping companies and the U.S. postal and customs services, including delays associated with labor disputes, labor union activity, inclement weather, natural disasters, health epidemics and possible acts of terrorism; and •disruptions or slowdowns in our order processing or fulfillment systems resulting from increased security measures implemented by U.S. customs, or from homeland security measures, telephone or Internet down times, system failures, computer viruses, electrical outages, mechanical problems, human error or accidents, fire, natural disasters or comparable events. 13 Table of Contents We have a liberal merchandise return policy and we may experience a greater number of returns than we anticipate. As part of our commitment to superior customer service, we accept returns virtually at any time and for any reason through any channel regardless of initial point of purchase. We make allowances in our financial statements for anticipated merchandise returns based on historical return rates and future expectations. These allowances may be exceeded, however, by actual merchandise returns as a result of many factors, including changes in the merchandise mix, size and fit, actual or perceived quality, differences between the actual product and its presentation in catalogs or on the web site, timeliness of delivery, competitive offerings and consumer preferences or confidence. Any significant increase in merchandise returns that exceed our estimates would result in adjustments to revenue and to cost of sales and may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unable to manage significant increases in the costs associated with the catalog business. We incur substantial costs associated with catalog mailings, including paper, postage, merchandise acquisition and human resource costs associated with catalog layout and design, production and circulation and increased inventories. Significant increases in U.S. Postal Service rates and the cost of telecommunications services, paper and catalog production could significantly increase catalog production costs and result in lower profits for the catalog business. Most of our catalog-related costs are incurred prior to mailing, and as such we are not able to adjust the costs of a particular catalog mailing to reflect the actual subsequent performance of the catalog. Moreover, customer response rates have been volatile in recent years, particularly for mailings to prospective customers. Because the catalog business accounts for a significant portion of total net sales, any performance shortcomings experienced by the catalog business may adversely affect our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our success is dependent upon key personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Our future success depends largely on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other employees. The loss of any of our key employees may adversely affect our business. Furthermore, the current economic conditions or the location of our corporate headquarters in Sandpoint, Idaho, may make it more difficult or costly to attract qualified employees for key positions. We have made significant changes at all levels of our merchandising and creative teams, including both internal promotions and new hires. We believe that we now have the key people in place to enable us to reinvigorate our product assortment and reposition our brand. However, there can be no assurance that these key employees will be successful in executing our initiatives. Our multi-channel business model may expose us to assessments for unpaid taxes. Our multi-channel business model subjects us to state and local taxes in numerous jurisdictions, including state income, franchise, and sales and use tax. We collect these taxes in any jurisdiction in which we have a physical presence. While we believe we have appropriately paid or accrued for all taxes based on our interpretation of applicable law, tax laws are complex and interpretations differ from state to state. In the past, some taxing jurisdictions have assessed additional taxes and penalties on us, asserting either an error in our calculation or an interpretation of the law that differed from our own. It is possible that taxing authorities may make additional assessments in the future. In addition to taxes, penalties and interest, these assessments could cause us to incur legal fees associated with resolving disputes with taxing authorities. Additionally, changes in state and local tax laws, such as temporary changes associated with "tax holidays" and other programs, require us to make continual changes to our collection and reporting systems that may relate to only one taxing jurisdiction. If we fail to update our collection and reporting 14 Table of Contents systems in response to these changes, any over collection or under collection of sales taxes could subject us to interest and penalties, as well as private lawsuits and damage to our reputation. The majority of our cash and cash equivalents are concentrated with one financial institution. We maintain the majority of our cash and cash equivalents with one major financial institution in the United States, in the form of demand deposits, money market accounts and other short-term investments. Deposits in this institution may exceed the amounts of insurance provided on such deposits. With the current financial environment and the instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on our deposits. The stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated and has been and will continue to be significantly affected by, among other factors, quarterly operating results, changes in any earnings estimates publicly announced by us or by analysts, customer response to merchandise offerings, the size of catalog mailings, the timing of retail store openings or of important holiday seasons relative to our fiscal periods, seasonal effects on sales and various factors affecting the economy in general. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility and market prices for the stock of many companies including ours, have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to their operating performance. The reported high and low sale prices of our common stock were $8.75 per share and $2.71 per share, respectively, during fiscal 2010. The fluctuation of the market price of our common stock may have a negative impact on our liquidity and access to capital. In addition, price volatility of our common stock may expose us to stockholder litigation which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our largest stockholders may exert influence over our business regardless of the opposition of other stockholders or the desire of other stockholders to pursue an alternate course of action. Dennis Pence, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, President, CEO and co-founder, may be deemed to beneficially own directly and indirectly, approximately 14.3 percent of our outstanding common stock as of March 22, 2011. Ann Pence, our co-founder, may be deemed to beneficially own, directly and indirectly, approximately 19.6 percent of our outstanding common stock as of March 22, 2011. Either Dennis Pence or Ann Pence acting independently, would have significant influence over, and should they act together, could effectively control the outcome of, any matters submitted to stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of business combinations, and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control of the Company, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders. Provisions in the charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover and discourage, delay or prevent stockholders from replacing or removing current directors or management. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger with or acquisition of us, even where the stockholders may consider it to be favorable. These provisions could also prevent or hinder an attempt by stockholders to replace current directors and include: •providing for a classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms; •prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; •authorizing the Board to designate and issue "blank check" preferred stock; •limiting persons who can call special meetings of the Board of Directors or stockholders; 15 Table of Contents •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at a stockholders meeting. Because the Board of Directors appoints management, any inability to effect a change in the Board of Directors may also result in the entrenchment of management. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. The preceding provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change of control and prevent changes in our management. The day spa concept may not be successful and may be abandoned at any time. We operate the Coldwater Creek ~ The Spa concept in nine locations. To date, our day spas have had a negative impact on our earnings, as we experiment with marketing approaches and gather data regarding the spa business and, in particular, our spa customer. We have no plans to build additional day spas. There is no assurance that the day spa concept will ever be successful. If we were to abandon the day spa concept, we would be required to write off any remaining net capitalized costs and may incur lease termination costs, which may adversely affect results of operations. Additionally, we may incur impairment charges related to our day spas if there were a continued deterioration in the spas' results of operations. We may be unable to successfully grow our premium retail store base, which could result in lower long term revenue growth. We continue to believe that retail expansion will be a key driver for our long term growth. However, due to our recent business performance, we have scaled back our store opening plans. During fiscal 2010, we opened 19 new premium retail stores and closed two, ending the year with 373 premium retail stores. We plan to limit new store openings in fiscal 2011 to five stores to which we have previously committed and to close between eight and 12 stores. However, there can be no assurance that these stores will be opened, will be opened in a timely manner, or, if opened, that these stores will be profitable. The ability to open retail stores depends on our ability to successfully: •identify or secure premium retail space; •negotiate site leases on favorable lease terms for the retail store locations we identify; and •prevent construction delays and cost overruns in connection with the build-out of new stores. Any miscalculations or shortcomings we may make in the planning and control of our retail stores may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, current macroeconomic conditions could result in an inability on the part of real estate developers to obtain retail property in preferred locations. We do not maintain a specific rollout plan beyond a one-year horizon. We continually reassess store rollout plans based on the overall retail environment, the performance of the retail business, our access to working capital and external financing and the availability of suitable store locations. For example, it is possible that in any year we will increase planned store openings, particularly if we experience strong retail sales and have access to the necessary working capital or external financing. Likewise, we would be inclined to further curtail our store rollout if we were to continue to experience 16 Table of Contents weak retail sales or if we did not have adequate working capital or access to financing, or as a part of a cost containment initiative. We may be unable to protect our trademarks from infringement. Our registered trademarks, which include Coldwater Creek®, Coldwater Creek The Spa® and the stylized Coldwater Creek logo, are important to our success. Even though we register and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that our actions will protect us from others infringing upon our trademarks and proprietary rights or seeking to block sales of our products as infringements of their trademarks and proprietary rights. If we cannot adequately protect our marks or prevent infringement of them, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 