ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating Steiner Leisure and its business. These important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. We Depend on Our Agreements with Cruise Lines and Resorts; if These Agreements Terminate, Our Business would be Harmed Our revenues are generated principally from our cruise ship spa operations. The cruise line agreements have specific terms, ranging from one to five years with an average remaining term per ship of approximately three years as of February 23, 2006. As of that date, cruise line agreements that expire within one year covered 15 of the 122 ships served by us. These 15 ships accounted for approximately 5.0% of our 2005 revenues. We cannot assure you that any of these agreements will be renewed after their expiration date or that any renewal will be on similar terms. Also, we cannot assure you that upon renewal, these agreements will not cause reductions in our margins. Typically, the amounts we pay to cruise lines and resorts increase upon our entering into renewals of agreements. In addition, these agreements provide for termination by the cruise lines with limited or no advance notice under certain circumstances, including, among other things, the withdrawal of a vessel from the cruise trade, the sale or lease of a vessel or our failure to achieve specified passenger service standards. As of February 23, 2006, agreements for four ships provided for termination for any reason by the cruise line on 90 days' notice, and, with respect to seven ships, we are operating without written agreements. These 11 ships (which are included in the 15 ships referenced above) accounted for approximately 4.0% of our revenues in the year ended December 31, 2005. Termination of significant cruise line agreements or a series of other cruise line agreements, either upon completion of their terms or prior thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our resort spa agreements also provide for termination with limit ed advance notice under certain circumstances, including a failure to meet specified performance standards. We Depend on the Cruise Industry and Their Risks are Risks to Us Our revenues are generated principally from cruise ship passengers. Therefore, the ability of the cruise industry to attract passengers is critical to our results of operations and financial condition. Ships we serve are primarily marketed to North American consumers. According to CLIA, the passenger volume of cruises marketed primarily to North American consumers increased from approximately 6.9 million passengers in 2000 to approximately 9.7 million passengers in 2005. However, the cruise industry may not continue to grow or may decrease in size in the future. A decrease in passenger volume could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. CLIA has predicted that, for 2006, the increase in North American passengers would be the smallest in five years. The cruise industry is subject to significant risks that could affect our results of operations. Accidents and other incidents involving cruise ships and other unscheduled withdrawals of ships from service, delays in new ship introductions, environmental violations by cruise lines, restricted access of cruise ships to environmentally sensitive regions, hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions and possible increases in fuel costs could materially adversely impact the cruise industry and our results of operations and financial condition. For example, in the summer of 2005, in response to the dislocations caused by Hurricane Katrina in the Gulf Coast of the United States, Carnival Cruise Lines withdrew three ships that we served from service for use in hurricane relief efforts. Hurricane Wilma, in 2005, caused the temporary closing of cruise ports in South Florida and destroyed a cruise pier facility in Cozumel, Mexico. A number of cruise ships have experienced outbreaks of i llnesses that have affected, at times, hundreds of passengers on a ship. In addition, the epidemics affecting global regions could also adversely affect cruise ship travel. In 2005, a piracy attack and passenger disappearances have brought adverse publicity to the cruise industry. The public concern over these incidents, especially if they continue, or other negative publicity about the cruise industry, could adversely affect the demand for cruises and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 18 In addition, industry analysts have expressed concern regarding potential over-capacity of ships operated by the cruise lines. Such overcapacity could adversely affect the cruise industry and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For a period preceding 2004, several cruise lines discounted their fares in order to increase their passenger counts. Passengers who are cruising solely due to discounted fares may reflect their cost consciousness by not spending on discretionary items, such as our services and products. Severe weather conditions, both at sea and at ports of embarkation, also could adversely affect the cruise industry. The cruise industry also relies to a significant extent on airlines to transport passengers to ports of embarkation. Changes in airline service to cruise debarkation locations could adversely affect us. In addition, any strikes or other disruptions of airline service, including of the type that followed the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and those that could follow other terrorist attacks or armed hostilities, could adversely affect the ability of cruise passengers to reach their ports of embarkation, or could cause cancellation of cruises. Demand for cruises is also likely to be increasingly dependent on the underlying economic strength of the countries from which cruise lines source their passengers. Cruise lines compete for consumer disposable leisure time dollars with other vacation alternatives such as resort hotels and sightseeing vacations. Economic changes that reduce disposable income or consumer confidence in the countries from which our cruise line customers source their passengers may affect demand for vacations, including cruise vacations, which are discretionary purchases. A majority of the cruise passengers we serve reside in North America. An economic downturn in North America, such as was experienced a few years ago, as well as future periods of general economic recession, could have a material adverse effect on the cruise industry and could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Cruise ships have increasingly had itineraries which provide for the ships to be in port during cruises. When cruise ships are in port, our revenues are adversely affected. The Aftermath of the September 11, 2001 and Other Hostilities May Adversely Impact Our Financial Results and Growth The cruise lines we serve operate in waters and call on ports throughout the world, including geographic regions that from time to time experience political and civil unrest and armed hostilities. In 2005, a cruise ship which we serve experienced an attempted piracy attack off the coast of Africa. We and the leisure industry in general were adversely affected in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington and the hostilities in Iraq. In addition, our resort spa operations in Asia have been adversely affected by the terrorist bombings in Bali, Indonesia in October 2002 and October 2005, and the hotel bombing in Jakarta, Indonesia in August 2003. The threat of additional attacks and of armed hostilities internationally or locally may cause prospective travelers to cancel their plans, including plans for cruise or resort vacations. Weaker cruise industry and resort performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Depend on Certain Cruise Lines, and the Loss of a Significant Cruise Line Customer Could Harm Us As a result of the consolidation of the cruise industry, the number of independent cruise lines has decreased in the past few years. In the second half of 2000, Premier and Commodore Cruise Lines ceased to operate. In September 2001, Renaissance Cruise Line ceased its operations. In the last few years, the parent company of Carnival Cruise Line has acquired a number of other cruise lines and further consolidation of the cruise industry may occur. A small number of cruise lines, all of whom currently are our customers, dominate the cruise industry. Revenues from passengers of each of the following cruise companies accounted for more than ten percent of our revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively: Carnival (including Carnival, Costa, Cunard, Holland America, P&O European Ferries, Princess, Seabourn and Windstar cruise lines): 34.9%, 32.4% and 32.3% and Royal Caribbean (including Royal Caribbean and Celebrity cruise lines): 22.7%, 23.9% and 23.7%. These co mpanies also accounted for 96 of the 122 ships served by us as of February 23, 2006. If we cease to serve one of these cruise companies, or a substantial number of ships operated by a cruise company, it could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 We are Required to Make Minimum Payments Under Our Agreements and Face Increasing Payments to Cruise Lines and Resort Operators We are obligated to make minimum payments to certain cruise lines and resort operators regardless of the amount of revenues we receive from customers. We may also be required to make such minimum annual payments under any future agreements we enter into. Accordingly, we could be obligated to pay more in minimum payments than the amount we collect from customers. As of December 31, 2005, these payments are required by cruise line agreements covering a total of 24 ships served by us. As of December 31, 2005, we guaranteed total minimum payments to cruise lines (excluding payments based on minimum passenger per diems applicable to certain ships served by us) of approximately: $31.3 million in 2006, $31.9 million in 2007, $33.1 million in 2008, $24.8 million in 2009 and $12.8 million in 2010. These amounts could increase under new or renewed agreements. Some of the minimum annual payments are calculated based upon minimum passenger per diems for passengers actually embarked on each cruise of the respective vessel. These payments could significantly increase the minimum payments above. In general, Steiner Leisure has experienced increases in required payments to cruise lines upon renewing, or entering into, new agreements with cruise lines. As of December 31, 2005, we guaranteed total minimum payments to resorts of approximately: $3.4 million in 2006, $2.7 million in 2007, $2.7 million in 2008, $2.4 million in 2009, $1.8 million in 2010 and $5.1 million thereafter. These amounts could increase under new or renewed agreements. We Depend on the Continued Viability of the Ships and Resorts We Serve Our revenues from our shipboard guests and guests at our resort spas can only be generated if the ships and resorts we serve continue to operate. Premier, Commodore and Renaissance Cruise Lines ceased operating in 2000 and 2001. The Aladdin Resort and Casino, where we operate a luxury spa, filed for protection under the federal bankruptcy laws several years ago, although it has since been sold to a new owner and continues to operate. However, we cannot assure you of the continued viability of any of the resorts (including our ability to protect our investments in build-outs of resort spa facilities) or cruise lines that we serve. To the extent that cruise lines or resorts that we serve, or could potentially serve in the future, cease to operate, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Delays in New Ship Introductions Could Slow our Growth Our growth depends, in part, on our serving new cruise ships brought into service. A number of cruise lines we serve have experienced in the past, and could experience in the future, delays in bringing new ships into service. In addition, there is a limited number of shipyards in the world capable of constructing large cruise ships in accordance with the standards of major cruise lines. This may also contribute to delays in new ship construction. Such delays could slow our growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Depend on Our Key Officers and Qualified Employees Our continued success depends to a significant extent on our senior executive officers, including Clive E. Warshaw, Chairman of the Board, Leonard I. Fluxman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Glenn J. Fusfield, Chief Operating Officer and Stephen Lazarus, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of services of any of these persons or other key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have key person life insurance policies with respect to Messrs. Fluxman and Fusfield and one other executive officer, but not Mr. Warshaw or any of our other executive officers. 20 Our continued success is also dependent on our ability to recruit and retain personnel qualified to perform our spa services. Shipboard employees typically are employed pursuant to agreements with terms of eight months. Our resort spa and day spa employees are generally employed on an at-will basis. Other providers of shipboard spa services have been competing with us for shipboard personnel. We also compete with spas and other employers for resort spa and day spa personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract a sufficient number of applicants possessing the requisite training and skills necessary for our business. Our inability to attract a sufficient number of qualified applicants to provide our services and products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the immigration approval process in the United States proceeds at a slower pace than previously had been the case. Since many of our shipboard employees are not U.S. citizens, this slower pace could adversely affect our ability to meet our shipboard staffing needs on a timely basis. In addition, the various jurisdictions where we operate our spas have their own licensing or similar requirements applicable to our employees which could affect our ability to open new spas on a timely basis or adequately staff existing spas. The two ships we serve that are U.S. based also are subject to U.S. labor law requirements that can result in delays in obtaining adequate staffing. We Depend on a Single Product Manufacturer A significant portion of the ingredients and other materials for our Elemis and La Therapie beauty products is produced by a single manufacturer with whom we formerly had a written agreement. We are currently working with this manufacturer without an agreement and are continuing to purchase its products. However, until any new agreement is finalized, this manufacturer is not contractually obligated to continue its relationship with us. If this manufacturer ceased producing for us, for any reason, these ingredients and other materials for our products, the transition to other manufacturers could result in significant production delays. Any significant delay or disruption in the supply of our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales. Possible Adverse Changes in U.S. or Foreign Tax Laws Could Increase our Taxes Background Steiner Leisure is a Bahamas international business company ("IBC") that, directly or indirectly, owns, among other entities: Steiner Transocean Limited, our principal subsidiary and a Bahamas IBC that conducts our shipboard operations, and Steiner Management Services LLC, a Florida limited liability company that performs administrative services in connection with our operations in exchange for fees from Steiner Transocean and other subsidiaries ("Management Services"). Steiner Leisure also owns, directly or indirectly, the shares of additional subsidiaries in the United States, the United Kingdom and other taxable jurisdictions as well as subsidiaries in jurisdictions in which the subsidiaries are not subject to tax. Steiner Leisure and its Bahamas IBC subsidiaries are not subject to Bahamas or other income tax, except as set forth below. Steiner Leisure's United States subsidiaries are subject to U.S. income tax as a consolidated group at regular corporate rates up to 35%. Generally, any dividends paid by our United States holding company to its parent, Steiner Leisure, would be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax. Steiner Leisure believes that none of its other income will be effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and, accordingly, that our remaining income will not be subject to United States federal income tax. 21 Steiner Transocean is a Bahamas IBC and is not subject to Bahamas tax. A foreign corporation generally is subject to United States federal corporate income tax at a rate of up to 35% on its United States source income and on certain limited types of its foreign-source income that is effectively connected to a trade or business it conducts in the United States. A foreign corporation can also be subject to a branch profits tax of 30% imposed on its after tax earnings that are so effectively connected. We believe that a large percentage of our shipboard services income will be foreign-source income, not effectively connected to a business it conducts in the United States. This belief is based on the following factors: almost all of Steiner Transocean's shipboard spa and salon services are being performed outside the United States and its possessions and their respective territorial waters; passage of title and transfer of ownership of almost all beauty products sold by Steiner Transocean takes place outside the United States and there is no U.S. office which materially participates in the sale; and the activities performed on behalf of Steiner Transocean in the United States are not a material factor in generating income for Steiner Transocean. The Risks to Us However, all or a portion of Steiner Transocean's income could be subject to United States federal income tax at a rate of up to 35%: to the extent the first two activities described above were considered by the United States Internal Revenue Service to occur in the United States, its possessions or territorial waters; if regulation or legislation is enacted that changes the way the IRS views the taxability of our operations; or if the activities performed on behalf of Steiner Transocean in the United States were considered to be a material factor in generating Steiner Transocean's income. If Steiner Transocean is subject to United States federal income tax at a rate of up to 35% on its United States source income and on certain of its foreign-source income that is effectively connected to a business it conducts in the United States, it would also be subject to a branch profits tax of 30% imposed on its after-tax earnings withdrawn, or considered to be withdrawn, from its United States business. For similar reasons, certain non-U.S. jurisdictions may also assert that Steiner Transocean's income is subject to their income tax. Management Services receives payments from Steiner Transocean and other subsidiaries of Steiner Leisure in return for certain administrative services it provides to Steiner Transocean and those subsidiaries. The IRS may assert that transactions between Management Services and Steiner Transocean (and between our other direct and indirect subsidiaries) do not contain arm's length terms. In that event, income or deductions could be reallocated among the subsidiaries in a manner that could increase the taxable income of Management Services. This reallocation also could result in the imposition of interest and penalties. Management Services and other U.S. subsidiaries of ours also are subject to U.S. state and local income, franchise and other taxes. Some of our United Kingdom and United States subsidiaries provide goods and/or services to Steiner Leisure and certain of our other subsidiaries. The United Kingdom Inland Revenue, or United States Internal Revenue Service authorities, may assert that some or all of these transactions do not contain arm's length terms. In that event, income or deductions could be reallocated among our subsidiaries in a manner that could increase the U.K. or U.S. tax on us. This reallocation also could result in the imposition of interest and penalties. We cannot assure you that the tax laws on which we have relied to minimize our income taxes will remain unchanged in the future. In September 2005, the IRS proposed regulations that, if adopted, could possibly subject a portion of our shipboard income to U.S. federal income tax. We cannot assure you as to the extent to which our shipboard income would be subject to U.S. federal income tax thereunder if regulations such as these are adopted. In 2005, Steiner Leisure paid tax at an aggregate rate of 7.6% on its income. Our land-based operations have significantly increased since 2001, and are expected in the future to continue to increase (including upon a closing of the acquisition of UCMT), which would result in an increase in the amount of our non-shipboard income. This could result in a significant increase in the amount of our income that is subject to tax. In addition, such amount of income subject to tax will continue to increase to the extent our land-based income continues to increase relative to our shipboard income. 22 We Face Competition on Ships and on Land We compete with passenger activity alternatives on cruise ships and with competing providers of services and products similar to ours seeking agreements with cruise lines. Gambling casinos, bars and a variety of shops are found on almost all of the ships served by us. In addition, ships dock in ports which provide opportunities for additional shopping as well as other activities that compete with us for passenger attention and dollars. Cruise ships also typically offer swimming pools and other recreational facilities and activities, as well as musical and other entertainment, all without additional charge to the passengers. In 2003 and 2004, one cruise line we serve provided shipboard spa services and products with its own personnel on two of its ships and another cruise line we serve has engaged the services of another third party spa provider for one of its new ships. Additional cruise lines could take similar actions in the future. In addition, there are several other entities of fering services in the cruise industry similar to those provided by us and we cannot assure you that we will be able to serve new cruise ships that come into service and that are not covered by our cruise line agreements. Many of the resorts that we serve or may serve in the future offer recreational entertainment facilities and activities similar to those offered on cruise ships, often without additional charge to guests. A number of these resorts also offer casino gambling. Our day spas compete with other day spa chains and individual day spas which have operations in the vicinities of our day spas, as well as with other beauty, relaxation or other therapeutic alternatives. These include, with respect to hair and manicure and pedicure services, large, well-known national chains and independently owned salons that offer these services at prices significantly lower than those charged by us. We believe, however, that the prices charged by us are appropriate for the quality of the experience we provide to our customers. In addition, Steiner Leisure is relatively new to the resort and day spa industries and our spas compete with spas and beauty salons owned or operated by companies that have offered land-based spa services longer than we have and which may enjoy greater name recognition with customers and prospective customers than the resort and day spas operated by us. In addition, a number of these spa operators may have greater resources than we do. The post-secondary education market is highly competitive. Our post secondary massage and beauty schools compete with providers of similar instruction in the states in which they are located and elsewhere in the United States, including many providers with greater resources than ours. Our schools face competition from, among others, traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other proprietary schools, including those that offer online learning programs. Some public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to proprietary schools such as ours. Lower tuition by our competitors could limit our ability to increase student enrollment if we increase our tuition charges. A number of our competitors' schools are now offering or contemplating offering programs similar to ours. This will increase t he competition for students. A number of these other schools have greater resources than we do. Our product sales compete with a variety of other brands, including those of manufacturers with greater resources than ours, and products with greater name recognition than our products, including large entities with greater resources than ours. If we are unable to compete effectively in one or more areas of our operations, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. Risks of Non-U.S. Operations A total of ten of our resort spa operations are located in Indonesia. The Indonesian island of Bali, where we have a number of resort spas, was the site of terrorist attacks in October 2002 and October 2005. Jakarta, the Indonesian capital, was the site of a hotel bombing in August 2003. Those attacks adversely affected our revenues in that region from 2002 through 2005 and revenues are expected to continue to be adversely affected at least through 2006. In addition, countries where we currently or may in the future operate spas have in the past, and may in the future experience adverse developments in the political and economic environment, varying governmental regulations, foreign currency fluctuations and potential adverse tax consequences. Such adverse developments, among other things, could prevent us from adequately supervising these operations, and any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain locations in Asia where we operate our spas lack a local workforce with adequate training. Bringing in trained spa employees from elsewhere is sometimes difficult due to applicable immigration rules. 23 Severe Weather Can Disrupt Our Operations We also operate spas in the Caribbean, the Pacific, Mexico and Asia and other locations that are subject to severe weather conditions, including hurricanes and other destructive storms. In the fourth quarter of 2002, Guam, where we operate several resort spas, was hit by a significant typhoon. That typhoon resulted in damage to our properties and the closing of the resorts in which they were located, causing us to suffer a loss of revenues. As a result of the powerful Tsunami that struck Asia in December 2004, most of our operations in the Maldive Islands were damaged. Two of our spas there continue to be closed, and our operation of a third spa was terminated by the resort after being closed for a year. We cannot assure you as to when any of these closed operations will re-open, if at all. Similar storms or other destructive natural occurrences affecting the areas in which we, or the cruise lines we serve, have operations, including Florida, the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico, c ould materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risk of Early Termination of Resort Spa Agreements In connection with leases for our resort spas, we attempt to obtain terms that protect us in the event that the resort operator's lender forecloses and takes over the property in question. However, we cannot always obtain such protective "non-disturbance" terms. In the event that the lender to a resort spa operator under an agreement where no such non-disturbance term is included forecloses on that property, our agreement could be terminated prior to the expiration of its term. In such case, in addition to the loss of income from that spa, we could lose the value of the investment we made to build out that facility. The Success of Our Resort Spas Depends on the Resort Hotel Industry We operate spas at 56 resorts located in 14 countries and territories. We also license our Mandara mark to an operator of a total of 14 resort spas in Asia and license our Greenhouse mark to the operator of a day spa in New York City and a destination spa near Dallas, Texas. We are dependent on the resort hotel industry for the success of our resort spas. To the extent that consumers do not choose to stay at resorts where we operate spas, as to which we have no control, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The resort hotel industry is subject to risks that are, in many ways, similar to those of the cruise industry, including the following risks: changes in the national, regional and local economic climate (including major national or international events such as the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the October 2002 and October 2005 Bali terrorist attacks, the August 2003 Jakarta terrorist attack and the hostilities in Iraq), local conditions, including an oversupply of hotel properties, or a reduction in demand for hotel rooms; the attractiveness of the hotels to consumers and competition from comparable hotels in terms of, among other things, accessibility and cost; the outbreak of illnesses, such as Bird Flu, SARS, Asian flu or the perceived risk of such outbreaks, in locations where we operate resort spas; weather conditions, including the destructive Tsunami in December 2004 that severely damaged areas in several Asian countries and damaged most of our facilities in the Maldive Islands; the performance of the employees at the resorts we serve; possible labor unrest or changes in economics based on collective bargaining activities; certain of our non-management employees in Mexico are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and we are in negotiations with respect to our non-management employees in the Bahamas becoming subject to a collective bargaining agreement; changes in room rates at the resorts we serve; the viability of resorts we serve; 24 reductions in resort occupancy resulting from major renovations, damage or other causes (the Aladdin Resort is undergoing a major renovation which could adversely affect the financial position and results of operations of our spa there during the time such renovation takes place); the maintenance of the resorts we serve and changes in popular travel patterns; acquisition by hotel chains of spa service providers to create captive "in-house" brands and development by hotel chains of their own proprietary spa service providers, reducing the opportunity for third party spa providers; and elimination of, or reduction in, airline service to locations where we operate resort spas, which would result in fewer guests at those resorts; for example, in 2005, one airline ceased flights from Japan to Saipan (where we operate three spas) significantly reducing the number of visitors to that island. To the extent that there are adverse changes in the foregoing conditions, this could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions. We May Have Insufficient Liquidity to Take Advantage of Some Available Opportunities Among other parts of our business plan, we consider various land-based opportunities. We have been required in connection with a number of our resort spa agreements to incur the cost of the build-out of the spa facilities. We may also seek acquisitions or other opportunities to grow our business which would require us to expend funds, possibly significant amounts, such as our proposed acquisition of the UCMT massage and beauty schools. We are subject to restrictions on capital expenditures under our credit facility. Other limitations on capital expenditures, or on other operational matters, could apply in the future. Additionally, our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to enable us to build-out the facilities at resorts where we otherwise would like to operate spas. Therefore, we may not be able to take advantage of all otherwise favorable opportunities to operate resort spas or effectuate other potentially favorable transactions. Generally, as lo ng as we have certain bank agreements outstanding, if we exceed our currently anticipated capital expenditures or our cash flow from operations is less than anticipated, we would need to seek concessions from our lender and/or additional equity or debt financing to fund our business plan. Among other things that could cause our cash flow to be less than anticipated is the reduction in leisure travel that could result from hostilities in Iraq or other areas and/or the continued perpetration or threats of terrorist attacks. Additional financing, including a new credit facility, may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Risks Relating to Build-out of Our Spas In connection with new resort spas that we may seek to operate in the future, we may wish, or be required, to build-out the spa's facilities at our own expense. In addition, we have been required to expend funds on the build-outs of certain of our shipboard spas. The cost to build out resort spa facilities has ranged from relatively small amounts (for small spas in the Pacific and Asia) to approximately $13.7 million. Any spas we might wish to operate in the future could require build-out expenditures within the above range or above it, and we cannot assure you that we would have available sufficient resources to take advantage of any such opportunity. Such build-outs involve risks to us, including as follows: The commencement of the build-outs generally cannot begin until the venue owner has completed its own construction site around the premises of the proposed spa. We have no control over that process. The build-out process, as well as weather-related postponements and other factors affecting construction projects generally, could delay our spas' opening date and result in a loss of revenue to us. A number of our resort spa agreements provide that landlords may terminate the lease provided that we receive certain compensation with respect to our build-out expenses and earnings lost as a result of such termination. While we always attempt to negotiate the best deal we can in this regard, we can not assure you that any amounts we would receive in connection with such termination accurately reflects the economic value of the assets that we would be leaving behind as a result of such termination. In addition, under certain circumstances, in the event of termination of an agreement with a resort spa, we would receive no compensation with respect to build-out expenditures that we have incurred. 25 If the resort owner files for bankruptcy or otherwise has financial problems prior to opening of the spa, the spa may never commence operations. We may lose substantial funds expended on the build-out to that point if we lose our rights to build out and/or operate that spa as a result of a bankruptcy or similar proceeding. For example, the operator of the Aladdin Resort and Casino, where we lease facilities and operate a luxury spa, filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. While that resort has been sold to a new owner and we continue to conduct our operations there, we cannot assure you that our operations at other facilities we operate will not be subject to bankruptcy proceedings or other financial problems. Such proceedings or other problems at a resort could have a material adverse affect on our operations at that resort. Risks Relating to Our Schools Financial Risks In 2004 and the first half of 2005, the financial results of our schools were less than we had anticipated. While we believe that the officers who manage our schools have the qualifications to successfully lead that division, we cannot assure you that those officers, in fact, will be able to successfully manage our school operations or increase their profitability. In addition, in January 2004, we terminated operations at our campus in Winchester, Virginia and we cannot assure you that we will continue to operate all of the remaining campuses for any specified period of time. Risks Related to UCMT Acquisition In January 2006, we entered into an agreement to purchase the assets of UCMT. While UCMT offers similar massage programs to those offered by the post-secondary massage and beauty schools that we currently operate, we cannot assure you that upon the closing of this acquisition we would be able to successfully integrate the new schools into our existing schools business or otherwise make the acquisition accretive. Any failure to integrate those schools could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve any cost savings or other benefits of operating a larger group of schools and could become a distraction to our management. Risks Related to Quality of Training Prospective employers of graduates of our schools require new employees to have training reflecting the latest methods for performing the services involved. If our training is unable to keep pace with the constantly changing demands of consumers in the spa and beauty services areas, this could adversely affect the ability of our students to find employment after completing their training with us which could, in turn, have an adverse affect on our ability to attract students. While graduates of our schools have the training to be employed in our spa operations, to date, only a limited number of these graduates have become employed by us. Risks Related to Student Enrollment and Retention and Facility Retention In order for our schools to be successful, we must enroll and retain students at rates that would support such success. While we use a variety of means to market our schools to prospective students, among other things, the competition for students among schools similar to ours and other types of post-secondary schools, is intense. The failure to maintain student enrollment and retention rates at sufficient levels could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of our schools. The success of our schools also depends on our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of faculty members with appropriate qualifications and experience, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain such faculty when, and in the locations, needed. We offer payment plans to help students pay that portion of their education expense not covered by financial aid programs, including plans under which these balances are unsecured and not guaranteed. Losses related to unpaid student balances could have a material adverse affect on results of operations and financial condition of our schools. 26 Risks Related to Weather Most of our existing schools are located in Florida, which experienced severe hurricanes in 2004 and 2005. Those hurricanes caused businesses in that state, including some of our schools, to close for varying periods of time. To the extent that this type, or any other type, of severe weather occurs again in Florida or in other locations where we operate our schools, some of our schools could be required to close for periods of time which could, particularly if such severe weather results in damage to our facilities, materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of our schools. Prolonged closings of our schools due to adverse weather (or otherwise) also could adversely affect our ability to successfully market our schools to prospective students. Government Regulation Could Adversely Affect Us We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations with respect to our various operations. In addition to the requirements and limitations that these regulations currently impose on us, these regulations are subject to change that could further limit our activities. Additional regulations could also be adopted in the future that could add additional requirements and/or limitations with respect to our business. Products Our advertising and product labeling practices in the United States are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission and the Food and Drug Administration, as well as various other federal, state and local regulatory authorities. The contents of our products that are sold in the United States are subject to regulation in the United States. We are subject to similar regulation under the laws of the United Kingdom and certain European Union laws. Federal, state and local regulations in the United States and non-United States jurisdictions, including increasing regulation by the European Union, designed to protect consumers or the environment, could increase the cost of, or otherwise materially adversely affect, the advertising, manufacturing and packaging of our products. Resort Spas and Day Spas Our resort spas and day spas operations are subject to applicable regulations in the locations where such operations are conducted. These regulations could adversely affect our ability to sell, or could increase the cost of, our services and products. Among other things, local immigration laws could impede our ability to obtain work permits needed for employees at our resort spas and day spas. Schools We derive a large portion of our massage and beauty school revenue from students participating in federal student financial aid programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act (the "HEA") administered by the Department of Education (the "DOE"). For these programs to be available to students, our schools must obtain and maintain authorization by the appropriate state agencies, accreditations by an accrediting agency authorized by the DOE and certification by the DOE. As a result, our schools are subject to extensive regulation by these agencies. These regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, payment of refunds to students who withdraw, acquisitions or openings of additional schools, addition of new educational programs, and changes in our corporate structure and ownership. The agencies that regulate our operations periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. If one of our schools were to violate any of these regulatory requirements, we could suffer a financial penalty. A regulatory authority also could place limitations on our schools' operations or terminate our schools' ability to grant degrees and certificates or other eligibility to receive federal student financial aid funds on behalf of their students. A significant portion of our students rely on federal student financial aid funds to finance their education. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these requirements will be applied, or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. Even if we are complying with applicable governmental and accrediting body requirements, increased regulatory scrutiny or adverse publicity arising from allegations of non-compliance may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and adversely affect the financial results of our schools. 27 To participate in federal student financial aid programs under the HEA, schools must meet general standards of financial responsibility and either meet specific numeric measures of financial responsibility prescribed by DOE or post a letter of credit in favor of the DOE and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in the federal student financial aid programs. While currently none of our schools is required to post such letter of credit or accept such other conditions, if our schools fail to satisfy the applicable standards in the future, any required letter of credit, if obtainable, and any limitations on our participation in federal student financial aid programs, could adversely affect the results of operations of our schools. Our schools could loose their eligibility to participate in some or all of the federal student financial aid programs if defaults by students on their program loans equal or exceed specified rates or if our schools derive more than 90% of their revenue from federal student financial aid programs in any fiscal year. Such excessive default rates or the 90% derivation of revenues from these programs could have a material adverse effect on our schools' population and revenue. The operation of our schools is required to be authorized by applicable agencies of the states in which they are located. State authorization and accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by the DOE also are required for an institution to participate in the federal student financial aid programs. Requirements for state authorization and accreditation vary substantially among the applicable agencies. Loss of state authorization or accreditation by any of our campuses could have a material adverse affect on our student population and revenue. Schools participating in Title IV Programs may not provide any commission, bonus or any other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollment or financial aid to any person or entity, engaging in any student recruitment or admission activity or making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds. The law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances. If the DOE determined that our compensation practices violated these standards, the DOE could subject our schools to monetary fines, penalties or sanctions. Any substantial fine, penalty or other sanction against our schools could have a material adverse affect on the schools' financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Because our schools operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to audits, compliance reviews, inquiries, complaints, investigations, claims of non-compliance and lawsuits of federal and state governmental agencies, present and former students and employees and other third parties who may allege violations of any regulatory requirements applicable to our schools. If the results of any such claims are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, operational limitations, loss of federal funding or other sanctions. Even if we adequately address issues raised by any such claims or actions, we may have to devote significant financial and management resources to do so. Recently, the operations of a number of companies in the for-profit post-secondary education industry were subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. In some case, allegations of wrongdoing resulted in investigations by federal and state law enforcement agencies and others. These allegations, reviews and investigations of other companies and the accompanying adverse publicity could have a negative impact on the post-secondary education industry as a whole, and our schools' business. Our proposed acquisition of UCMT, and any other proposed acquisition of an institution that participates in federal student financial aid programs, requires that we seek approval from the DOE and applicable state agencies and accrediting authorities. A change of ownership or control of an institution under the DOE standards can result in the temporary suspension of the institution's participation in the federal student financial aid programs unless a timely and materially complete application for recertification is filed with the DOE and the DOE issues a temporary certification document. If we are unable to obtain approvals from state agencies, accrediting agencies or DOE for any institution we propose to acquire, the acquired schools would not be permitted to participate in federal student financial aid programs. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on the schools to be acquired and on our schools in general. While all of our schools are currently eligible for our students to receive federal funding, including loan funds, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such eligibility for our schools at all times in the future. 28 The financial aid and assistance programs, in which most of our schools students participate, are subject to political and budgetary considerations. There is no assurance that such funding will be maintained at current levels. Administration of these programs is periodically reviewed by various regulatory agencies. The failure by our schools to comply with applicable federal, state or accrediting agency requirements could result in the limitation, suspension or termination of the ability to participate in Title IV Programs or the loss of the state licensure or accreditation. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, Title IV Program funds would have a material adverse effect on Steiner Leisure's revenues and cash flows because the schools' student enrollment would likely decline as a result of our students' inability to finance their education without the availability of Title IV Program funds. Increased regulation in recent years related to the operations of our schools has required us to increase the amount of funds we spend on compliance-related matters. While all our schools currently are eligible for students to receive federal funding, including loan funds, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such eligibility for our schools at all times in the future. Product Liability and Other Potential Claims Could Adversely Affect Us The nature and use of our products and services could give rise to product liability or other claims if a customer were injured while receiving one of our services or suffered adverse reactions following the use of our products. Adverse reactions could be caused by various factors beyond our control, including hypoallergenic sensitivity and the possibility of malicious tampering with our products. If any of these events occurred, we could incur substantial litigation expense, receive adverse publicity and suffer a loss of sales, and, therefore, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As the types of services we offer increase, such as the additions of acupuncture and teeth whitening, the potential for claims against us could also increase. Our Credit Facility Financing Could Restrict Our Activities We have a credit facility with a bank that provides for a revolving credit facility of up to $20 million. That agreement contains certain affirmative, negative and financial covenants that could restrict us from taking actions which our management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of Steiner Leisure and its shareholders. These covenants remain applicable even when there are no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants could be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the credit facility. Upon the occurrence of such a default, the outstanding principal, together with all accrued interest under our credit facility will, at the option of our lenders, become immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay amounts that become due under the credit facility, our lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as security under our credit facility. If the indebtedness under the credit facility were to be accelerated, our lender could take actions that could materially adversely affect our business and operations. Our Credit Facility Expires in 2007 Our revolving credit facility expires in July 2007. While we currently have cash available for working capital and other purposes, opportunities to grow our business or needs for expenditures may arise in the future that would require us to obtain financing. We cannot assure you that any such financing would be available on terms as favorable as under our existing credit facility, or at all. Our inability to obtain financing on such favorable terms, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow or operate our business. Need for Growth in Product Sales and Risk Relating to Retail Rollouts In order for us to grow, we need to find additional sources of revenue. One possible area of growth for Steiner Leisure is additional emphasis on growth in sales of our products, particularly our "Elemis" and "La Therapie" lines. While we believe that our Elemis luxury day spas in Coral Gables, Florida and London, England will assist us in our efforts to increase our Elemis and La Therapie products sales, we cannot assure you that these spas will have significant positive effects on such distribution efforts because, among other things, those spas are the only day spas in their respective countries operated under the Elemis name, or that we otherwise will be able to grow our product sales. 29 Recently in the British Isles and the United States we have commenced selling our Elemis products in dedicated areas of well-known retail establishments. From time to time in the future we may announce additional agreements with retail venues to operate such dedicated Elemis sales areas. Those agreements may be in a non-written form and may otherwise not be formal commitments. Accordingly, even if we announce our intention to commence retail product sale operations at certain venues, we cannot provide assurance that, in fact, such operations will be effectuated in all instances. Need to Expand our Services The demands of consumers with respect to spa services and products continue to evolve. In order for us to maintain our base of customers and expand our spa business, we must continue to expand our menu of services to keep up with these demands, as we have done recently by offering teeth whitening, acupuncture and microdermabrasion services. Our ability to provide certain additional services depends on our ability to find appropriate third parties with whom to work in connection with these services and, in certain cases, could be dependent on our ability to fund substantial costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find such appropriate third parties or be able to fund such costs. In addition, there is a trend to add services at spa facilities similar to those traditionally provided in medical facilities, including services relating to skin care. These services, as well as other services that consumers may demand, may enhance our exposure to liability for injuries to our customers. We are not a United States Company and, as a Result, there are Special Risks Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association, which are similar to the articles of incorporation and bylaws of a United States corporation, and the International Business Companies Act, 2000 of The Bahamas (the "IBC Act"). There are very few reported judicial cases under the IBC Act. Accordingly, the rights and remedies of our public shareholders in the face of actions by our management, directors or shareholders are less clearly established than would be the case with a company incorporated in a United States jurisdiction or in another country, such as the United Kingdom. Certain of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. A substantial portion of our assets and the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons. It also may not be possible to enforce against them or Steiner Leisure judgments obtained in United States courts based on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. In the opinion of Harry B. Sands, Lobosky and Company, our Bahamas counsel: it is unlikely that Bahamian courts would entertain original actions against Bahamas companies or their directors or officers based solely upon United States federal securities laws; judgments predicated upon any civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws are not directly enforceable in The Bahamas; rather, a lawsuit must be brought in The Bahamas on any such judgment; and in general, a judgment obtained after due trial by a court of competent jurisdiction, which is final and conclusive as to the issues in contention, is actionable in Bahamian courts and is impeachable only upon the grounds of fraud, public policy and natural justice. Currency Risk Because we pay for the administration of recruitment and training of our shipboard personnel and the manufacturing of raw material and of our products in English Pounds Sterling and Euros, the weakness of the U.S. Dollar against those currencies could adversely affect our results of operations. The U.S. dollar has been, and could continue to be, weak against the U.K. Pound Sterling and the Euro and this weakness could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 30 Anti-takeover Provisions Limit Shareholders' Ability to Effect a Change in Management or Control Our Articles of Association include certain provisions which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a future takeover or change in control of Steiner Leisure that shareholders may consider to be in their best interests. Among other things, our Articles provide for a classified Board of Directors serving staggered terms of three years, super majority voting requirements with respect to certain significant transactions and restrictions on certain transactions with holders of 15% or more of the voting shares of Steiner Leisure. We have an authorized class of 10,000,000 Preferred Shares that may be issued in one or more series by the Board of Directors without further action by the shareholders on such terms and with such rights, preferences and designations as the Board of Directors may determine. Furthermore, our Amended and Restated 1996 Share Option and Incentive Plan and our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and certain of our employment agreements provide certain rights to plan participants and our officers in the event of a change in control of Steiner Leisure. In addition, certain of our cruise line and resort agreements provide the other parties with rights of termination in the event of certain changes in control of Steiner Leisure. Our Stock Price Has Fluctuated and Could Fluctuate Significantly Since our common shares have commenced being publicly traded, the market price of our shares has fluctuated over a wide range and may continue to do so in the future. The market price of our common shares could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including, among other things: the depth and liquidity of the trading market for our common shares; quarterly variations in our actual or anticipated operating results; changes in recommendations or estimates of our earnings or cruise industry earnings by analysts; market conditions in the travel, leisure and cruise industries; announcements or activities by our competitors; the market price of shares of our cruise line or resort customers; general economic or market conditions. Any such event could result in a material decline in the price of our common shares. 31 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 