Risk Factors.” We disclaim any duty to update any forward-looking statements. Introduction Ingram Micro, a Fortune 100 company, is the largest global information technology (“IT”) wholesale distributor by net sales, providing sales, marketing, and logistics services for the IT industry worldwide. Ingram Micro provides a vital link in the IT supply chain by generating demand and developing markets for our technology partners. While we remain focused on continuing to build our core IT distribution business, we also are developing an increasing presence in adjacent technology product categories, such as consumer electronics (“CE”), automatic identification and data capture (“AIDC”), point-of-sale (“POS”), radio frequency identification (“RFID”) and mobility technologies to broaden our product lines and market presence. We create value in the market by extending the reach of our technology partners, capturing market share for resellers and suppliers, creating innovative solutions comprised of both technology products and services, offering credit facilities, and providing efficient fulfillment of IT products and services. With a broad range of products and an array of services, we create operating efficiencies for our partners around the world. History We began business in 1979, operating as Micro D Inc., a California corporation. Through a series of acquisitions, mergers and organic growth over the past twenty years, Ingram Micro’s global footprint and product breadth have been expanded and strengthened in North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. In June 2006 we purchased the assets of SymTech Nordic AS (“SymTech”), the leading Nordic distributor of AIDC and POS technologies, complementing the September 2004 acquisition of U.S.-based Nimax Inc., which was recently renamed Ingram Micro Data Capture/POS Division, and the launch of AIDC/POS/RFID divisions in our Latin American and Asia-Pacific regions within the last two years. Our July 2005 purchase of certain assets of AVAD, the leading distributor for solutions providers and custom installers serving the home automation and entertainment market in the United States, accelerated our entry into the adjacent CE market. Our November 2004 acquisition of all the outstanding shares of Techpac Holdings Limited (“Tech Pacific”), one of Asia-Pacific’s largest IT distributors, provided us with a strong presence in the growing Asia-Pacific region. Industry The worldwide technology products and services distribution industry generally consists of two types of business: traditional distribution business and the fee-based supply chain services business. Within the traditional distribution model, the distributor buys, holds title to, and sells products and/or services to resellers who, in turn, typically sell directly to end-users, or other resellers. Product manufacturers and publishers, which we collectively call suppliers or vendors, sell directly to distributors, resellers and end-users. While some vendors have elected to pursue direct sales strategies for particular customer and product segments, we believe that suppliers continue to embrace traditional distributors that have a global presence and are able to manage a large number of products and multiple resellers worldwide and to deliver products to market in an efficient manner. Resellers in the traditional distribution model are able to build efficiencies and reduce costs by depending on distributors for a number of services, including product availability, marketing, credit, technical support, and inventory management, which includes direct shipment to end-users and, in some cases, allows end-users to directly access distributors’ inventory data. Those distributors that work with resellers to offer enhanced value-added solutions and services customized to the needs of their specific customer base are better able to succeed in this environment. 1 Table of Contents Fee-based supply chain services encompass the end-to-end functions of the supply chain, taking a product from the point of concept through delivery to the customer. Suppliers choosing to sell direct present opportunities for distributors to supply logistics, fulfillment, and marketing services, as well as third-party products in a fee-based model. Similarly, retailers and Internet resellers seek fulfillment services, inventory management, reverse logistics, and other supply chain services that do not necessarily require a traditional distribution model. In summary, distributors continue to evolve their business models to meet customers’ needs (both suppliers and resellers) through provision of fee-for-services programs while maintaining an efficient and low-cost means of delivery for technology hardware, software, and services. Company Strengths We believe that the current technology industry environment generally favors large, financially sound distributors that have large product portfolios, economies of scale, strong business partner relationships and wide geographic reach. We deliver value to our partners by making reseller customers more valuable to their end-user customers and suppliers more profitable. We have identified several catalysts for growth in our core business and in new markets. We believe that the following strengths enable us to further enhance our leadership position in the IT distribution industry, expand our leadership position in adjacent technology product categories and generate sustainable, profitable growth. • Global Market Reach and Scale. We are the largest IT distributor in the world, by net sales, and believe that we are the market share leader, by net sales, in North America, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America and a strong number two in Europe. Ingram Micro is the only global full-line distributor with operations in the Asia-Pacific region. Our broad global footprint enables us to serve our resellers and suppliers with our extensive sales and distribution network while mitigating the risks inherent in individual markets. Our global market coverage provides a competitive advantage with suppliers looking for worldwide market penetration. The scale and flexibility of our operations enables Ingram Micro to provide the infrastructure behind the technology value chain in all its new and traditional forms. We have local sales offices and/or Ingram Micro sales representatives in 35 countries, and sell our products and services to resellers in more than 150 countries. We have local sales offices and/or Ingram Micro sales representatives in North America (United States and Canada), Europe (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, The Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom), Asia-Pacific (Australia, Bangladesh, the People’s Republic of China including Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Vietnam), and Latin America (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, and Peru). Additionally, we serve many other markets where we do not have an in-country presence through our various export sales offices, including our general telesales operations in various geographies. As of December 30, 2006, we had 108 distribution centers worldwide. We offer more than 1,300 suppliers access to a global customer base of more than 159,000 resellers of various categories including value-added resellers (“VARs”), corporate resellers, direct marketers, retailers, Internet-based resellers, and government and education resellers. For a discussion of our geographic reporting segments, see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data.” For a discussion of foreign exchange risks relating to our international operations, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” • Business Diversification. Our ability to execute on new initiatives and adapt to new business models provides a competitive advantage by allowing us to overcome the risks and volatility of a single market, vendor or product segment. • Products. In addition to our extensive market reach, our broad base of products allows us to better serve our customers, as well as mitigate risk. Our broad line card, or catalog of product offerings, makes us less vulnerable to market dynamics or actions by any one vendor. Based on publicly available information, we believe we offer the largest breadth of products in the IT industry. We continuously focus on refreshing our business with new, high-potential products and services. We have expanded our focus on AIDC/POS with 2 Table of Contents the acquisition of Nordic market leader, SymTech, and by strengthening our product offering globally. We are focused on vertical markets such as retail, healthcare and government which are the primary markets for AIDC/POS solutions. Our CE business continues to expand in all regions. New CE products, especially those evolving from the IT market such as LCD monitors and TVs, digital music, home networking and gaming PCs are driving growth and interest in consumer electronics. Our 2005 acquisition of AVAD in North America put us on the front lines of this convergence trend as the leading distributor for solution providers and custom installers serving the home automation and entertainment market. Our AVAD business, coupled with relationships we have developed with key CE manufacturers in higher volume product categories, has provided us with a wide range of market opportunities. We remain focused on our expansion in the mobile convergence market. As one of the few distributors with telecom carrier relationships throughout the world, Ingram Micro is positioned to benefit from the robust demand for smart handheld and converged devices. We believe that these adjacent product categories will provide a solid platform for growth. In support of our strategy to diversify revenue streams and expand addressable markets, we continue to build our private label business under the V7 (Video Seven) brand. • Services. The services market is one of the fastest-growing area of IT spending. Ingram Micro is intent on building its service offerings. Services will enhance our gross margin profile with no inventory risk while allowing us to bring additional value to our customers and become more connected to our resellers’ end-user customers. In support of this objective, Ingram Micro North America launched a new business unit in 2006, Ingram Micro Services Division, to help VARs address warranty maintenance, labor-based services, recurring and subscription-based services and managed services. Ingram Micro Logistics provides end-to-end order management and logistics supply-chain services to manufacturers, retailers, internet software, hardware and consumer electronics companies on a fee-for-service basis. In certain countries we provide logistics services to cellular/phone operators, including breaking bulk, retail kitting, SIM card administration, and distribution, as well as warranty services for a number of vendors. In addition, we also surround products and programs with our own services to resellers, such as access to complete solutions and financing. • Customers. Our focus on diversification extends to the wide-ranging customers we serve in each of our regions. Our customer segments are distinguished by the end-users they serve and the types of products and services they provide. We try to limit exposure to the impact of business fluctuations by maintaining a balance in the customer segments we serve. This diversification strategy has been enhanced with our additional focus on AIDC/POS, CE, home automation and entertainment, and mobility products, which offer new customer segments for our products. We target markets that provide growth opportunities for existing customers and vendors. The small-to-medium sized business (“SMB”) customer segment is generally one of the largest segments of the IT market in terms of revenue, and typically provides higher gross margins for distributors. Because of the number and dispersion of the SMB companies, it is a difficult segment for manufacturers to penetrate. SMB customers tend to upgrade or add systems often and employ VARs and other service providers for technology solutions in lieu of using an in-house IT staff. Our programs and services are geared to add value to VARs in a number of ways. We serve VARs with a complete “go-to-market” approach to a VAR’s business, including sales, marketing and technical support, training, solutions development, as well as expanding their end-user reach. • Geographic Diversification. Our presence in a larger number of markets than any other broadline technology products distributor provides us with a more balanced global portfolio with which to mitigate risk. In our more mature markets we are leveraging our solid foundation as market leader to spur additional growth by bringing new products and services to market. We are positioned to take advantage of higher growth potential in emerging markets. In these markets, we have established strong management teams versed in best practices provided by key management from established markets. • Competitive Differentiation through Superior Execution. We are committed to enhancing customer loyalty and share of business by continually strengthening our value proposition. Through our understanding and fulfillment of the needs of our reseller and supplier partners, we provide our customers with the supply chain tools they require to increase the efficiency of their operations, enabling them to minimize inventory levels, improve customer delivery, and enhance profitability. We provide business information to our customers, suppliers, and end-users by leveraging our information systems. We give resellers, and in some 3 Table of Contents cases their customers, real-time access to our product inventory data. By providing improved visibility to all participants in the supply chain, we allow inventory levels throughout the channel to more closely reflect end-user demand. This information flow enables our superior execution and our ability to provide favorable order fill rates to our customers around the world while optimizing our investment in working capital. Our commitment to outperform our peers in all geographies through superior execution and a customer-centric focus has been widely recognized throughout the IT industry, as evidenced by a number of awards received by Ingram Micro during 2006. In the United States, the 2006 CRN Sourcing Study, based on input from more than 1,200 solution providers, named Ingram Micro Number One Preferred Broadline Distributor, Most Sourced Distributor (Overall), and Most Strategic Broadline Distributor. For the third year in a row, the VARBusiness 500 have named Ingram Micro as The Most Important Distributor and the CRN Fast Growth 100 recognized Ingram Micro as Distributor of Choice and Most Important Distributor. Our vendors have recognized our efforts, as well. For example, Ingram Micro Europe was awarded the AMD Customer Expansion Award and partner awards from Fujitsu Siemens, Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard. Germany’s trade publication, Channel Partner, recognized Ingram Micro Germany as the Channel Champion in the “Broadline Distribution” category. Ingram Micro Chile was named Best Distributor for 2006 by Cisco. • Strong Working Capital Management and Financial Position. We have consistently demonstrated strong working capital management in both positive and difficult economic conditions. In particular, we have maintained a strong focus on optimizing our investment in inventory, while preserving customer fill rates and service levels. We have maintained our inventory days on hand at a stable range for the last six years as a result of our focused and sustainable initiatives towards minimizing excess and obsolete goods while improving buying patterns on our product flow. Furthermore, we continue to manage our accounts receivable generally through timely collections, credit limit setting, customer terms and process efficiencies to minimize our working capital requirements. Our business process improvement programs have also resulted in improving profitability and higher returns on invested capital, while providing us with a solid foundation for growth. Based on the strength of our consolidated balance sheet and improving profit trends, we also believe that we are well positioned to support our growth initiatives in our core business and invest in incremental profitable growth opportunities. Finally, we believe our solid financial position provides us with a competitive advantage as a reliable, long-term business partner for our supplier and reseller partners. • Continuous Focus on Optimizing Productivity. We continue to seek ways to improve our processes and streamline our business model. We leverage our IT systems and warehouse locations to support custom shipment requirements, and by optimizing delivery methodologies, we deliver faster, while reducing shipping costs. We remain focused on ensuring that our catalog includes the products most desired by our customers, optimizing inventory management, realizing higher margin opportunities, and developing merchandising and pricing strategies that produce enhanced business results. We continue to drive productivity gains through employing the Six Sigma methodology globally. Customers Our reseller customers are distinguished by the end-user market they serve, such as large corporate accounts, mid-market, SMBs, or home users, and by the level of value they add to the basic products they sell. They include VARs, corporate resellers, retailers, systems integrators, direct marketers, Internet-based resellers, independent dealers, reseller purchasing associations, and PC assemblers. Many of our reseller customers are heavily dependent on distribution partners with the necessary systems, capital, inventory availability, and distribution facilities in place to provide fulfillment and other services. We conduct business with most of the leading resellers of IT products and services around the world. Our continued expansion in the AIDC/POS and CE markets has generated opportunities to expand sales in our current customer reseller base, as well as add new reseller customers. In most cases, we have resale contracts with our reseller customers that are terminable at will after a reasonable notice period with no minimum purchase requirements. We also have specific agreements in place with certain manufacturers and resellers to provide supply chain management services such as order management, logistics management, configuration management, 4 Table of Contents and procurement management services. In cases where we do have contracts, either party without cause can terminate them on reasonable notice. The service offerings we provide to our customers are discussed further below under “Services.” Our business is not substantially dependent on any of these distribution or supply chain services contracts. Sales and Marketing We employ sales representatives worldwide who assist resellers with product and solution specifications, system configuration, new product/service introductions, pricing, and availability. Our product management and marketing groups also promote our sales growth, create demand for our suppliers’ products and services, enable the launch of new products, and facilitate customer contact. Our marketing programs are tailored to meet specific supplier and reseller customer needs. These needs are met through a wide offering of services by our in-house marketing organizations, including advertising, direct mail campaigns, market research, on-line marketing, retail programs, sales promotions, training, solutions marketing, and assistance with trade shows and other events. We also employ specialized channel marketing communities to deliver focused resources and business building support to solution providers. Products We distribute and market hundreds of thousands of technology products worldwide from the industry’s premier computer hardware suppliers, networking equipment suppliers, software publishers, and other suppliers of computer peripherals, CE, AIDC/POS and mobility hardware worldwide. Product assortments vary by market, and the suppliers’ relative contribution to our sales also varies from country to country. On a worldwide basis, our revenue mix by product category has remained relatively stable over the past several years, although it may fluctuate between and within different operating regions. Over the past several years, our product category revenues on a consolidated basis have generally been within the following ranges: • IT Peripherals/CE/AIDC/POS/Mobility and Others: 40-45 % • Systems: 24-29 % • Software: 15-20 % • Networking: 10-15 % IT Peripherals/CE/AIDC/POS/Mobility and Others. We offer a variety of products within the Peripherals and Others category that fall within several sub-categories: • Traditional IT peripherals such as printers, scanners, displays, projectors, monitors, panels, mass storage, and tape. • Consumer electronics products such as cell phones, digital cameras, digital video disc players, game consoles, televisions, audio, media management and home control. • AIDC/POS/RFID products such as barcode/card printers, AIDC scanners, AIDC software, wireless infrastructure products • Services provided by third parties and resold by Ingram Micro • Component products such as processors, motherboards, hard drives, and memory • Supplies and accessories such as ink and toner supplies, paper, carrying cases, and anti-glare screens Systems. We define our systems category as self-standing computer systems capable of functioning independently. We offer a variety of systems, such as servers, desktops, portable personal computers, tablet personal computers, and personal digital assistants. Software. We define our software category as a broad variety of applications containing computer instructions or data that can be stored electronically. We offer a variety of software products, such as business application software, operating system software, entertainment software, middleware, developer software tools, security software (firewalls, intrusion detection, and encryption) and storage software. 5 Table of Contents Networking. Our networking category includes networking hardware, communication products and network security. Networking hardware includes switches, hubs, routers, wireless local area networks, wireless wide area networks, network interface cards, cellular data cards, network-attached storage and storage area networks. Communication products incorporate Voice Over Internet Protocol communications, modems, phone systems and video/audio conferencing. Network security hardware includes firewalls, Virtual Private Networks, intrusion detection, and authentication devices and appliances. Services We offer fee-based services and services that we provide along with our product sales. Our fee-based services include supply chain services to suppliers and customers desiring to outsource specific supply chain functions through our Ingram Micro Logistics division in North America and existing business units in other regions. We also receive compensation for various services, including technical support, financial services, sales and marketing services, eCommerce services, and licensing solutions. Although services represent one of the initiatives of our long-term strategy, they have contributed less than 10% of our revenues in the past and may not reach that level in the near term. Suppliers Our worldwide suppliers include leading computer hardware suppliers, networking equipment suppliers, software publishers, CE manufacturers, and AIDC/POS suppliers, such as Acer; Adobe; Advanced Micro Devices Inc.; Canon USA, Inc.; Computer Associates; Epson; Hewlett-Packard; IBM; InFocus; Intel; Juniper Networks; Kingston Technology; Lenovo; Lexmark; LG Electronics; Microsoft; Motorola’s Enterprise Mobility business; NEC Display Solutions; Palm; Philips; Printronix; Samsung; Seagate; Symantec; Tom Tom; Toshiba; ViewSonic Corporation; Western Digital; Xerox; and Zebra. Products purchased from Hewlett-Packard generated approximately 22%, 23%, and 22% of our net sales in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. There were no other vendors that represented 10% or more of our net sales in any of the last three years. Our suppliers generally warrant the products we distribute and allow returns of defective products, including those returned to us by our customers. We do not independently warrant the products we distribute; however, local laws might impose warranty obligations upon distributors (such as in the case of supplier liquidation). We do warrant services, products that we build-to-order from components purchased from other sources, and our own branded products. Provision for estimated warranty costs is recorded at the time of sale and periodically adjusted to reflect actual experience. Historically, warranty expense has not been material. We have written distribution agreements with many of our suppliers; however, these agreements usually provide for nonexclusive distribution rights and often include territorial restrictions that limit the countries in which we can distribute the products. The agreements also are generally short term, subject to periodic renewal, and often contain provisions permitting termination by either party without cause upon relatively short notice. Certain distribution agreements either require (at our option) or allow for the repurchase of inventory upon termination of the agreement. For those agreements where inventory returns upon termination are not required, in practice many suppliers will elect to repurchase the inventory while other suppliers will either assist with liquidation or resale of the inventory. Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment in each of the regions in which we operate (North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America). Factors that we compete on include: • ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs; • availability of technical and product information; • credit terms and availability; • effectiveness of sales and marketing programs; 6 Table of Contents • price; • products and services availability; • quality and breadth of product lines and services; • speed and accuracy of delivery; and • web or call center-based sales. We believe we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. We compete against broadline IT distributors such as Tech Data and Synnex Corporation. There are a number of specialized competitors who focus upon one market or product or a particular sector which whom we compete. Examples include Avnet, Arrow, and Bell Microproducts in components and enterprise products; D&H Distributing, ADI, and BDI Laguna in consumer electronics; and ScanSource and Bluestar in AIDC/POS products. While we face some competitors in more than one region, others are specialized in local markets, such as Digital China (China), Redington (India), Intcomex (Latin America), Esprinet (Italy and Spain), and Actebis (Europe). We believe that suppliers and resellers pursuing global strategies continue to seek distributors with global sales and support capabilities. The evolving direct-sales relationships between manufacturers, resellers, and end-users continue to introduce change into our competitive landscape. We compete, in some cases, with hardware suppliers and software publishers that sell directly to reseller customers and end-users. However, we may become a business partner to these companies by providing supply chain services optimized for the IT market. Additionally, as consolidation occurs among certain reseller segments and customers gain market share and build capabilities similar to ours, certain resellers, such as direct marketers, can become competitors for us. As some manufacturer and reseller customers move their back-room operations to distribution partners, outsourcing and value-added services may be areas of opportunity. Many of our suppliers and reseller customers are looking to outsourcing partners to perform back-room operations. There has been an accelerated movement among transportation and logistics companies to provide many of these fulfillment and e-commerce supply chain services. Within this arena, we face competition from major transportation and logistics suppliers such as DHL, Menlo, and UPS Supply Chain Solutions. We are constantly seeking to expand our business into areas closely related to our core IT products and services distribution business. As we enter new business areas, including value-added services, we may encounter increased competition from current competitors and/or from new competitors, some of which may be our current customers. Asset Management We seek to maintain sufficient quantities of product inventories to achieve optimum order fill rates. Our business, like that of other distributors, is subject to the risk that the value of our inventory will be affected adversely by suppliers’ price reductions or by technological changes affecting the usefulness or desirability of the products comprising the inventory. It is the policy of many suppliers of technology products to offer distributors like us, who purchase directly from them, limited protection from the loss in value of inventory due to technological change or a supplier’s price reductions. Under many of these agreements, the distributor is restricted to a designated period of time in which products may be returned for credit or exchanged for other products or during which price protection credits may be claimed. We take various actions, including monitoring our inventory levels and controlling the timing of purchases, to maximize our protection under supplier programs and reduce our inventory risk. However, no assurance can be given that current protective terms and conditions will continue or that they will adequately protect us against declines in inventory value, or that they will not be revised in such a manner as to adversely impact our ability to obtain price protection. In addition, suppliers may become insolvent and unable to fulfill their protection obligations to us. We are subject to the risk that our inventory values may decline and protective terms under supplier agreements may not adequately cover the decline in values. In addition, we distribute a small amount of private label products for which price protection is not customarily contractually available, for which we do not normally enjoy return rights, and for which we bear certain increased risks. We manage these risks through pricing and continual monitoring of existing inventory levels relative to customer demand. On an ongoing basis, we reserve 7 Table of Contents for excess and obsolete inventories and these reserves are appropriately utilized for liquidation of such inventories, reflecting our forecasts of future demand and market conditions. Inventory levels may vary from period to period, due, in part, to the addition of new suppliers or new lines with current suppliers and strategic purchases of inventory. In addition, payment terms with inventory suppliers may vary from time to time, and could result in fewer inventories being financed by suppliers and a greater amount of inventory being financed by our capital. Trademarks and Service Marks We own or are the licensee of various trademarks and service marks, including, among others, “Ingram Micro,” the Ingram Micro logo, “V7” (Video Seven), “VentureTech Network,” “AVAD” and “SymTech.” Certain of these marks are registered, or are in the process of being registered, in the United States and various other countries. Even though our marks may not be registered in every country where we conduct business, in many cases we have acquired rights in those marks because of our continued use of them. Employees As of December 30, 2006, we employed approximately 13,700 associates (as measured on a full-time equivalent basis). Certain of our operations in Europe and Latin America are subject to syndicates, collective bargaining or similar arrangements. Our success depends on the talent and dedication of our associates, and we strive to attract, hire, develop, and retain outstanding associates. We have a process for continuously measuring the status of associate success and responding to associate priorities. We believe that our relationships with our associates are generally good. Available Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We therefore file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Such reports may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. Financial and other information can also be accessed through our website at www.ingrammicro.com. There, we make available, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY The following list of executive officers of Ingram Micro is as of February 23, 2007: Gregory M.E. Spierkel. Mr. Spierkel, age 50, has been our chief executive officer since June 2005. He previously served as president from March 2004 to June 2005, as executive vice president and president of Ingram Micro Europe from June 1999 to March 2004, and as senior vice president and president of Ingram Micro Asia-Pacific from July 1997 to June 1999. Prior to joining Ingram Micro, Mr. Spierkel was vice president of global sales and marketing at Mitel Inc., a manufacturer of telecommunications and semiconductor products, from March 1996 to June 1997 and was president of North America at Mitel from April 1992 to March 1996. Kevin M. Murai. Mr. Murai, age 43, has been our president and chief operating officer since June 2005. He previously served as president from March 2004 to June 2005, as executive vice president and president of Ingram Micro North America from January 2002 to March 2004, as executive vice president and president of Ingram Micro U.S. from January 2000 to December 2001, as senior vice president and president of Ingram Micro Canada from 8 Table of Contents December 1997 to January 2000, and vice president of operations for Ingram Micro Canada from January 1993 to December 1997. Keith W.F. Bradley. Mr. Bradley, age 43, has been our executive vice president and president of Ingram Micro North America since January 2005. He previously served as interim president and senior vice president and chief financial officer of Ingram Micro North America from June 2004 to January 2005, and as the region’s senior vice president and chief financial officer from January 2003 to May 2004. Prior to joining Ingram Micro in February 2000 as vice president and controller for the Company’s United States operations, Mr. Bradley was vice president and global controller of The Disney Stores, a subsidiary of Walt Disney Company, and an auditor and consultant with Price Waterhouse in the United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates and the United States. William D. Humes. Mr. Humes, age 42, has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since April 2005. Mr. Humes served as senior vice president and chief financial officer designee from October 2004 to March 2005, corporate vice president and controller from February 2004 to October 2004, vice president, corporate controller from February 2002 to February 2004 and senior director, worldwide financial planning, reporting and accounting from September 1998 to February 2002. Prior to joining Ingram Micro, Mr. Humes was a senior audit manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers. Henri T. Koppen. Mr. Koppen, age 64, has been our executive vice president and president of Ingram Micro Europe since March 2004. Mr. Koppen served as our executive vice president from January 2004 to March 2004, as executive vice president and president of Ingram Micro Asia-Pacific from February 2002 to December 2003, and served as senior vice president and president of Ingram Micro Asia-Pacific, from March 2000 through January 2002. He previously served as senior vice president and president of Ingram Micro Latin America from January 1998 to March 2000. Prior to joining Ingram Micro, Mr. Koppen served as president, Latin America, for General Electric Capital IT Solutions, a systems integrator/reseller company, from July 1996 to December 1997 and vice president, Latin America, for Ameridata Global Inc., a systems integrator/reseller company, from May 1995 to July 1996. Alain Monié. Mr. Monié, age 56, has been our executive vice president and president of Ingram Micro Asia-Pacific since January 2004. He joined Ingram Micro as executive vice president in January 2003. Previously, Mr. Monié was an international executive consultant with aerospace and defense corporations from September 2002 to January 2003. Mr. Monié also served as president of the Latin American division of Honeywell International from January 2000 to August 2002. He joined Honeywell following its merger with Allied Signal Inc., where he built a 17-year career on three continents, progressing from a regional sales manager to head of Asia-Pacific operations from October 1997 to December 1999. Mr. Monié was elected to the Board of Directors of Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated in October 2005. Larry C. Boyd. Mr. Boyd, age 54, has been our senior vice president, secretary and general counsel since March 2004. He previously served as senior vice president, U.S. legal services, for Ingram Micro North America from January 2000 to January 2004. Prior to joining Ingram Micro, he was a partner with the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher from January 1985 to December 1999. Alain Maquet. Mr. Maquet, age 54, has been our senior vice president and president of Ingram Micro Latin America since March 2005. Mr. Maquet served as our senior vice president, southern and western Europe from January 2001 to February 2004. Mr. Maquet joined Ingram Micro in 1993 as the managing director of France and had added additional countries to his responsibilities over the years. His career spans 30 years, 25 of which are in the technology industry, and he co-started an IT distribution company before joining Ingram Micro. Karen E. Salem. Ms. Salem, age 45, has been our senior vice president and chief information officer since February 2005. Prior to joining Ingram Micro, Ms. Salem served as senior vice president and chief information officer of Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc., a grocery retailer from September 2002 to February 2005. Ms. Salem was previously senior vice president and chief information officer of Corning Cable Systems, a fiber optic cable/equipment manufacturer, from September 2000 to September 2002. From August 1999 to September 2000, Ms. Salem was chief information officer for AFC Enterprises, Inc., a company of four entities: Church’s Chicken and Biscuits, Popeye’s Chicken, Cinnabon and Seattle’s Best Coffee. 9 Table of Contents Matthew A. Sauer. Mr. Sauer, age 59, has been our senior vice president of human resources since February 2003. He joined Ingram Micro in October 1996 as vice president of human resources and was promoted in September 1999 to corporate vice president of human resources strategies and processes. Ria M. Carlson. Ms. Carlson, age 45, has been our corporate vice president, strategy & communications, since April 2005. She previously served as vice president, investor relations & corporate communications from March 2001 through March 2005. Before joining Ingram Micro, Ms. Carlson served as vice president, communications and investor relations for Equity Marketing, Inc., an international toy and promotions company, from 1999-2001, vice president, public and investor relations for Sierra Health Services, Inc., from 1996-1999, and associate vice president, corporate communications for FHP International Corporation, a health care organization, from 1989 to 1996. James F. Ricketts. Mr. Ricketts, age 60, has been our corporate vice president and treasurer since April 1999. He joined Ingram Micro in September 1996 as vice president and treasurer. Prior to joining Ingram Micro, Mr. Ricketts served as treasurer of Sundstrand Corporation, a manufacturer of aerospace and related technology products, from February 1992 to September 1996. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) provides a “safe harbor” for “forward-looking statements” to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as such information is identified as forward-looking and is accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statement(s). Ingram Micro desires to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Act. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2006, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, periodic press releases, as well as other public documents and statements, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act, including, but not limited to, management’s expectations for process improvement; competition; revenues, expenses and other operating results or ratios; contingencies and litigation; economic conditions; liquidity; capital requirements; and exchange rate fluctuations. Forward-looking statements also include any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance, or achievements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “project,” “continue,” “plans,” “aims,” “intends,” “likely,” or other similar words or phrases. We disclaim any duty to update any forward-looking statements. In addition, our representatives participate from time to time in: • speeches and calls with market analysts, • conferences, meetings and calls with investors and potential investors in our securities, and • other meetings and conferences. Some of the information presented in these calls, meetings and conferences may be forward-looking within the meaning of the Act. Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Ingram Micro. In this regard, from time to time, we have failed to meet consensus analysts’ estimates of revenue or earnings. In future quarters, our operating results may differ significantly from the expectations of public market analysts or investors or those projected in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Ingram Micro due to unanticipated events, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this section. Because of our narrow 10 Table of Contents gross margins, the impact of the risk factors stated below may magnify the impact on our operating results and/or financial condition. We continue to experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. Our competitors include regional, national, and international distributors, as well as suppliers that employ a direct-sales model. As a result of intense price competition in the IT products and services distribution industry, our gross margins have historically been narrow and we expect them to continue to be narrow in the future. In addition, when there is overcapacity in our industry, our competitors may reduce their prices in response to this overcapacity. We offer no assurance that we will not lose market share, or that we will not be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to the actions of our competitors and thereby experience a further reduction in our gross margins. Furthermore, to remain competitive we may be forced to offer more credit or extended payment terms to our customers. This could increase our required capital, financing costs, and the amount of our bad debt expenses. We have also initiated and expect to continue to initiate other business activities and may face competition from companies with more experience and/or from new entries in those new markets. As we enter new business areas, we may encounter increased competition from current competitors and/or from new competitors, some of which may be our current customers or suppliers, which may negatively impact our sales or profitability. We have made and expect to continue to make investments in new business strategies and initiatives, including acquisitions, which could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our operating results. We have invested and may invest in the future in new business strategies or engage in acquisitions that complement our strategic direction. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management’s attention away from normal business operations; insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy; difficulty in the integration of new employees, business systems and technology; inability to adapt to challenges of a new market; exposure to new regulations; and issues not discovered in our due diligence process. These factors could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. We operate a global business that exposes us to risks associated with international activities. We have local sales offices and/or sales representatives in over 35 countries, and sell our products and services to resellers in more than 150 countries. A large portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations. As a result, our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including trade protection laws, policies and measures; tariffs; export license requirements; economic and labor conditions; political or social unrest; economic instability or natural disasters in a specific country or region, such as hurricanes and tsunamis; environmental and trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements; health or similar issues such as the outbreak of the avian flu; tax laws in various jurisdictions around the world (as experienced in our Brazilian subsidiary); difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currency in which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased, including devaluation and revaluation of local currencies. We manage our exposure to fluctuations in the value of currencies and interest rates using a variety of financial instruments. However, we may not be able to adequately mitigate all foreign currency related risks. We are dependent on a variety of information systems and a failure of these systems as well as infrastructure could disrupt our business and harm our reputation and net sales. We depend on a variety of information systems for our operations, particularly our centralized IMpulse information processing system, which supports operational functions that include inventory management, order processing, shipping, receiving, and accounting. At the core of IMpulse is on-line, real-time distribution software, which supports basic order entry and processing and customers’ shipments and returns. Although we have not in the past experienced material system-wide failures or downtime of IMpulse or any of our other information systems, we have experienced failures in IMpulse in certain specific geographies. Failures or significant downtime for IMpulse could prevent us from taking customer orders, printing product pick-lists, and/or shipping product. It could also prevent customers from accessing our price and product availability information. From time to time we may acquire other businesses having information systems and records, which may be converted and integrated into IMpulse or other Ingram Micro information systems. This can be a lengthy and expensive process that results in a material diversion of resources from other operations. In addition, because IMpulse is comprised of a number of legacy, internally developed applications, it can be harder to upgrade, and may not be adaptable to commercially available software. 11 Table of Contents Particularly as our needs or technology in general evolve and we make enhancements to our systems, we may experience greater than acceptable difficulty or cost in upgrading elements of our information system, we may experience significant disruptions in our business having a material adverse effect on our financial operations or we may be required to replace IMpulse entirely, which may require significant capital expenditures and cause material loss of revenue due to slowdowns or delays during transitions to new systems. We also rely on the Internet for a significant percentage of our orders and information exchanges with our customers. The Internet and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, some of which were caused by organized attacks. In addition, some websites have experienced security breakdowns. To date, our website has not experienced any material breakdowns, disruptions or breaches in security; however, we cannot assure that this will not occur in the future. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, this could harm our relationship with our customers or suppliers. Disruption of our website or the Internet in general could impair our order processing or more generally prevent our customers and suppliers from accessing information. This could cause us to lose business. We believe that customer information systems and product ordering and delivery systems, including Internet-based systems, are becoming increasingly important in the distribution of technology products and services. As a result, we are continually enhancing our customer information systems by adding new features, including on-line ordering through the Internet. However, we offer no assurance that competitors will not develop superior customer information systems or that we will be able to meet evolving market requirements by upgrading our current systems at a reasonable cost, or at all. Our inability to develop competitive customer information systems or upgrade our current systems could cause our business and market share to suffer. Terminations of a supply or services agreement or a significant change in supplier terms or conditions of sale could negatively affect our operating margins, revenue or the level of capital required to fund our operations. A significant percentage of our net sales relates to products sold to us by relatively few suppliers or publishers. As a result of such concentration risk, terminations of supply or services agreements or a significant change in the terms or conditions of sale from one or more of our partners could negatively affect our operating margins, revenues or the level of capital required to fund our operations. Our suppliers have the ability to make, and in the past have made, rapid and significantly adverse changes in their sales terms and conditions, such as reducing the amount of price protection and return rights as well as reducing the level of purchase discounts and rebates they make available to us. In most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with suppliers. In certain product categories, such as systems, limited price protection or return rights offered by suppliers may have a bearing on the amount of product we may be willing to stock. We expect restrictive supplier terms and conditions to continue in the foreseeable future. Our inability to pass through to our reseller customers the impact of these changes, as well as our failure to develop systems to manage ongoing supplier pass-through programs, could cause us to record inventory write-downs or other losses and could have a material negative impact on our gross margins. We receive purchase discounts and rebates from suppliers based on various factors, including sales or purchase volume and breadth of customers. These purchase discounts and rebates may affect gross margins. Many purchase discounts from suppliers are based on percentage increases in sales of products. Our operating results could be negatively impacted if these rebates or discounts are reduced or eliminated or if our vendors significantly increase the complexity of process and costs for us to receive such rebates. Our ability to obtain particular products or product lines in the required quantities and to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is critical to our success. The IT industry experiences significant product supply shortages and customer order backlogs from time to time due to the inability of certain suppliers to supply certain products on a timely basis. As a result, we have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, short-term shortages of specific products. In addition, suppliers who currently distribute their products through us may decide to shift to or substantially increase their existing distribution, through other distributors, their own dealer networks, or directly to resellers or end-users. Suppliers have, from time to time, made efforts to reduce the number of distributors with which they do business. This could result in more intense competition as distributors strive to secure distribution rights with these vendors, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. If suppliers are not able to provide us with an adequate supply of products to fulfill our customer orders on a timely basis or we cannot otherwise obtain particular products or a product line or suppliers substantially increase their existing distribution 12 Table of Contents through other distributors, their own dealer networks, or directly to resellers, our reputation, sales and profitability may suffer. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective income tax rates or operating margins and we may be required to pay additional tax assessments. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective income tax rates or operating margins could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries in low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income and other taxes. Any adverse outcome from these continuous examinations may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. In 2003, our Brazilian subsidiary was assessed for commercial taxes on its purchases of imported software for the period January to September 2002. The principal amount of the tax assessed for this period is $5,946. It has been our opinion, based upon the opinion of outside legal counsel, that we have valid defenses to the assessment of these taxes for the 2002 assessed period, as well as any subsequent periods. Accordingly, no reserve has been established previously for such potential losses. However, proposed changes to the tax law were approved by the Brazilian legislature on February 6, 2007, and submitted to the president for signature on February 9, 2007. If enacted in its present form, it is our opinion, based upon the opinion of outside legal counsel, that we will likely be required to take a charge of $33,028, which represents $5,946 of tax for the 2002 assessed period and $27,082 of potential tax assessment for the period from October 2002 to December 2005. The pending statute provides that no tax is due on such software importation after January 1, 2006. While the tax authorities may seek to impose interest and penalties in addition to the tax assessed, we continue to believe, based on the opinion of outside legal counsel, that we have valid defenses to the assessment of interest and penalties, which as of December 30, 2006, potentially amount to approximately $16,800 and $24,800, respectively. Therefore, we currently do not anticipate establishing an additional reserve for interest and penalties. All sums expressed are based upon an exchange rate prevailing on December 30, 2006 of 2.138 Brazilian Reais to the U.S. Dollar. We will continue to vigorously pursue administrative and judicial action to challenge the current, and any subsequent assessments. However, we can make no assurances that we will ultimately be successful in defending any such assessments, if made. We cannot predict what loss, if any, we might incur as a result of the SEC and U.S. Attorney’s inquiries we have received. We received an informal inquiry from the SEC during the third quarter of 2004. The SEC’s focus to date has been related to certain transactions with McAfee, Inc. (formerly Network Associates, Inc. or NAI) from 1998 through 2000. We also received subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney’s office for the Northern District of California (“Department of Justice”) in connection with its grand jury investigation of NAI, which seek information concerning these transactions. On January 4, 2006, McAfee and the SEC made public the terms of a settlement they had reached with respect to McAfee. We continue to cooperate fully with the SEC and the Department of Justice in their inquiries. We have engaged in discussions with the SEC toward a possible resolution of matters concerning these NAI-related transactions. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of these discussions, nor their timing, nor can we reasonably estimate the amount of any loss or range of loss that might be incurred as a result of the resolution of these matters with the SEC and the Department of Justice. Such amounts may be material to our consolidated results of operations or cash flows. We may incur material litigation, regulatory or operational costs or expenses, and may be frustrated in our marketing efforts, as a result of new environmental regulations, private intellectual property enforcement disputes, or product liability claims or product recalls on our own branded products. We may already operate in or expand into markets which could subject us to environmental laws that may have a material adverse effect on our business, including the European Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive as enacted by individual European Union countries and other similar legislation adopted in California, which make producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, responsible for collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of recovered products. We may also be prohibited from marketing products, could be forced to market products without desirable features, or could incur substantial costs to defend legal actions, including where third parties claim that we or vendors who may have indemnified us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. 13 Table of Contents In recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from target companies. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly settlement or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. As we expand our efforts in marketing and selling products under our V7 brand, we may become subject to product liability claims or product recalls in which we have limited or no ability to shift the cost of the litigation or recall to the manufacturer. If a downturn in economic conditions for the IT industry were to occur and continue for a long period of time, it would likely have an adverse impact on our business. The IT industry in general, and the IT products and services distribution industry in particular, experienced a severe downturn in demand for fiscal 2000 through most of fiscal 2003. This downturn resulted in a decline in our net sales and gross profit and impacted financial results of many of our customers and vendors. If another downturn were to occur, we may experience significant operating losses, elevated levels of obsolete inventory, and larger bad debt losses. We may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion to remain competitive, which may cause our profitability to suffer. We have significant credit exposure to our reseller customers and negative trends in their businesses could cause us significant credit loss. As is customary in many industries, we extend credit to our reseller customers for a significant portion of our net sales. Resellers have a period of time, generally 30 to 60 days after date of invoice, to make payment. We are subject to the risk that our reseller customers will not pay for the products they have purchased. The risk that we may be unable to collect on receivables may increase if our reseller customers experience decreases in demand for their products and services or otherwise become less stable, due to adverse economic conditions. If there is a substantial deterioration in the collectibility of our receivables or if we cannot obtain credit insurance at reasonable rates, are unable to collect under existing credit insurance policies, or take other actions to adequately mitigate such credit risk, our earnings, cash flows and our ability to utilize receivable-based financing could deteriorate. We are subject to the risk that our inventory values may decline and protective terms under supplier agreements may not adequately cover the decline in values. The IT products industry is subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced product specification requirements, and evolving industry standards. These changes may cause inventory in stock to decline substantially in value or to become obsolete. It is the policy of many suppliers of IT products to offer distributors like us, who purchase directly from them, limited protection from the loss in value of inventory due to technological change or such suppliers’ price reductions. For example, we can receive a credit from some suppliers for products, based upon the terms and conditions with those suppliers, in the event of a supplier price reduction. In addition, we have a limited right to return to some suppliers a certain percentage of purchases. These policies are often not embodied in written agreements and are subject to the discretion of the suppliers. As a result, these policies do not protect us in all cases from declines in inventory value. We offer no assurance that our price protection will continue, that unforeseen new product developments will not materially adversely affect us, or that we will successfully manage our existing and future inventories. During an economic downturn, it is possible that prices will decline due to an oversupply of product, and therefore, there may be greater risk of declines in inventory value. If major suppliers decrease the availability of price protection to us, such a change in policy could lower our gross margins on products we sell or cause us to record inventory write-downs. We expect the restrictive supplier terms and conditions to continue for the foreseeable future. We are also exposed to inventory risk to the extent that supplier protections are not available on all products or quantities and are subject to time restrictions. In addition, suppliers may become insolvent and unable to fulfill their protection obligations to us. Future terrorist or military actions could result in disruption to our operations or loss of assets in certain markets or globally. Future terrorist or military actions, in the U.S. or abroad, could result in destruction or seizure of assets or suspension or disruption of our operations. Additionally, such actions could affect the operations of our suppliers or customers, resulting in loss of access to products, potential losses on supplier programs, loss of business, higher losses on receivables or inventory, and/or other disruptions in our business, which could negatively 14 Table of Contents affect our operating results. We do not carry broad insurance covering such terrorist or military actions, and even if we were to seek such coverage, the cost would likely be prohibitive. Failure to retain and recruit key personnel would harm our ability to meet key objectives. Because of the nature of our business, which includes (but is not limited to) high volume of transactions, business complexity, wide geographical coverage, and broad scope of products, suppliers, and customers, we are dependent in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key management, sales, IT, operational, and finance personnel. Our continued success is also dependent upon our ability to retain and recruit other qualified employees, including highly skilled technical, managerial, and marketing personnel, to meet our needs. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. In addition, we have recently reduced our personnel in various geographies and functions through our restructuring and outsourcing activities. These reductions could negatively impact our relationships with our workforce, or make hiring other employees more difficult. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, changes in workforce, including government regulations, collective bargaining agreements or the availability of qualified personnel could disrupt operations or increase our operating cost structure. We face a variety of risks with outsourcing arrangements. We have outsourced various transaction-oriented service and support functions in North America to a leading global business process outsource provider outside the United States. We have also outsourced a significant portion of our IT infrastructure function and certain IT application development functions to third-party providers. We may outsource additional functions to third-party providers. Our reliance on third-party providers to provide service to us, our customers and suppliers and for our IT requirements to support our business could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations, including damaging our relationships with our suppliers and customers, if these third-party providers do not meet their obligations to adequately maintain an appropriate level of service for the outsourced functions or fail to adequately support our IT requirements. As a result of our outsourcing activities, it may also be more difficult to recruit and retain qualified employees for our business needs. Changes in our credit rating, or other market factors may increase our interest expense or other costs of capital, or capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms to fund our working capital needs. Our business requires significant levels of capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors. This is especially true when our business is expanding, including through acquisitions, but we still have substantial demand for capital even during periods of stagnant or declining net sales. In order to continue operating our business, we will continue to need access to capital, including debt financing. In addition, changes in payment terms with either suppliers or customers could increase our capital requirements. The capital we require may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Changes in our credit ratings, as well as macroeconomic factors such as fluctuations in interest rates or a general economic downturn, may restrict our ability to raise the necessary capital in adequate amounts or on terms acceptable to us, and the failure to do so could harm our ability to operate or expand our business. Rapid changes in the operating environment for IT distributors have placed significant strain on our business, and we offer no assurance that our ability to manage future adverse industry trends will be successful. Dynamic changes in the industry have resulted in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel and have placed and continue to place a significant strain upon our management, operating and financial systems, and other resources. This strain may result in disruptions to our business and decreased revenues and profitability. In addition, we may not be able to attract or retain sufficient personnel to manage our operations through such dynamic changes. Even with sufficient personnel we cannot assure our ability to successfully manage future adverse industry trends. Also crucial to our success in managing our operations will be our ability to achieve additional economies of scale. Our failure to achieve these additional economies of scale could harm our profitability. Changes in accounting rules could adversely affect our future operating results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies, including the FASB and the SEC, who create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. A change from current accounting standards could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our quarterly results have fluctuated significantly. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future as a result of: • seasonal variations in the demand for our products and services such as lower demand in Europe during the summer months, worldwide pre-holiday stocking in the retail channel during the September-to-December period and the seasonal increase in demand for our North American fee-based logistics related services in the fourth quarter which affects our operating expenses and gross margins; • competitive conditions in our industry, which may impact the prices charged and terms and conditions imposed by our suppliers and/or competitors and the prices we charge our customers, which in turn may negatively impact our revenues and/or gross margins; • currency fluctuations in countries in which we operate; • variations in our levels of excess inventory and doubtful accounts, and changes in the terms of vendor-sponsored programs such as price protection and return rights; • changes in the level of our operating expenses; • the impact of acquisitions we may make; • the impact of and possible disruption caused by reorganization efforts, as well as the related expenses and/or charges; • the loss or consolidation of one or more of our major suppliers or customers; • the impact of adverse outcomes in litigation and contingencies; • product supply constraints; • interest rate fluctuations, which may increase our borrowing costs and may influence the willingness of customers and end-users to purchase products and services; and • general economic or geopolitical conditions. These historical variations may not be indicative of future trends in the near term. Our narrow operating margins may magnify the impact of the foregoing factors on our operating results. We believe that you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of future performance. In addition, the results of any quarterly period are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. We are dependent on third-party shipping companies for the delivery of our products. We rely almost entirely on arrangements with third-party shipping companies for the delivery of our products. The termination of our arrangements with one or more of these third-party shipping companies, or the failure or inability of one or more of these third-party shipping companies to deliver products from suppliers to us or products from us to our reseller customers or their end-user customers, could disrupt our business and harm our reputation and net sales. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 