Item 1A. Risk Factors. In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Our loss reserves are based on estimates and may be inadequate to cover our actual losses. We must establish and maintain reserves for our estimated liability for loss and loss adjustment expenses. We establish loss reserves that represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have occurred but have not yet been reported to us. Reserves are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims. These estimates are inherently uncertain. Judgment is required to determine the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. The interpretation of this historical data can be impacted by external forces, principally legislative changes, economic fluctuations and legal trends. If there are unfavorable changes in our assumptions, our reserves may need to be increased. Workers’ compensation claims often are paid over a long period of time. In addition, there are no policy limits on our liability for workers’ compensation claims as there are for other forms of insurance. Therefore, estimating reserves for workers’ compensation claims may be more uncertain than estimating reserves for other types of insurance claims with shorter or more definite periods between occurrence of the claim and final determination of the loss and with policy limits on liability for claim amounts. Accordingly, our reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. If we change our estimates, these changes would result in adjustments to our reserves and 31 Table of Contents our loss and loss adjustment expenses incurred in the period in which the estimates are changed. If the estimate is increased, our pre-tax income for the period in which we make the change will decrease by a corresponding amount. In addition, increasing reserves results in a reduction in our surplus and could result in a downgrade in our A.M. Best rating. Such a downgrade could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to sell insurance policies. If we do not accurately establish our premium rates, our results of operations will be adversely affected. In general, the premium rates for our insurance policies are established when coverage is initiated and, therefore, before all of the underlying costs are known. Like other workers’ compensation insurance companies, we rely on estimates and assumptions in setting our premium rates. Establishing adequate rates is necessary, together with investment income, to generate sufficient revenue to offset losses, loss adjustment expenses and other underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. If we fail to accurately assess the risks that we assume, we may fail to charge adequate premium rates to cover our losses and expenses, which could reduce our net income and cause us to become unprofitable. For example, when initiating coverage on a policyholder, we estimate future claims expense based, in part, on prior claims information provided by the policyholder’s previous insurance carriers. If this prior claims information is not accurate, we may underprice our policy by using claims estimates that are too low. As a result, our actual costs for providing insurance coverage to our policyholders may be significantly higher than our premiums. In order to set premium rates accurately, we must: • collect and properly analyze a substantial volume of data; • develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulae; • closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and • project both frequency and severity of losses with reasonable accuracy. We must also implement our pricing accurately in accordance with our assumptions. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully, and as a result set premium rates accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, principally: • insufficient reliable data; • incorrect or incomplete analysis of available data; • uncertainties generally inherent in estimates and assumptions; • our inability to implement appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies; • costs of ongoing medical treatment; • our inability to accurately estimate retention, investment yields and the duration of our liability for loss and loss adjustment expenses; and • unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action. Consequently, we could set our premium rates too low, which would negatively affect our results of operations and our profitability, or we could set our premium rates too high, which could reduce our competitiveness and lead to lower revenues. A downgrade in our A.M. Best rating would likely reduce the amount of business we are able to write. Rating agencies evaluate insurance companies based on their ability to pay claims. We are currently assigned a group letter rating of “A–” (Excellent) from A.M. Best, which is the rating agency that we believe has the most influence on our business. This rating is assigned to companies that, in the opinion of A.M. Best, have demonstrated an excellent overall performance when compared to industry standards. A.M. Best considers “A–” rated companies 32 Table of Contents to have an excellent ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The ratings of A.M. Best are subject to periodic review using, among other things, proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. A.M. Best ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and insurance agencies and are not intended for the protection of investors or as a recommendation to buy, hold or sell securities. Our competitive position relative to other companies is determined in part by our A.M. Best rating. Any downgrade in our rating would likely adversely affect our business through the loss of certain existing and potential policyholders and the loss of relationships with independent agencies. The workers’ compensation insurance industry is cyclical in nature, which may affect our overall financial performance. The financial performance of the workers’ compensation insurance industry has historically fluctuated with periods of low premium rates and excess underwriting capacity resulting from increased competition followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity resulting from decreased competition. Although the financial performance of an individual insurance company is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most workers’ compensation insurance companies generally tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. Beginning in 2000 and accelerating in 2001, the workers’ compensation insurance industry experienced a market reflecting increasing premium rates, more restrictive policy coverage terms and more conservative risk selection. We believe these trends slowed beginning in 2004. We also believe the current workers’ compensation insurance market is slowly transitioning to a more competitive market environment in which underwriting capacity and price competition may increase. This additional underwriting capacity may result in increased competition from other insurance carriers expanding the kinds or amounts of business they write or seeking to maintain or increase market share at the expense of underwriting discipline. Because this cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of our competitors and general economic factors, we cannot predict the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. While we have not experienced significant increased price competition in our target markets during 2005, these cyclical patterns could cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate, which may cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. If we are unable to obtain reinsurance on favorable terms, our ability to write policies could be adversely affected. We purchase reinsurance to protect us from the impact of large losses. Reinsurance is an arrangement in which an insurance company, called the ceding company, transfers insurance risk by sharing premiums with another insurance company, called the reinsurer. Conversely, the reinsurer receives or assumes reinsurance from the ceding company. Our 2006 reinsurance program provides us with reinsurance coverage for each loss occurrence up to $30.0 million, subject to applicable deductibles and retentions. However, for any loss occurrence involving only one person, our reinsurance coverage is limited to $10.0 million, subject to applicable deductible and retentions. We retain the first $1.0 million of each loss and are subject to an annual aggregate deductible of approximately $10.8 million for losses between $1.0 million and $2.0 million before our reinsurers are obligated to reimburse us. After the deductible is satisfied, we retain 25.0% of each loss between $1.0 million and $2.0 million. The aggregate limit for all claims for losses between $1.0 million and $2.0 million is approximately $5.4 million. For losses between $2.0 million and $5.0 million, we are subject to an annual aggregate deductible of approximately $7.3 million before our reinsurers are obligated to reimburse us. The aggregate limit for all claims for losses between $2.0 million and $5.0 million is approximately $39.0 million. See “Business—Reinsurance” under Item 1 of this report. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance are subject to market conditions and our experience with insured losses. Due to the increased cost of reinsurance, we have increased our levels of retention on a per occurrence basis each year since 2003. As a result, we are exposed to increased risk of loss resulting from volatility in the frequency and severity of claims, which could adversely affect our financial performance. If any of our current reinsurers were to terminate participation in our 2006 reinsurance treaty program, we could be exposed to an increased risk of loss. The agreements under our 2006 reinsurance treaty program may be terminated by us or our reinsurers upon 90 days prior notice on any December 31. If our reinsurance treaty program is terminated and we enter into a new program, any decrease in the amount of reinsurance at the time we enter into a new program, whether caused by the 33 Table of Contents existence of more restrictive terms and conditions or decreased availability, will also increase our risk of loss and, as a result, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have eleven reinsurers participating in our reinsurance treaty program, and we believe that this is a sufficient number of reinsurers to provide us with the reinsurance coverage we require. However, because our reinsurance treaty program may be terminated on any December 31, it is possible that one or more of our current reinsurers could terminate participation in our program. In addition, we may terminate the participation of one or more of our reinsurers under certain circumstances as permitted by the terms of our reinsurance agreements. In either of those events, if our reinsurance broker is unable to spread the terminated reinsurance among the remaining reinsurers in the program, it could take a significant amount of time to identify and negotiate agreements with a replacement reinsurer. During this time, we would be exposed to an increased risk of loss, the extent of which would depend on the volume of terminated reinsurance. We may not be able to recover amounts due from our reinsurers, which would adversely affect our financial condition. Reinsurance does not discharge our obligations under the insurance policies we write. We remain liable to our policyholders even if we are unable to make recoveries that we are entitled to receive under our reinsurance contracts. As a result, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Losses are recovered from our reinsurers as claims are paid. In long-term workers’ compensation claims, the creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we recover amounts to which we are entitled. Therefore, if a reinsurer is unable to meet any of its obligations to us, we would be responsible for all claims and claim settlement expenses for which we would have otherwise received payment from the reinsurer. In the past, we have been unable to recover amounts from our reinsurers. In 2001, Reliance Insurance Company, one of our former reinsurers, was placed under regulatory supervision by the Pennsylvania Insurance Department and was subsequently placed into liquidation. As a result, between 2001 and 2005, we recognized losses related to uncollectible amounts due from Reliance aggregating $21.3 million. As of December 31, 2005, we had $122.6 million of recoverables from reinsurers. Of this amount, $106.3 million was unsecured. As of December 31, 2005, our largest recoverables from reinsurers included $27.0 million from American Reinsurance Company, $21.6 million from Odyssey America Reinsurance Company, $12.0 million from St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company and $11.2 million from Clearwater Insurance Company. If we are unable to collect amounts recoverable from our reinsurers, our financial condition would be adversely affected. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We principally offer workers’ compensation insurance. We have no current plans to focus our efforts on offering other types of insurance. As a result, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have a greater effect on us than on more diversified insurance companies that also sell other types of insurance. A decline in the level of business activity of our policyholders, particularly those engaged in the construction, trucking and logging industries, could negatively affect our earnings and profitability. In 2005, approximately 69.7% of our gross premiums written were derived from policyholders in the construction, trucking and logging industries. Because premium rates are calculated, in general, as a percentage of a policyholder’s payroll expense, premiums fluctuate depending upon the level of business activity and number of employees of our policyholders. As a result, our gross premiums written are primarily dependent upon the economic conditions in the construction, trucking and logging industries and upon economic conditions generally. 34 Table of Contents Unfavorable changes in economic conditions affecting the states in which we operate could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2005, we provided insurance in 27 states and the District of Columbia. Although we have expanded our operations into new geographic areas and expect to continue to do so in the future, approximately 57.7% of our gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2005 were derived from policyholders in Georgia, Louisiana, North Carolina, Florida, Illinois, Virginia, Alaska, Pennsylvania and Texas. No other state accounted for more than 5.0% of gross premiums written in 2005. In the future, we may be exposed to economic and regulatory risks or risks from natural perils that are greater than the risks faced by insurance companies that have a larger percentage of their gross premiums written diversified over a broader geographic area. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions affecting the states in which we write business could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. See “Business—Policyholders” in Item 1 of this report. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of factors beyond our control, which fluctuation may cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. The revenues and results of operations of insurance companies historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: • rising levels of claims costs, including medical and prescription drug costs, that we cannot anticipate at the time we establish our premium rates; • fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment that affect returns on invested assets; • changes in the frequency or severity of claims; • the financial stability of our reinsurers and changes in the level of reinsurance capacity and our capital capacity; • new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of liabilities of insurance companies; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; and • price competition. If our revenues and results of operations fluctuate as a result of one or more of these factors, the price of our common stock may be volatile. We operate in a highly competitive industry and may lack the financial resources to compete effectively. There is significant competition in the workers’ compensation insurance industry. We believe that our competition in the hazardous industries we target is fragmented and not dominated by one or more competitors. We compete with other insurance companies, individual self-insured companies, state insurance pools and self-insurance funds. Many of our existing and potential competitors are significantly larger and possess greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Moreover, a number of these competitors offer other types of insurance in addition to workers’ compensation and can provide insurance nationwide. We compete on the basis of many factors, including coverage availability, claims management, safety services, payment terms, premium rates, policy terms, types of insurance offered, overall financial strength, financial ratings and reputation. If any of our competitors offer premium rates, policy terms or types of insurance that are more competitive than ours, we could lose market share. No assurance can be given that we will maintain our current competitive position in the markets in which we currently operate or that we will establish a competitive position in new markets into which we may expand. 35 Table of Contents If we cannot sustain our relationships with independent agencies, we may be unable to operate profitably. We market a substantial portion of our workers’ compensation insurance through independent agencies. As of December 31, 2005, independent agencies produced approximately 82.3% of our voluntary in-force premiums. No independent agency accounted for more than 1.3% of our voluntary in-force premiums at that date. Independent agencies are not obligated to promote our insurance and may sell insurance offered by our competitors. As a result, our continued profitability depends, in part, on the marketing efforts of our independent agencies and on our ability to offer workers’ compensation insurance and maintain financial strength ratings that meet the requirements of our independent agencies and their policyholders. An inability to effectively manage the growth of our operations could make it difficult for us to compete and affect our ability to operate profitably. Our continuing growth strategy includes expanding in our existing markets, entering new geographic markets and further developing our agency relationships. Our growth strategy is subject to various risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • identify profitable new geographic markets for entry; • attract and retain qualified personnel for expanded operations; • identify, recruit and integrate new independent agencies; and • augment our internal monitoring and control systems as we expand our business. Because we are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, legislative changes may negatively impact our business. We are subject to extensive regulation by the Louisiana Department of Insurance and the insurance regulatory agencies of other states in which we are licensed and, to a lesser extent, federal regulation. State agencies have broad regulatory powers designed primarily to protect policyholders and their employees, and not our shareholders. Regulations vary from state to state, but typically address: • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of our investments; • restrictions on the terms of the insurance policies we offer; • restrictions on the way our premium rates are established and the premium rates we may charge; • required reserves for unearned premiums and loss and loss adjustment expenses; • standards for appointing general agencies; • limitations on transactions with affiliates; • restrictions on mergers and acquisitions; • restrictions on the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends to AMERISAFE; • certain required methods of accounting; and • potential assessments for state guaranty funds, second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements. We may be unable to comply fully with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations that are continually undergoing revision. In addition, we follow practices based on our interpretations of laws and regulations that we believe are generally followed by our industry. These practices may be different from interpretations of insurance 36 Table of Contents regulatory agencies. As a result, insurance regulatory agencies could preclude us from conducting some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. For example, in order to enforce applicable laws and regulations or to protect policyholders, insurance regulatory agencies have relatively broad discretion to impose a variety of sanctions, including examinations, corrective orders, suspension, revocation or denial of licenses and the takeover of one or more of our insurance subsidiaries. The extensive regulation of our business may increase the cost of our insurance and may limit our ability to obtain premium rate increases or to take other actions to increase our profitability. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of our liability under an insurance policy may not be known until many years after the policy is issued. For example, medical costs associated with permanent and partial disabilities may increase more rapidly or be higher than we currently expect. Changes of this nature may expose us to higher claims than we anticipated when we wrote the underlying policy. Additional capital that we may require in the future may not be available to us or may be available to us only on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including state regulatory requirements, the financial stability of our reinsurers and our ability to write new business and establish premium rates sufficient to cover our estimated claims. We may need to raise additional capital or curtail our growth if the capital of our insurance subsidiaries is insufficient to support future operating requirements and/or cover claims. If we had to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available to us or may be available only on terms that are not favorable. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result and the securities sold may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to the common stock. In addition, under certain circumstances, the sale of our common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into shares of our common stock, at a price per share less than the market value of our common stock may result in an adjustment to the conversion price at which shares of our existing convertible preferred stock may be converted into shares of our common stock. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to support future growth or operating requirements and, as a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Investment income is an important component of our net income. As of December 31, 2005, our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, had a carrying value of $582.9 million. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had $16.9 million of net investment income. Our investment portfolio is managed by an independent asset manager that operates under investment guidelines approved by our board of directors. Although these guidelines stress diversification and capital preservation, our investments are subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to general economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations and market volatility. General economic conditions may be adversely affected by U.S. involvement in hostilities with other countries and large-scale acts of terrorism, or the threat of hostilities or terrorist acts. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio and future investment income. For example, changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on mortgage-backed securities included in our investment portfolio. When interest rates fall, mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more quickly than expected and the holder must reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. In periods of increasing interest rates, mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more slowly, which may require us to receive interest payments that are below the interest rates then prevailing for longer than expected. 37 Table of Contents These and other factors affect the capital markets and, consequently, the value of our investment portfolio and our investment income. Any significant decline in our investment income would adversely affect our revenues and net income and, as a result, increase our shareholders’ deficit and decrease our surplus. Our business is dependent on the efforts of our executive officers because of their industry expertise, knowledge of our markets and relationships with the independent agencies that sell our insurance. Our success is dependent on the efforts of our executive officers because of their industry expertise, knowledge of our markets and relationships with our independent agencies. Our executive officers are C. Allen Bradley, Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Geoffrey R. Banta, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Arthur L. Hunt, Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and Craig P. Leach, Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing. We have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers that will expire on January 1, 2008, unless extended. Should any of our executive officers cease working for us, we may be unable to find acceptable replacements with comparable skills and experience in the workers’ compensation insurance industry and the hazardous industries that we target. As a result, our operations may be disrupted and our business may be adversely affected. We do not currently maintain life insurance policies with respect to our executive officers. AMERISAFE is an insurance holding company and does not have any direct operations. AMERISAFE is a holding company that transacts business through its operating subsidiaries, including American Interstate. AMERISAFE’s primary assets are the capital stock of these operating subsidiaries. The ability of AMERISAFE to pay dividends to our shareholders depends upon the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends to AMERISAFE. Payment of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries is restricted by state insurance laws, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds, and could be subject to contractual restrictions in the future, including those imposed by indebtedness we may incur in the future. See “Business—Regulation—Dividend Limitations” in Item 1 of this report. As a result, at times, AMERISAFE may not be able to receive dividends from its insurance subsidiaries and may not receive dividends in amounts necessary to pay dividends on our capital stock. Based on reported capital and surplus at December 31, 2005, American Interstate would have been permitted under Louisiana insurance law to pay dividends to AMERISAFE in 2006 in an amount up to $3.9 million without approval by the Louisiana Department of Insurance. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions in the articles of incorporation of AMERISAFE that prohibit us from paying dividends on our common stock (other than in additional shares of common stock) without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our convertible preferred stock. If holders of our convertible preferred stock consent to the payment of a dividend, we must pay a dividend to the holders of our convertible preferred stock on an as-converted to common stock basis equal to the dividend we pay to holders of our common stock. Currently, we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. Assessments and premium surcharges for state guaranty funds, second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. Most states require insurance companies licensed to do business in their state to participate in guaranty funds, which require the insurance companies to bear a portion of the unfunded obligations of impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments, which are expected to continue in the future. State guaranty associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurance companies in the state based on their proportionate share of premiums written in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies are engaged. See “Business—Regulation” in Item 1 of this report. Accordingly, the assessments levied on us may increase as we increase our written premium. Some states also have laws that establish second injury funds to reimburse insurers and employers for claims paid to injured employees for aggravation of prior conditions or injuries. These funds are supported by either assessments or premium surcharges based on paid losses. 38 Table of Contents In addition, as a condition to conducting business in some states, insurance companies are required to participate in residual market programs to provide insurance to those employers who cannot procure coverage from an insurance carrier on a negotiated basis. Insurance companies generally can fulfill their residual market obligations by, among other things, participating in a reinsurance pool where the results of all policies provided through the pool are shared by the participating insurance companies. Although we price our insurance to account for obligations we may have under these pooling arrangements, we may not be successful in estimating our liability for these obligations. Accordingly, mandatory pooling arrangements may cause a decrease in our profits. At December 31, 2005, we participated in mandatory pooling arrangements in 16 states and the District of Columbia. As we write policies in new states that have mandatory pooling arrangements, we will be required to participate in additional pooling arrangements. Further, the impairment, insolvency or failure of other insurance companies in these pooling arrangements would likely increase the liability for other members in the pool. The effect of assessments and premium surcharges or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. The outcome of recent insurance industry investigations and regulatory proposals could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. The insurance industry has recently become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities, as well as class action attorneys and the general public, relating to allegations of improper special payments, price-fixing, bid-rigging, improper accounting practices and other alleged misconduct, including payments made by insurers to brokers and the practices surrounding the placement of insurance business. Formal and informal inquiries have been made of a large segment of the industry, and a number of companies in the insurance industry have received or may receive subpoenas, requests for information from regulatory agencies or other inquiries relating to these and similar matters. These efforts are expected to result in both enforcement actions and proposals for new state and federal regulation. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these investigations, whether they will expand into other areas not yet contemplated, whether activities and practices currently thought to be lawful will be characterized as unlawful, what form new regulations will have when finally adopted and the impact, if any, of increased regulatory and law enforcement action and litigation on our business and financial condition. We may have exposure to losses from terrorism for which we are required by law to provide coverage. When writing workers’ compensation insurance policies, we are required by law to provide workers’ compensation benefits for losses arising from acts of terrorism. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us would depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act. Notwithstanding the protection provided by reinsurance and the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, the risk of severe losses to us from acts of terrorism has not been eliminated because our reinsurance treaty program includes various sub-limits and exclusions limiting our reinsurers’ obligation to cover losses caused by acts of terrorism. Accordingly, events constituting acts of terrorism may not be covered by, or may exceed the capacity of, our reinsurance and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may decline. The trading price of our common stock may decline for many reasons, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others: • our results of operations; • changes in expectations as to our future results of operations, including financial estimates and projections by securities analysts and investors; • results of operations that vary from those expected by securities analysts and investors; • developments in the healthcare or insurance industries; 39 Table of Contents • changes in laws and regulations; • announcements of claims against us by third parties; and • future issuances or sales of our common stock, including issuances upon conversion of our outstanding convertible preferred stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of companies whose shares are traded. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Securities analysts may not continue coverage of our common stock or may issue negative reports, which may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. There is no assurance that securities analysts will continue to cover our company. If securities analysts do not cover our company, this lack of coverage may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock, the trading price of our common stock may decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which, in turn, could also cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Because of our small market capitalization, it may be difficult for us to attract securities analysts to cover our company, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our principal shareholders have the ability to significantly influence our business, which may be disadvantageous to other shareholders and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2005, entities affiliated with Welsh Carson Anderson & Stowe, or Welsh Carson, collectively, beneficially owned approximately 44.1% of our outstanding common stock and possess approximately 40.7% of the total voting power. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, will have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. In addition, these shareholders may have interests that are different from ours. For example, entities affiliated with Welsh Carson own a substantial interest in AmCOMP Incorporated, which is a workers’ compensation insurance company. Two members of our board of directors are also directors of AmCOMP. Our officers, directors and principal shareholders could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger of our company even if the transaction would benefit other shareholders. Moreover, this concentration of share ownership may make it difficult for shareholders to replace management. In addition, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with significant or controlling shareholders. This concentration could be disadvantageous to other shareholders with interests different from those of our officers, directors and principal shareholders and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Being a public company will increase our expenses and administrative workload. We completed our initial public offering in November 2005. As a public company, we will need to comply with additional laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and requirements of the Nasdaq National Market. We were not required to comply with these laws and requirements as a private company. Complying with these laws and regulations will require the time and attention of our board of directors and management and will increase our expenses. Among other things, we need to: • design, establish, evaluate and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; 40 Table of Contents • prepare and distribute periodic reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; • establish new internal policies, principally those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance; • institute a more comprehensive compliance function; and • involve to a greater degree our outside legal counsel and accountants in the above activities. In addition, being a public company has made it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. In the future, we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain this coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executives and members of our board of directors, particularly directors willing to serve on our audit committee. We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of our internal controls over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are in the process of evaluating our internal control systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to assess, our internal controls over financial reporting. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are required to comply with Section 404 by no later than December 31, 2006. However, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory agencies such as the SEC. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and the trading price of our common stock may decline. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, our access to the capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our common stock may decline. The terms of our convertible preferred stock could adversely affect the value of our common stock. The conversion price of our convertible preferred stock is currently $20.58 per share and our outstanding convertible preferred stock is presently convertible into 2,429,541 shares of common stock. Subject to certain exceptions, the conversion price of our convertible preferred stock may decrease if we issue additional shares of our common stock for less than the market price of our common stock. Holders of our convertible preferred stock have the right to cause us to file a registration statement with the SEC to sell the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible preferred stock. Sales of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our convertible preferred stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may not pay dividends on our common stock (other than in additional shares of common stock) without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our convertible preferred stock. If holders of our convertible preferred stock consent to the payment of a dividend by us, we must pay a dividend to the holders of our convertible preferred stock on an as-converted to common stock basis equal to the dividend we pay to holders of our common stock. The terms of our articles of incorporation relating to our convertible preferred stock could impede a change of control of our company. Following a change of control, holders of our convertible preferred stock have the right to require us to redeem their shares at a redemption price of $100 per share plus the cash value of any accrued and 41 Table of Contents unpaid dividends. The redemption provisions of our convertible preferred stock could have the effect of discouraging a future change of control of our company. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and under the laws of the states of Louisiana and Texas could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors or otherwise effect a change of control of our company, which could diminish the value of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace or remove directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control of our company that shareholders might consider favorable. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect: • election of our directors is classified, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year; • shareholders have limited ability to call shareholder meetings and to bring business before a meeting of shareholders; • shareholders may not act by written consent, unless the consent is unanimous; and • our board of directors may authorize the issuance of junior preferred stock with such rights, preferences and privileges as the board deems appropriate. These provisions may make it difficult for shareholders to replace management and could have the effect of discouraging a future takeover attempt that is not approved by our board of directors, but which individual shareholders might consider favorable. We are incorporated in Texas and are subject to Part 13 of the Texas Business Corporation Act. Under this statute, our ability to enter into a business combination with any affiliated shareholder is limited. In addition, two of our three insurance company subsidiaries, American Interstate and Silver Oak Casualty, are incorporated in Louisiana and the other, American Interstate of Texas, is incorporated in Texas. Under Louisiana and Texas insurance law, advance approval by the state insurance department is required for any change of control of an insurer. “Control” is presumed to exist through the direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of a domestic insurance company or any entity that controls a domestic insurance company. Obtaining these approvals may result in the material delay of, or deter, any such transaction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 