Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors and other information set forth in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. The risks set forth below are in addition to risks that apply to most businesses. Our business and future performance may be affected by the following: We Have Incurred Losses from Continuing Operations for Several Years Prior to 2006. Our Losses Have In the Past Adversely Affected Our Ability to Compete. While we had income from continuing operations of $63.0 million and $11.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, we incurred losses from continuing operations of $1.5 million, $34.8 million, and $19.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Our historical losses have in the past impaired our ability to make substantial product investments and to market our products and services in competition against companies that are more profitable. If we are unable to sustain profitability, it may impair our ability to compete effectively. Failure to Maintain Effective Internal Controls Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Operating Results and Stock Price. We have documented and tested our internal control procedures in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting may be found under Item 9A. Controls and Procedures and the attestation of our auditors as a result of their audit of our internal control over financial reporting may be found at page F-3 Report of Independent Registered Pubic Audit Firm. As reported under Item 9A, our management believes that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2007. However, as a result of the control deficiencies and material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and in our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2004 and as of the end of each quarter in 2005 through September 30, 2005 identified by our management and reported by our management and our auditors (in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, filed with the SEC on March 16, 2006, as amended by Amendment No. 1, filed with the SEC on August 17, 2006; in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, filed with the SEC on March 25, 2005, as amended by Amendment No. 1, filed with the SEC on April 29, 2005, and Amendment No. 2, filed with the SEC on January 4, 2006; and in the Company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2005 (as amended and filed on January 4, 2006), August 9, 2005 and November 9, 2005), during 2005, the Company invested significant time and resources to remediate such material weaknesses, and as such, there were significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting during 2005 that materially affected our internal control over financial reporting in a positive way. These changes were aimed at eliminating internal control deficiencies in both the Company’s revenue and closing cycles. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are important in helping ensure that we produce reliable financial reports and prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. 11 Our Ability to Borrow or Issue Additional Shares of Preferred Stock Is Restricted by the Terms of Our Series A Preferred Stock. The Certificate of Designation governing our Series A Preferred Stock provides that so long as at least 600,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, at least 66 2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be required to approve the incurrence by QuadraMed of any long-term senior indebtedness of QuadraMed in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $8,000,000, excluding certain prior existing indebtedness. Furthermore, the Certificate of Designation requires the affirmative vote of a majority of any outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock prior to the authorization or creation of, or increase in the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series (or any security convertible into shares of any class or series) ranking senior to or on par with the Series A Preferred Stock in the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of QuadraMed or in the payment of dividends. This may hinder or delay our ability to borrow funds or issue preferred stock. We Could Experience a Significant Impact on Our Revenue if Our Customers Do Not Renew Maintenance Contracts. We derive a significant percentage of our revenue, including 44% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2007, from maintenance services. We provide maintenance services under maintenance contracts to many of our customers in connection with our healthcare information technology products. In general, these maintenance contracts renew on an annual basis. If a significant portion of these maintenance contracts were not renewed, our maintenance revenues would decline which could have a material adverse effect on our total revenue for the period(s) in which the maintenance contracts were discontinued. Future Sales in the Public Market of the Common Stock, Underlying our Series A Preferred Stock, Warrants or Option Exercises and Sales Could Lower Our Stock Price. A substantial number of shares of our common stock are issuable upon the exercise of stock options and warrants and upon conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock. We cannot predict the effect, if any, those future sales of such shares of common stock, or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock issued or issuable upon the exercise of stock options or warrants or upon the conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. If Our Series A Preferred Stock is Converted into Common Stock, these Converting Stockholders Will Have Significant Voting Power, and They Will Have the Ability to Exert Substantial Influence Over Matters Requiring Stockholder Approval. Each share of our Series A Preferred Stock is convertible into 8.0645 shares of our common stock, and the Series A Preferred Stockholders may convert at any time. If all of our Series A Preferred Stock is converted into common stock, the shares issued upon this conversion will total approximately 42.5% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, many of our Series A Preferred Stockholders own common stock. Therefore, although these stockholders may not acquire majority control upon conversion of their Series A Preferred Stock, if these distinct stockholders were to act together, they will have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, the approval of mergers or other business combinations, and other significant corporate actions. This ability to influence our affairs might not be advantageous to our other stockholders. Our Inability to Protect Our Intellectual Property Could Lead to Unauthorized Use of Our Products, which Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. In 2001, we filed our first patent application 12 covering our developed technology, the Affinity CPOE software application. This application lapsed, and we have no patents. Measures taken by us to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate, and our competitors could independently develop products and services that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products and services. Any infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary software and databases could put us at a competitive disadvantage in a highly competitive market and could cause us to lose revenues, incur substantial litigation expense and divert management’s attention from other operations. We are Dependent Upon Third-Party Software Licenses in Connection with the Sale of Our Software. If These Licenses Are Not Renewed or Are Terminated, We May Not Be Able to Continue to Use the Related Technology on Commercially Reasonable Terms or at All. We depend on licenses from a number of third-party vendors for certain technology, including the computer hardware, operating systems, database management systems, programming language and runtime environment upon which we develop and operate our products. We are materially reliant upon licenses with the following third-party vendors: InterSystems Corporation, Document Storage Systems, Inc., Megas Corporation, Unicor Medical, Oracle, Microsoft, Quovadx, the American Medical Association and the American Hospital Association. Most of these licenses expire within three to five years. Such licenses can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the license terms and fail to cure the breach within a specified time period. If such licenses are terminated, we may not be able to continue using the technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments until equivalent technology is obtained, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. However, as all application software companies, including QuadraMed and our competitors, are reliant on licensed technology and third-party components, we believe our reliance on such technology and licenses does not place us at a competitive disadvantage. At present, there is no equivalent technology for the InterSystems Corporation technology which is an integral component of our Patient Care and Revenue Management product line. The Company has entered into several agreements with InterSystems Corporation regarding the licensed technology relating to our Patient Care and Revenue Management product line. However, if InterSystems Corporation ceased to offer this technology and no other vendor provided the technology, we would be required to migrate our Patient Care and Revenue Management products to a new database platform or redesign our products to work with new software tools. This could be very costly and difficult to achieve and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we would successfully migrate our Patient Care and Revenue Management products to a new platform. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive and competitors may obtain the same or similar technology. In addition, if vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology, we may not be able to modify or adapt our products. Our International Operations, Including Our Activities and Contracts in the United Kingdom, Canada and the Middle East and Our Operations in India, May Subject Us to Additional Costs and Risks. In February 2008, we began a new partnership with Tata Consultancy Services (“TCS”), a leading global IT services and consulting firm based in India, to supplement our resources in the product development areas of quality assurance, technical publications and software programming. While TCS is an established organization with significant experience in the product development area, we may face challenges in managing relationships such as this, integration of the TCS personnel and work product with our own, and our lack of direct control over the Indian product development. Even though our contract with TCS is denominated in U.S. dollars and TCS remains responsible for the employment and tax liabilities of the personnel working with us, we could face additional costs associated with these Indian operations in the event of changes in foreign laws, regulations and policies. 13 In addition to our existing business, our acquisition of the CPR business in September 2007 increased the number of our customers and vendors located outside the United States, including in Canada, the United Kingdom, and the Middle East. While our contracts in the Middle East are denominated in U.S. dollars, most of our contracts with Canadian and U.K. customers and vendors are denominated in Canadian dollars and British pounds sterling, respectively. As a result, unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates could increase the costs of our operations in these countries, and we do not currently engage in any activities to hedge our foreign currency exposure. Further, instability in the Middle East or changes in the relations between the United States and the Middle East could increase the costs of our operations or affect our ability to maintain our customer or vendor contracts in this area If Our Products Fail to Accurately Assess, Process or Collect Healthcare Claims or Administer Managed Care Contracts, We Could Be Subject to Costly Litigation and Be Forced to Make Costly Changes to Our Products. Some of our products and services are used in the payment, collection, coding and billing of healthcare claims and the administration of managed care contracts. If our employees or products fail to accurately assess, process or collect these claims, customers could file claims against us. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover such claims. A successful claim that is in excess of, or is not covered by, insurance coverage could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even a claim without merit could result in significant legal defense costs and could consume management time and resources. In addition, claims could increase our premiums such that appropriate insurance could not be found at commercially reasonable rates. Furthermore, if we were found liable, we may have to alter significantly one or more of our products, possibly resulting in additional unanticipated software development expenses. Changes in Procurement Practices of Hospitals Have and May Continue to Have a Negative Impact on Our Revenues. A substantial portion of our revenues has been and is expected to continue to be derived from sales of software products and services to hospitals. Hospitals are slow to make changes and generally favor their existing vendor when considering an upgrade in their systems. Consolidation in the healthcare industry, particularly in the hospital and managed care markets, could decrease the number of existing or potential purchasers of products and services and could adversely affect our business. In addition, the decision to purchase our products often involves a committee approval. Consequently, it is difficult for us to predict the timing or outcome of the buying decisions of our customers or potential customers. In addition, many healthcare providers are consolidating to create integrated delivery networks with greater regional market power. Others may become participants in integrated delivery systems or integrated delivery networks through merger and acquisition activity or the formation of collaborations using the shared of a jointly owned information technology services entity, some of which may seek to implement a single electronic health information solution for participating organizations. These emerging systems IDSs or IDNs or colorations could have greater bargaining power, which may lead to decreases in prices for our products, and consequently could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the Healthcare Financing and Reimbursement System Could Adversely Affect the Amount of and Manner in which Our Customers Purchase Our Products And Services. Changes in current healthcare financing and reimbursement systems (e.g., Medicaid) could result in unplanned product enhancements, delays or cancellations of product orders or shipments, or reduce the need for certain systems. We could also have the endorsement of products by hospital associations or other customers revoked. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business. Alternatively, the federal government recently mandated that all but small healthcare providers submit claims to Medicare in electronic format, which may positively affect sales of our systems and products. 14 Healthcare Regulations and Reform Proposals Could Adversely Affect Demand for Our Products. The healthcare industry in the United States is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement practices and operations of healthcare organizations. The traditional hospital delivery system is evolving as more hospital services are being provided by niche, free standing practices and outpatient providers. The commercial value and appeal of our products may be adversely affected if the current healthcare financing and reimbursement systems were to change. During the past several years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing levels of governmental regulation. Proposals to reform the healthcare system have been and are being considered by the United States Congress. These proposals, if enacted, could adversely affect the commercial value and appeal of our products or change the operating environment of our customers in ways that cannot be predicted. Healthcare organizations may react to these proposals by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our products and services. In addition, the regulations promulgated under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) could lead healthcare organizations to curtail or defer investments in non-HIPAA related features in the next several years. Government Regulation of E-Prescribing and Electronic Health Record Technologies Could Increase Administrative Costs and Decrease Product Demand. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”) has issued final rules protecting certain eligible entities that provide electronic prescribing (e-prescribing) and electronic health record (EHR) items and services to certain eligible recipients. The final rules became effective October 10, 2006. The EHR safe harbor protects, among other things, donations of software or information technology. The rule requires that a recipient pay 15% of the donor’s cost for the items and services and also requires that reference to the donor’s cost of the items or services be included in the agreement between the parties. The safe harbor will sunset on December 31, 2013. The e-prescribing safe harbor is largely reflective of the Congressional mandate requiring its implementation under MMA. This safe harbor does not include a requirement that the provider bear 15% of costs. The EHR and e-prescribing exceptions to the physician self-referral (Stark) law are very similar to the anti-kickback safe harbors, described above, while nevertheless accounting for the differences in the underlying statutes. For example, the EHR exception requires a receiving physician to pay 15% of the cost of the items or services, and the exception will sunset in 2013. One or more of the above-referenced rules may increase the administrative costs typically associated with the sale of our products to the extent we are required to provide more detailed cost estimates to both parties participating in a proposed donation of technology. Failure on our part to provide accurate cost estimates could lead to contractual or legal exposure. In addition, we may be asked to execute agreements between prospective donors and recipients as a third party. Such requests may require additional review and analysis. In some cases, an agreement may provide either or both parties with the option to terminate the agreement upon either a change in law or experienced counsel’s opinion of the law. As these safe harbors and exceptions may be subject to ambiguity, differing interpretation, and potential future sub-regulatory guidance, and given the inherent sensitivities to achieving compliance with safe harbors and exceptions, such termination provisions may have a negative impact on contractual certainty, especially in the context of certain longer-term arrangements, including servicing arrangements. Customer frustration with the compliance obligations associated with the above-referenced rules, or fear that failure to comply fully with these rules could result in legal exposure, could decrease demand for our products. Alternatively, the protection afforded by these rules for the donation of electronic health information technologies may positively affect sales of our systems and products. The Variability and Length of Our Sales Cycle for Our Products May Exacerbate the Unpredictability and Volatility of Our Operating Results. We cannot accurately forecast the timing of customer purchases due to the complex procurement decision processes of most healthcare providers and payers. How and when to implement, replace, expand or substantially 15 modify an information system are major decisions for hospitals, and such decisions require these entities to make significant capital expenditures. As a result, we typically experience sales cycles that extend over several quarters. In particular, our Patient Care and Revenue Management software has a higher average selling price and longer sales cycle than many of our other products. As a result, we have only a limited ability to forecast the timing and size of specific sales, making the prediction of quarterly financial performance more difficult. We Operate in a Highly Competitive Market. Competition for our products and services is intense and is expected to increase. Increased competition could result in reductions in our prices, gross margins and market share and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete with other providers of healthcare information software and services, as well as healthcare consulting firms. Some competitors have formed business alliances with other competitors that may affect our ability to work with some potential customers. In addition, if some of our competitors merge, a stronger competitor may emerge. Some principal competitors include: • In the market for healthcare information systems: Epic Corporation, McKesson Corporation, Inc., Siemens Health Services, a division of Siemens Medical Solutions of Siemens AG, MediTech Corporation, Eclipsys Corporation and Cerner; • In the market for electronic document management products: McKesson Corporation, SoftMed Corporation Inc., FileNet, Streamlined Health, MedPlus and Eclipsys Corporation; • In the market for Smart Identity Management products and services: Initiate Systems, Inc., McKesson Corporation, Siemens Health Services, a division of Siemens Medical Solutions of Siemens AG, and Medibase; • In the market for decision support products: Eclipsys Corporation, Healthcare Microsystems, Inc., a division of Health Management Systems Inc., McKesson Corporation, Siemens Health Services, a division of Siemens Medical Solutions of Siemens AG, and MediQual Systems, Inc., a division of Cardinal Health, Inc.; and • In the market for coding, compliance, data, and record management products in the Health Information Management Software Division: 3M Corporation, SoftMed Corporation, Inc (recently acquired by 3M Corporation), MetaHealth, Eclipsys Corporation and HSS, Inc., an Ingenix Corporation. Prospective customers may evaluate our products’ capabilities against the merits of their existing information systems and expertise and decide to stay with their incumbent vendor due to the cost associated with conversion. In addition, existing and prospective customers may be reluctant to buy from us because of the losses we have incurred in past years. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources, and market recognition than we have. These competitors may be in a position to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Our competitors also have, or may develop or acquire, substantial installed customer bases in the healthcare industry. As a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, changes in customer requirements and changes in the political, economic or regulatory environment in the healthcare industry. We Have Encountered Significant Challenges Integrating Acquired Businesses, and Future Transactions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Operations and Financial Condition. Throughout our history, we have made many acquisitions and have encountered significant challenges integrating the acquired businesses into our operations. In recent years, we have made significant progress toward that integration. However, we continue to support different technology platforms. In the future, we plan to 16 make investments in or acquire additional complementary businesses, products, services or technologies. These investments and acquisitions, including our acquisition of the CPR assets and related business of Misys Hospital Systems, Inc., as discussed in Note 4—Acquisition of the Misys Computerized Patient Records Business to the financial statements, will create new integration challenges. Some of the challenges we have encountered, and may encounter with acquisitions in the future, in integrating acquired businesses include: • Interruption, disruption or delay of our ongoing business; • Distraction of management’s attention from other matters; • Additional operational and administrative expenses; • Difficulty managing geographically dispersed operations; • Failure of acquired businesses to achieve expected results, resulting in our failure to realize anticipated benefits; • Write-down or reclassification of acquired assets; • Failure to retain key acquired personnel and difficulty and expense of training those retained; • Increases in compensation and stock compensation expenses resulting from newly hired employees; • Assumption of liabilities and potential for disputes with the sellers of acquired businesses; • Customer dissatisfaction or performance problems related to acquired businesses; • Failure to maintain good relations with customers or suppliers; • Exposure to the risks of entering markets in which we have no prior direct experience and to risks associated with market acceptance of acquired products and technologies; and • Platform and technical issues related to integrating systems from various acquired companies. In the past, all of these factors have had an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could also face these same challenges in the future. Our Laboratory Solutions are Subject to FDA Regulation. We May Be Required to Make Substantial Changes to Our Products if More of Our Products Become Subject to FDA Regulation, which Could Require a Significant Capital Investment. Computer products used or intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of diseases or other conditions or that affect the structure or function of the body are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“Act”). Our Laboratory solutions are considered Class I medical devices that are regulated under the Act and amendments to the Act. While we were required to register our Laboratory solutions with the FDA, they are exempted from the FDA’s more onerous and costly premarket notification procedures. In the future, the FDA could determine that some of our products, because of their predictive aspects, are clinical decision tools and subject them to regulation, including registration and, perhaps, premarket notification requirements. Compliance with such FDA regulations could be burdensome, time consuming and expensive. Other new laws and regulations affecting healthcare software development also could be enacted in the future. If so, it is possible that our costs and the length of time for product development could increase and that other unforeseeable consequences could arise. 17 Governmental Regulation of the Confidentiality of Patient Health Information Could Result in Our Customers Being Unable to Use Our Products Without Significant Modification, which Could Require Significant Capital Expenditures. There is substantial state and federal regulation of the confidentiality of patient health information and the circumstances under which such information may be used by, disclosed to, or processed by us as a consequence of our contacts with various health plans and healthcare providers. This includes state and federal requirements designed to prevent I.D. theft. Although compliance with these laws and regulations is presently the principal responsibility of our customers (e.g., health plans, hospitals, physicians or other healthcare providers), regulations governing patient confidentiality rights are dynamic and rapidly evolving. As such, laws and regulations currently applicable only to certain healthcare entities could be modified so that they could directly apply to us. Additionally, changes to the laws and regulations that would require us to change our systems and our methods may be made in the future, which could require significant expenditure of capital and decrease future business prospects. Also, additional federal and state legislation governing the dissemination of patient health information may be proposed and adopted, which may also significantly affect our business. Finally, certain existing laws and regulations require healthcare entities to contractually pass on their obligations to other entities with which they do business; as such, we are indirectly impacted by various additional laws and regulations. HIPAA is a federal law that affects the use, disclosure, transmission and storage of individually identifiable health information referred to as “protected health information.” As directed by HIPAA, DHHS must promulgate standards or rules for certain electronic health transactions, code sets, data security, unique identification numbers and privacy of protected health information. DHHS has issued some of these rules in final form, while others remain in development. In general, under these rules, we function as a “business associate” to some of our customers (who are considered to be “covered entities” under HIPAA). The three rules primarily relevant to us and our customers—the Transactions Rule, the Privacy Rule and the Security Rule – are discussed below. It is important to note that DHHS could, at any time in the future, modify any existing final rule in a manner that could require us to change our systems or operations. DHHS published three rules under HIPAA that are primarily relevant to us and our customers: the Transactions Rule governs transactions and code set standards; the Privacy Rule governs the exchange or creation of protected health information; and the Security Rule the use, disclosure, transmission, storage and destruction of electronic protected health information. We have completed modifications to our business practices and software offerings so that we are able to assist our customers in complying with the Transactions Rule, Privacy Rule and Security Rule. However, DHHS continues to publish change notices to the existing rules and propose new rules. There is no certainty that we will be able to respond to all such rules in a timely manner and our inability to do so could adversely affect our business. Government Regulation to Adopt and Implement ICD-10-CM and ICD-10-PCS Medical Code Set Standards Could Require Substantial Modification of our Coding and Compliance Software The American Health Information Management Association and other prominent healthcare industry advocacy groups are calling on DHHS and the healthcare industry to take action to adopt and implement ICD-10-CM and ICD-10-PCS code sets, rules and guidelines as a replacement for current ICD-9-CM guidelines used in our software products. Adoption of these new code sets would require us to change our systems and our methods which could require a significant expenditure of software development capital and decrease future business prospects for our current product line. 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 