Risk Factors We may be unable to successfully implement our retail store rollout strategy, which could result in significantly lower revenue growth. The key driver of our growth strategy is our retail store expansion. At January 29, 2005, we operated 114 stores and we have since opened an additional four stores in the fiscal 2005 first quarter for a total of 118 stores currently in operation. We currently plan to open a total of approximately 60 new stores in fiscal 2005. We believe we have the potential to open 450 to 500 retail stores over the next five to seven years. However, there can be no assurance that these stores will be opened, will be opened in a timely manner, or, if opened, that these stores will be profitable. Our ability to open our planned retail stores depends on our ability to successfully: •Identify or secure premium retail space; •Negotiate site leases or obtain favorable lease terms for the retail store locations we identify; and •construction delays and cost overruns in connection with the build-out of new stores. Any miscalculations or shortcomings in the planning and control of our retail growth strategy could materially impact our results of operations and our financial condition. We may continue to refine our retail store model, which could delay our planned retail store rollout and result in slower revenue growth. We have made numerous refinements in our retail store format since opening our first full-line store in 1999, including our most recent revision to our store model in fiscal 2005. Our retail model may undergo further refinements as we gain experience operating more stores. If we determine to make further refinements to our store model, it may delay the progress of our retail store roll-out, which could slow our anticipated revenue growth. We are required to make long-term financial commitments when leasing retail store locations, which would make it more costly for us to close or relocate stores that do not prove to be successful. Furthermore, retail store operations entail substantial fixed costs, including costs associated with maintaining inventory levels, leasehold improvements, fixtures, store design and information and management systems, and we must continue to make these investments to maintain our current and future stores. We may not select optimal locations for our retail stores, which could affect our net sales. The success of individual retail stores will depend to a great extent on locating them in desirable shopping venues in markets that include our target demographic. The success of individual stores may depend on the success of the shopping malls or lifestyle centers in which they are located. In addition, the demographic and other marketing data we rely on in determining the location of our stores cannot predict future consumer preferences and buying trends with complete accuracy. As a result, retail stores we open may not be profitable or may be less successful than we anticipate. We may be unable to manage significant increases in the costs associated with our catalog business, which could affect our results of operations. We incur substantial costs associated with our catalog mailings, including paper, postage, merchandise acquisition and human resource costs associated with catalog layout and design, production and circulation and increased inventories. Most of these costs are incurred prior to mailing. 16 As a result, we are not able to adjust the costs of a particular catalog mailing to reflect the actual subsequent performance of the catalog. Significant increases in U.S. Postal Service rates and the cost of telecommunications services, paper and catalog production could significantly increase our catalog production costs and result in lower profits for our catalog business to the extent we are unable to pass these costs onto our customers or implement more cost effective printing, mailing or distribution systems. Because our catalog business accounts for a significant portion of total net sales, any performance shortcomings experienced by our catalog business would likely have a material adverse effect on our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Response rates to our catalogs could decline, which would negatively impact our net sales and results of operations. Response rates to our catalog mailings and, as a result, the net sales generated by each catalog mailing, can be affected by factors beyond our control such as changing consumer preferences, willingness to purchase goods through catalogs, weak economic conditions and uncertainty, and unseasonable weather in key geographic markets. In addition, a portion of our catalog mailings are to prospective customers. These mailings involve risks not present in mailings to our existing customers, including lower and less predictable response rates. Additionally, it has become more difficult for us and other direct retailers to obtain quality prospecting mailing lists, which may limit our ability to maintain the size of our active catalog customer list. Lower response rates could result in lower-than-expected full-price sales and higher-than-expected clearance sales at substantially reduced margins. Consumers concerns about purchasing items via the Internet as well as external or internal infrastructure system failures could negatively impact our e-commerce sales or cause us to incur additional costs. Our e-commerce business is vulnerable to consumer privacy concerns relating to purchasing items over the Internet, security breaches, and failures of internet infrastructure and communications systems. If consumer confidence in making purchases over the Internet declines as a result of privacy or other concerns, our e-commerce net sales could decline. We may be required to incur increased costs to address or remedy any system failures or security breaches. We may be unable to manage expanding operations and the complexities of our multi-channel strategy, which could harm our results of operations. During the past few years, with the implementation of our multi-channel business model, our overall business has become substantially more complex. This increasing complexity has resulted and is expected to continue to result in increased demands on our managerial, operational and administrative resources and has forced us to develop new expertise. In order to manage our complex multi-channel strategy, we will be required to continue, among other things, to: •improve and integrate our management information systems and controls, including installing and integrating a new inventory management system; •expand our distribution capabilities; •attract, train and retain qualified personnel, including middle and senior management, and manage an increasing number of employees; and •obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity from vendors to produce our merchandise. 17 We may be unable to anticipate changing customer preferences and to respond in a timely manner by adjusting our merchandise offerings, which could result in lower sales. Our future success will depend largely on our ability to continually select the right merchandise assortment, maintain appropriate inventory levels and creatively present merchandise in a way that is appealing to our customers. Consumer preferences cannot be predicted with certainty, as they continually change and vary from region to region. On average, we begin the design process for our apparel nine to ten months before merchandise is available to our customers, and we typically begin to make purchase commitments four to six months in advance. These lead times make it difficult for us to respond quickly to changing consumer preferences and amplify the consequences of any misjudgments we might make in anticipating customer preferences. Consequently, if we misjudge our customers' merchandise preferences or purchasing habits, our sales may decline significantly, and we may be required to mark down certain products to significantly lower prices to sell excess inventory, which would result in lower margins. We depend on key vendors for timely and effective sourcing and delivery of our merchandise. If these vendors are unable to timely fill orders or meet our quality standards, we may lose customer sales and our reputation may suffer. Our direct business depends largely on our ability to fulfill orders on a timely basis, and our direct and retail businesses depend largely on our ability to keep appropriate levels of inventory in our distribution center and our stores. As we grow our retail business, we may experience difficulties in obtaining sufficient manufacturing capacity from vendors to produce our merchandise. We generally maintain non-exclusive relationships with multiple vendors that manufacture our merchandise. However, we have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could discontinue selling to us at any time. If we were required to change vendors or if a key vendor were unable to supply desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, particularly in light of our recent trend toward consolidating more of our merchandise purchases with fewer vendors, we may experience delays in filling customer orders or delivering inventory to our stores until alternative supply arrangements are secured, which could result in lost sales and a decline in customer satisfaction. Our increasing reliance on foreign vendors will subject us to uncertainties that could impact our cost to source merchandise and delay or prevent merchandise shipments. As we expand our retail stores and our merchandise volume requirements increase, we expect to source merchandise directly from foreign vendors, particularly those located in Asia. During fiscal 2005 we anticipate that we will be the importer of record on approximately 15% of our total merchandise purchases. This will expose us to new and greater risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could substantially impact our ability to source merchandise through foreign vendors and to realize any perceived cost savings. We will be subject to, among other things: •burdens associated with doing business overseas, including the imposition of, or increases in, tariffs or import duties, or import/export controls or regulation, as well as credit assurances we are required to provide to foreign vendors; •declines in the relative value of the U.S. dollar to other foreign currencies; •failure of foreign vendors to adhere to our quality assurance standards or our standards for conducting business; •changing or uncertain economic conditions, political uncertainties or unrest, or epidemics or other health or weather-related events in foreign countries resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries; and 18 •restrictions on the transfer of funds or transportation delays or interruptions. On December 31, 2004, quota restrictions on the importing of apparel into the United States from foreign countries which are members of the World Trade Organization expired. The effect this quota expiration will have on global sourcing patterns is uncertain but is likely to continue the retail price deflation. Our sourcing strategy is designed to allow us to adjust to potential shifts in availability of apparel following the expiration of these quotas. However, our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies and/or other trade disruptions. We may be unable to fill customer orders efficiently, which could harm customer satisfaction. If we are unable to efficiently process and fill customer orders, customers may cancel or refuse to accept orders, and customer satisfaction could be harmed. We are subject to, among other things: •failures in the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our customer service call centers or our sole distribution center in Mineral Wells, West Virginia, including system failures caused by telecommunications systems providers and order volumes that exceed our present telephone or Internet system capabilities; •delays or failures in the performance of third parties, such as shipping companies and the U.S. postal and customs services, including delays associated with labor disputes, labor union activity, inclement weather, natural disasters, health epidemics and possible acts of terrorism; and •disruptions or slowdowns in our order processing or fulfillment systems resulting from the recently increased security measures implemented by U.S. customs, or from homeland security measures, telephone or Internet down times, system failures, computer viruses, electrical outages, mechanical problems, human error or accidents, fire, natural disasters or comparable events. We have a liberal merchandise return policy, and we may experience a greater number of returns than we anticipate. As part of our customer service commitment, we maintain a liberal merchandise return policy that allows customers to return any merchandise, virtually at any time and for any reason, and regardless of condition. We make allowances in our financial statements for anticipated merchandise returns based on historical return rates and our future expectations. These allowances may be exceeded, however, by actual merchandise returns as a result of many factors, including changes in the merchandise mix, size and fit, actual or perceived quality, differences between the actual product and its presentation in our catalogs or on our website, timeliness of delivery, competitive offerings and consumer preferences or confidence. Any significant increase in merchandise returns or merchandise returns that exceed our allowances would result in adjustments to our sales return accrual and to cost of sales and could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our quarterly results of operations fluctuate and may be negatively impacted by a failure to predict sales trends and by seasonal influences. Our net sales, operating results, liquidity and cash flows have fluctuated, and will continue to fluctuate, on a quarterly basis, as well as on an annual basis, as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: •the number and timing of our full-line retail store openings; •the timing of our catalog mailings and the number of catalogs we mail; 19 •our ability to accurately estimate and accrue for merchandise returns and the costs of obsolete inventory disposition; •the timing of merchandise receiving and shipping, including any delays resulting from labor strikes or slowdowns, adverse weather conditions, health epidemics or national security measures; and •shifts in the timing of important holiday selling seasons relative to our fiscal quarters, including Valentine's Day, Easter, Mother's Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas, and the day of the week on which certain important holidays fall. Our results continue to depend materially on sales and profits from the November and December holiday shopping season. In anticipation of traditionally increased holiday sales activity, we incur certain significant incremental expenses, including the hiring of a substantial number of temporary employees to supplement our existing workforce. If, for any reason, we were to realize lower-than-expected sales or profits during the November and December holiday selling season, our financial condition, results of operations, including related gross margins, and cash flows for the entire fiscal year would be materially adversely affected. We face substantial competition from discount retailers in the women's apparel industry. We believe our customers are willing to pay slightly higher prices for our unique merchandise and superior customer service. However, we face substantial competition from discount retailers, such as Kohl's and Target, for basic elements in our merchandise lines, and our net sales may decline or grow more slowly if we are unable to differentiate our merchandise and shopping experience from these discount retailers. In addition, the retail apparel industry has experienced significant price deflation over the past several years largely due to the downward pressure on retail prices caused by discount retailers. We expect this price deflation to continue as a result of the expiration of quota restrictions on the importing of apparel into the United States from foreign countries that are members of the World Trade Organization. This price deflation may make it more difficult for us to maintain our gross margins and to compete with retailers that have greater purchasing power than we have. Furthermore, because we currently source a significant percentage of our merchandise through intermediaries and from suppliers and manufacturers located in the United States and Canada, where labor and production costs, on average, tend to be higher, our gross margins may be lower than those of competing retailers. Our success is dependent upon our senior management team. Our future success depends largely on the efforts of Dennis Pence, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Georgia Shonk-Simmons, President and Chief Merchandising Officer; Melvin Dick, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Dan Griesemer, Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing. The loss of any of these individuals or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, the location of our corporate headquarters in Sandpoint, Idaho may make it more difficult to replace key employees who leave us, or to add qualified employees we will need to manage our further growth. Prior to joining our company, Melvin Dick, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, served as the lead engagement partner for Arthur Andersen's audit of WorldCom's consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, and its subsequent review of WorldCom's condensed consolidated financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2002. The ongoing investigation of the WorldCom matter may require Mr. Dick's attention, which may impair his ability to devote his full time and attention to our company. Further, Mr. Dick's association with the WorldCom matter may adversely affect customers' or investors' perception of our company. 20 Lower demand for our merchandise could reduce our gross margins and cause us to slow our retail expansion. Our merchandise is comprised primarily of discretionary items, and demand for our merchandise is affected by a number of factors that influence consumer spending. Lower demand may cause us to move more full-price merchandise to clearance, which would reduce our gross margins, and could adversely affect our liquidity (including compliance with our debt covenants) and, therefore, slow the pace of our retail expansion. We have maintained conservative inventory levels, which we believe will make us less vulnerable to sales shortfalls. Conversely, if we elect to carry relatively low levels of inventory in anticipation of lower demand but demand is stronger than we anticipated, we may be forced to backorder merchandise, which may result in lost sales and lower customer satisfaction. Our tax collection policy may expose us to the risk that we may be assessed for unpaid taxes. Many states have attempted to require that out-of-state direct marketers and e-commerce retailers whose only contact with the taxing state are solicitations and delivery of purchased products through the mail or the Internet collect sales taxes on sales of products shipped to their residents. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that these states, absent congressional legislation, may not impose tax collection obligations on an out-of-state mail order or Internet company. Although we believe that we have collected sales tax where we are required to do so under existing law, state and local tax authorities may disagree, and we could be subject to assessments for uncollected sales taxes, as well as penalties and interest and demands for prospective collection of such taxes. Furthermore, if Congress enacts legislation permitting states to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state catalog or e-commerce businesses, or if we are otherwise required to collect additional sales taxes, such tax collection obligations may negatively affect customer response and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, as we open more retail stores, our tax collection obligations will increase significantly and complying with the greater number of state and local tax regulations to which we will be subject may strain our resources. Any determination that we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could have a negative impact on our stock price. We are applying significant management and financial resources to document, test, monitor and enhance our internal control over financial reporting in order to meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. For example, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective for fiscal 2004 as a result of a restatement of certain of our financial statements to correct an error relating to the recognition of rental expense, as described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary over time. We cannot be certain that our internal control systems will be adequate or effective in preventing fraud or human error. Any failure in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could have a material effect on our financial reporting or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations, which upon disclosure, could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated and has been and will continue to be significantly affected by, among other factors, our quarterly operating results, changes in any earnings estimates publicly announced by us or by analysts, customer response to our merchandise offerings, the size of our catalog mailings, the timing of our retail store openings or of important holiday seasons 21 relative to our fiscal periods, seasonal effects on sales and various factors affecting the economy in general. The reported high and low closing sale prices of our common stock were $5.05 per share and $2.39 per share, respectively, during the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, and were $6.54 per share and $2.60 per share, respectively, during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004. The reported high and low closing sale prices of our common stock were $20.58 per share and $6.63 per share, respectively, during the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005. In addition, the Nasdaq National Market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. Our largest stockholders may exert influence over our business regardless of the opposition of other stockholders or the desire of other stockholders to pursue an alternate course of action. Dennis Pence, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Ann Pence, our former Vice Chairman, have informed the company that they have an informal arrangement pursuant to which they have agreed to vote their shares together and, when selling shares, doing so in equal amounts. This arrangement is not in writing, and can be terminated at any time, and there is no assurance that Dennis Pence and Ann Pence will continue to act together with respect to their shares. Because of their informal arrangement, Dennis Pence and Ann Pence together may be deemed to beneficially own, directly and indirectly, approximately 40.2% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2004. Dennis Pence and Ann Pence acting together, or either of them acting independently, could have significant influence over any matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of our directors and approval of business combinations, and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The interests of Dennis Pence and Ann Pence may not always coincide with the interests of our other stockholders. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover and discourage, delay or prevent our stockholders from replacing or removing our current directors or management. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger with or acquisition of us, even where the stockholders may consider it to be favorable. These provisions could also prevent or hinder an attempt by our stockholders to replace our current directors and include: •providing for a classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms; •prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; •authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock; •limiting persons who can call special meetings of the Board of Directors or stockholders; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at a stockholders meeting. Because our Board of Directors appoints management, any inability to effect a change in our Board of Directors may also result in the entrenchment of management. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. The preceding provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change of control and prevent changes in our management. 22 