ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following factors could have a material and adverse impact on our business: A significant portion of our revenue has historically been derived from our operations in the Atlanta market. A significant portion of our business historically has been conducted in the Atlanta market. Net revenues earned from radio stations located in Atlanta represented 24%, 25% and 23% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to competing radio stations, satellite radio and other forms of media. The radio broadcasting industry is a highly competitive business. Our radio stations compete against other radio stations and other media (including new technologies and services that are being developed or introduced) for audience share and advertising revenue. Factors that are material to a station’s competitive position include management experience, the station’s audience share and rank in its market, transmitter power, assigned frequency, audience characteristics, local program acceptance and the number and characteristics of other stations in the market area. New technologies (such as satellite-delivered and portable digital audio players and hand-held programmable devices including iPods and cellular telephones) allow listeners to avoid traditional commercial advertisements and offer superior sound quality as compared to terrestrial radio broadcasts. In addition, recent consolidation in the radio broadcasting industry has resulted in major station groups packaging advertising inventory for sale to national advertisers, in competition with our business. Competition for advertising dollars in our markets could lead to lower advertising rates as we attempt to retain customers or may cause us to lose customers to our competitors who offer lower rates that we are unable or unwilling to match. No assurance can be given that any of our stations will be able to maintain or increase their current audience ratings or advertising revenue share. 20 Table of Contents COX RADIO / 2008 FORM 10-K Our acquisition strategy could be hampered by a lack of attractive opportunities or other risks associated with integrating the operations, systems and management of the radio stations we acquire. A principal component of our long-term business strategy is the acquisition of additional radio stations. We intend to continue to evaluate the acquisition of additional radio stations or radio station groups. There can be no assurance that future acquisitions will be available on attractive terms. In addition, there can be no assurance that any synergies or savings will be achieved as a result of any acquisitions, that the integration of new stations or management groups into our operations can be accomplished successfully or on a timely basis, that stations acquired for their growth potential will in fact grow or that other aspects of our acquisition strategy can be implemented. We must respond to the rapid changes in technology, services and standards that characterize our industry in order to remain competitive. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of competition from new technologies and services. We cannot assure you that we will have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies. Various new media technologies and services are being developed or introduced, including: • Satellite-delivered digital audio radio service, which offers subscriber-based satellite radio services with numerous niche formats; • Audio programming by cable systems, direct-broadcast satellite systems, personal communications systems, Internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats; • IBOC digital radio, which provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services; and • Low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies or regulatory change may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on maintaining our licenses with the FCC. We could be prevented from operating a radio station if we fail to maintain its license. The Communications Act, and FCC rules and policies require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of FCC licenses. The filing of petitions or complaints against FCC licensees could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, or refusing to grant, its consent to the assignment of licenses to or from an FCC licensee or the transfer of control of an FCC licensee. In certain circumstances, the Communications Act, and FCC rules and policies will operate to impose limitations on alien ownership and voting of our common stock. There can be no assurance that there will be no changes in the current regulatory scheme, the imposition of additional regulations or the creation of new regulatory agencies, which changes could restrict or curtail our ability to acquire, operate and dispose of stations or, in general, to compete profitably with other operators of radio and other media properties. Each of our radio stations operates pursuant to one or more licenses issued by the FCC. Under FCC rules, radio licenses are granted for a term of eight years. Our licenses expire at various times between the years 2011 and 2014. Although we will apply to renew these licenses, third parties may challenge our renewal applications. Other than the three pending licenses described under “Business – Federal Regulation of Radio Broadcasting – Newspaper/Broadcast Cross-Ownership Rule,” we are not aware of facts or circumstances that would prevent us from having our current licenses renewed. There can be no assurance that our pending licenses, or those that come up for renewal later, will be renewed or that renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our business and operations. Failure to obtain the renewal of any of our broadcast licenses or to obtain FCC approval for an assignment or transfer to us of a license in connection with a radio station acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, if we or any of our officers, directors or significant stockholders materially violates the FCC’s rules and regulations or the Communications Act, is convicted of a felony or is found to have engaged in unlawful anticompetitive conduct or fraud upon another government agency, the FCC may, in response to a petition from a third party or on its own initiative, in its discretion, commence a proceeding to impose sanctions upon us which could involve the imposition of monetary fines, the revocation of our broadcast licenses or other sanctions. If the FCC were to issue an order denying a license renewal application or revoking a license, we would be required to cease operating the applicable radio station only after we had exhausted all rights to administrative and judicial review without success. 21 Table of Contents COX RADIO / 2008 FORM 10-K There is significant uncertainty regarding the FCC’s media ownership rules, and such rules could restrict our ability to acquire radio stations. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. Among other things, the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies limit the number of broadcasting properties that any person or entity may own (directly or by attribution) in any market and require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of licenses. In December 2007, the FCC adopted a revision to the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, a decision that parties have challenged in court. We cannot predict what effect, if any, FCC media ownership rules, as ultimately adopted, may have on our ability or the ability of our competitors to acquire additional radio stations or on our ability to continue to hold the radio stations we currently own. The FCC has increased enforcement of its indecency rules against the broadcast industry. The FCC has enhanced its enforcement efforts relating to the regulation of indecency and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against a broadcast licensee who commits a “serious” indecency violation. In 2006, Congress dramatically increased the penalties for broadcasting indecent programming and potentially subjects broadcasters to license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast indecent material. In addition, the FCC’s heightened focus on the indecency regulatory scheme, against the broadcast industry generally, has encouraged third parties to oppose broadcaster license renewal applications and applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations. The global financial crisis and deteriorating U.S. economy may have an unpredictable and adverse impact on our business and financial condition. The recent global economic crisis has caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed-income markets. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. We derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of advertising time on our radio stations, and advertising tends to decline during economic recessions or downturns. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from local advertisers, our ability to generate advertising revenue in specific markets is directly affected by local or regional economic conditions. A continued recession, or a further downturn in the U.S. economy, or in the economy of any individual geographic market in which we own or operate stations, could have a significant effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and could negatively impact our ability to maintain our existing financial covenants under our bank credit facility and refinance our existing credit facility, which matures in July 2011. For more information about our credit facility, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Service.” Decreased spending by particular categories of advertisers can adversely affect our advertising revenues. Even in the absence of a general recession or downturn in the economy, an individual business sector (such as the automotive industry) that tends to spend more on advertising than other sectors could be forced to reduce its advertising expenditures if that sector experiences a downturn. If that sector’s spending represents a significant portion of our advertising revenues (such as the automotive industry), any reduction in its advertising expenditures may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key personnel could disrupt the management and operations of our business. Our business is managed by a small number of key management and operating personnel. In addition, some of our on-air personnel have significant loyal audiences in their respective markets and are sometimes significantly responsible for the ranking of a station and the ability of a station to sell advertising. Our loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel and to expand, train and manage our employee base. We have entered into agreements with some of our personnel that include provisions restricting their ability to compete with us under specified circumstances. Cox Enterprises can control matters on which our common stockholders may vote, and its interests may conflict with yours. Cox Enterprises, through wholly owned subsidiaries, owns approximately 77% of our outstanding common stock and has approximately 97% of the voting power of Cox Radio. Accordingly, Cox Enterprises has sufficient voting power to elect all the members of our board of directors and effect transactions without 22 Table of Contents COX RADIO / 2008 FORM 10-K the approval of our public stockholders, except for those limited transactions that require a separate class vote. The interests of Cox Enterprises, other subsidiaries of which operate businesses in other industries, including television broadcasting, broadband communications, auto auctions, Internet content development, newspapers and other print publications may from time to time diverge from our interests. In addition, from time to time, we enter into transactions with Cox Enterprises or its affiliates. For a summary of certain material transactions with Cox Enterprises, see Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Cox Enterprises’ interests could differ from ours with respect to business dealings with Cox Enterprises, including potential acquisitions of businesses or properties and the issuance of additional securities. Our Audit Committee consists of independent directors and addresses certain potential conflicts of interest and related party transactions that may arise between us and Cox Enterprises and its other affiliates. However, there can be no assurance that any conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. Anti-takeover and other provisions of our certificate of incorporation could delay or deter a change of control. Inability of stockholders to call special stockholders meeting; Cox Enterprises’ right to act without a meeting. Our certificate of incorporation provides that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by our board of directors. The principal effect of this provision is to prevent stockholders from forcing a special meeting. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that any action required by the Delaware general corporate law to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders, and any action which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders, may be taken without a meeting and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of record of shares of our outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. However, if stockholder action is taken by written consent, we, in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC, will be required to send each stockholder entitled to vote on the matter voted on, but whose consent was not solicited, a written information statement at least 20 calendar days prior to the earliest date on which the corporate action may be taken. Such information statement will contain information substantially similar to that which would have been contained in a proxy statement complying with Schedule 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Procedures for stockholder proposal. Our certificate of incorporation provides that a stockholder must furnish written notice to our corporate secretary of any nomination or business proposal to be brought before a stockholders meeting not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the meeting as originally scheduled. In the event that less than 40 days’ public notice of a meeting is given by us, a stockholder must furnish notice of a nomination or business proposal not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the mailing or the public disclosure of notice of the meeting date. These procedures prohibit last minute attempts by any stockholder to nominate a director or present a business proposal at an annual stockholders meeting. Foreign ownership. Our certificate of incorporation restricts the ownership, voting and transfer of our capital stock, including the Class A common stock and the Class B common stock, in accordance with the Communications Act and the rules of the FCC, to prohibit ownership of more than 25% of our outstanding capital stock (or more than 25% of the voting rights of our capital stock) by or for the account of aliens or corporations otherwise subject to domination or control by aliens. Our certificate of incorporation also prohibits any transfer of our capital stock that would cause us to violate this prohibition. In addition, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to adopt such provisions as it deems necessary to enforce these prohibitions, including the inclusion of a legend regarding restrictions on foreign ownership of our capital stock on the certificates representing such capital stock. The Class A common stock certificates contain a certification that must be executed by the transferee of any such certificate before transfers of the shares represented thereby may be made on our books. Such certification addresses whether such transferee, or any person or entity for whose account such shares will be held, is an alien. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that we reserve the right to refuse to honor any transfer of our capital stock which, in the judgment of us or our transfer agent, would or might constitute a violation of the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules and regulations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents COX RADIO / 2008 FORM 10-K 