Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains or incorporates a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industry and markets in which L-1 operates and management’s beliefs and assumptions. Any statements contained herein (including without limitation statements to the effect that management, we or L-1 “believes”, “expects”, “anticipates”, “plans” and similar expressions) that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements and should be read in conjunction with consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in this report. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, those set forth below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones L-1 faces. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known to L-1 or that the Company currently deems immaterial, 13 may also impair the business. L-1 expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law. Business Risks There are risks and uncertainties associated with the Safran transaction. There are risks and uncertainties associated with the Safran transaction, including that such transaction may not be consummated, or may not be consummated as currently anticipated, as a result of several potential risks, including but not limited to: (i) the inability to obtain approval in respect of the Committee on Foreign Review in the United States or to obtain such approval without conditions that are not currently anticipated; or (ii) the failure to satisfy the other conditions for closing set forth in the Merger Agreement. Under certain circumstances, if the Merger Agreement with Safran is terminated, we may be required to pay Safran a termination fee of $25.0 million or reimburse Safran for up to $12.5 million of Safran’s documented out-of-pocket expenses. If the merger agreement is terminated and all conditions to the consummation of the merger transaction have been satisfied other than those conditions related to regulatory approvals (and those to be satisfied immediately prior to the closing), Safran has agreed to pay the Company a termination fee of $75.0 million. Lawsuits have been filed and other lawsuits may be filed against us and Safran challenging the Safran merger and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief enjoining the Safran transaction, and an adverse ruling in any such lawsuit may prevent the Safran transaction from being completed. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Because we have consummated the BAE transaction, if we fail to consummate the merger with Safran, we will be required to continue to operate the Company without the Intel Business, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and share price. Our business could be adversely impacted as a result of uncertainty related to the Safran transaction. The Safran transaction (including the risks and uncertainties related to the consummation of the transaction) could cause disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles at the Company, which might adversely affect our ability to retain and hire key managers and other employees. Our customers and suppliers may experience uncertainty about the Company’s future and may seek alternative business relationships with third parties or seek to alter their business relationships with the Company. In addition, the attention of our management may be directed to transaction-related considerations and may be diverted from the day-to-day operations of our business. The occurrence of any of these events, individually or in combination, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and share price. The Merger Agreement also restricts us from engaging in certain activities and taking certain actions without Safran’s approval, which could adversely affect our ability to manage our operations effectively in light of changes in economic or market conditions or to execute our business strategy or prevent us from pursuing opportunities or other strategic alternatives that may arise prior to the closing of the transaction. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the merger with Safran, and many of these fees and costs are payable by us regardless of whether we consummate the transaction. In addition, our stock price rose upon announcement of the proposed merger with Safran and any failure to consummate the merger could result in a drop in our stock price. L-1 has a history of operating losses. L-1 has a history of operating losses before income taxes. The business operations began in 1993 and, except for 1996 and 2000, have resulted in losses before income taxes in each year, which have included significant asset impairments, amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation expense, and in 14 2010 strategic alternative costs. At December 31, 2010, L-1 had an accumulated deficit of approximately $643.9 million. L-1 will continue to invest in the development of secure credential and biometric technologies, as well as government services and will make significant capital expenditures to meet the requirements of recently awarded secure credentialing contracts. The need for these expenditures to grow the business will affect the ability to report operating profit and reduce the accumulated deficit. Over 94 percent of L-1 revenue from continuing operations is derived from government contracts which are often non-standard, involve competitive bidding, may be subject to cancellation with or without penalty and may produce volatility in earnings and revenue. More than 94 percent of L-1’s continuing business involves providing solutions and services under contracts with U.S. Federal, State, Local and foreign government agencies. Obtaining contracts from government agencies is challenging and government contracts often include provisions that are not standard in commercial transactions. For example, government contracts may: • Include provisions that allow the government agency to unilaterally terminate the contract without penalty under some circumstances. • Be subject to purchasing decisions of agencies that are subject to political considerations. • Include bonding requirements. • Be subject to onerous procurement procedures. • Be subject to cancellation or reduction if government funding becomes unavailable or is cut back. Securing government contracts can be a protracted process involving competitive bidding. In many cases, unsuccessful bidders may challenge contract awards, which can lead to increased costs, delays and possible loss of the contract for the winning bidder. Protests, and similar delays, regarding any future government contracts of a material nature that may be awarded to L-1 could result in materially adverse revenue volatility, making management of inventory levels, cash flows and profitability inherently difficult. Outright loss of any material government contract through the protest process or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on financial results and stock price. In addition, government contracts may specify performance criteria that must be satisfied before the customer accepts the products and services. Collection of accounts receivable may be dependent on meeting customer requirements, which may be unpredictable, subject to change by the customer, and may be misinterpreted by L-1 which could result in the incurrence of unexpected costs that may be uncompensated and could negatively affect profit margins and liquidity. Government contracts are subject to continued appropriations by Congress and availability of funding for State and Local programs. Reduced funding or changes in procurement policies that curtail the use of outside contractors could result in terminated, delayed or de-scoped contracts with L-1 and adversely affect the ability for L-1 to meet sales and earnings goals. For the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, U.S. Federal government agencies, directly or indirectly, accounted for 36 percent and 39 percent of L-1 consolidated revenues from continuing operations, respectively. Future sales under existing and future awards of U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations, which could be affected by current or future political and economic conditions. Failure to approve budgets or raise debt limits may result in a suspension of funding of government operations. In addition, while spending authorizations defense-related programs by the Federal government has increased in recent years, particularly after the 2001 terrorist attacks and more recently in support of U.S. war efforts in Southwest Asia, future levels of expenditures, mission priorities and authorizations for these programs may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where L-1 does not currently provide 15 products or services. Current Federal government spending levels for defense-related programs are in part related to the U.S. military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, and may not be sustainable, as a result of changes in government leadership, policies or priorities. Similar to Federal government contracts, State and Local government agency contracts may be contingent upon availability and appropriation of funds provided by Federal, State or Local entities. In the current economic and political environment, States may reduce or suspend expenditures which may result in cancellation or deferral of projects. State and Local law enforcement and other government agencies are subject to political, budgetary, purchasing and delivery constraints which may result in quarterly and annual revenue and operating results that may be irregular and difficult to predict. Such revenue volatility makes management of inventory levels, cash flows and profitability inherently difficult. In addition, if L-1 is successful in winning such procurements, there may be unevenness in delivery schedules, as well as potential delays and changes in the timing of deliveries and recognition of revenue, or cancellation of such procurements. The full amount of L-1 revenues reflected in backlog may not be realized, which could harm operations and significantly reduce future revenues. There can be no assurances that backlog estimates will result in actual revenues in any particular fiscal period because clients may modify or terminate projects and contracts and may decide not to exercise contract options or estimate of quantities may not materialize. L-1 backlog represents sales value of firm orders for products and services not yet delivered and, for long term executed contractual arrangements (contracts, subcontracts, and customer’s commitments), the estimated future sales value of estimated product shipments, transactions processed and services to be provided over the term of the contractual arrangements, including renewal options expected to be exercised. For contracts with indefinite quantities backlog reflects estimated quantities based on current activity levels. Backlog includes estimates of revenues that are dependent on future government appropriation, option exercise by clients and/or is subject to contract modification or termination. Due to current economic environment and potential spending constraints experienced by State and Local governments, in particular, realization of backlog may be adversely impacted. At December 31, 2010, L-1 backlog from continuing operations was approximately $0.9 billion of which approximately $282.0 million is expected to be realized in 2011. These estimates are based on L-1 experience under such contracts and similar contracts, and the Company believes such estimates to be reasonable in the circumstances. However, L-1 believes that the estimate of revenues reflected in backlog for the following twelve months will generally be more reliable than the estimate for periods thereafter. If L-1 does not realize a substantial amount of backlog, operations could be harmed and expected future revenues could be significantly reduced. Quarterly results are difficult to predict due to factors including long sales cycles; if quarterly financial expectations are missed, the L-1 stock price could decline. Quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuate from quarter to quarter. The sales cycle for solutions and services is typically long and subject to a number of significant risks and potential delays over which the Company has no or little control. While potential customers are evaluating L-1 products, the Company may incur substantial selling and marketing costs and expend significant management resources in an effort to obtain sales order and contracts that may never materialize. In addition, as operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels, fluctuations in revenues as a result of the timing of contract awards and the exercise of options and task orders can cause operating results to vary significantly between periods. Factors which may delay procuring decisions include: • Time required for a prospective customer to recognize the need for L-1 solutions. • Timing of appropriation of funds by governments. • Political and economic uncertainties. 16 • Customer requirements for customized features and functionalities. • Turnover of key personnel at existing and prospective customers. • Customer internal budgeting and processes. • Customer internal procedures for the approval of large contracts. • Protest processes affecting government contract awards which may be initiated by competitors. Due to the factors described above, operating results in some periods may not meet investor expectations. If this happens, the market price of L-1 common stock could be adversely impacted. Fluctuations in future quarterly operating results may also be caused by many other factors, including: • The size and timing of new contract awards and customer orders which may be received unevenly throughout a fiscal year. • The mix of revenues between solutions and services. • The application of new accounting standards or interpretations. • Cancellation or modification of contracts or changes in contract revenue estimates. • Contract performance delays. The Company must fund substantial capital expenditures for the secure credentialing business. The installation of secure credentialing systems requires significant capital expenditures. The need to fund such capital expenditures increased following the 2008 acquisition of the secure credentialing business of Digimarc. For the year ended December 31, 2010, capital expenditures were $45.0 million, as compared to $55.0 million in the prior year. Capital expenditures are expected to approximate $40.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2011. While L-1 expects to fund capital requirements primarily from operating cash flows and borrowings under its revolving credit facility, in the near term, cash otherwise available to fund strategic opportunities and repay long-term debt is reduced. At December 31, 2010, L-1 had cash and cash equivalents of $3.1 million and availability under its existing credit agreement of $68.9 million, subject to continuing compliance with covenants contained in the agreement. While the Company believes it has adequate capital resources to meet current working capital and capital expenditure requirements and has been successful in the past in obtaining financing for acquisitions, L-1 expects to have increased capital needs as it continues to expand its business. In addition, if the Safran transaction is not consummated, the Company may be unsuccessful in raising additional financing to fund growth or it may have difficulty in obtaining financing at attractive rates or on terms that are not excessively dilutive to existing shareholders. Failure to secure additional financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on its growth, financial performance and stock price and could require the Company to delay or abandon expansion. Covenants in the Company’s credit facility may restrict financial and operating flexibility and the Company may not be able to comply with its financial covenants. L-1 is a party to a credit agreement which, after the repayment of the term loans in February 2011, provides for up to $135.0 million in borrowings through 2013, of which $68.9 million was available at December 31, 2010, subject to continuing compliance with debt covenants. Under the agreement, L-1 is required to maintain specific financial covenants related to leverage and debt service coverages as of the end of each fiscal quarter. On August 30, 2010, L-1 entered into an amendment and consent (the “Third Amendment”) to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of August 5, 2008, among L-1 Identity Solutions Operating Company, the Company, Bank of America, N.A., the Lenders party thereto, Wachovia Bank, National Association, Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets LLC (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”). The Third Amendment extended the time period during which 17 previously modified financial covenants will apply under the Credit Agreement due to the Company having entered into a definitive agreement providing for the sale of all or substantially all of the assets and operations of the Company and its subsidiaries in connection with its strategic alternatives review on September 19, 2010. The Third Amendment provides that L-1 must maintain the minimum Consolidated Debt Service Coverage Ratio of 1.65 to 1.00 as of the end of the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, after which L-1 must maintain a minimum Consolidated Debt Service Coverage Ratio of 2.25 to 1.00 as of the end of each fiscal quarter thereafter, and L-1 must maintain a maximum Consolidated Leverage Ratio of 3.85 to 1.00 as of the end of the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, after which L-1 must maintain a maximum Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall return to 2.75 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter thereafter. At December 31, 2010 the Company’s Consolidated Debt Service Coverage Ratio was 1.79:1.00 and the Consolidated Leverage Ratio was 3.50:1.00; accordingly the Company was in compliance with the modified financial covenants. After giving effect to the sale of the Intel Businesses to BAE and the required prepayment of L-1’s term loan facility using the net proceeds of such sale, the Company believes it will achieve compliance with the financial covenants applicable in the first quarter of 2011 and thereafter. The ability to satisfy these financial ratios in the future can be affected by events beyond the Company’s control and it cannot assure meeting these ratios. If the merger with Safran does not occur, the Company expects to refinance its debt on a long term basis or otherwise take other actions to repay or amend the term loans and other debt. There is no assurance that a refinancing or other action to repay or modify the loan can be successfully executed. The credit agreement also places limitations on additional borrowings, mergers and related-party transactions, on payment of dividends and with respect to capital expenditures. Borrowings under the agreement are collateralized by Company’s assets and bear interest at the Eurodollar Rate, or the lender’s base rate, plus market-rate spreads that are determined by reference to the Company’s leverage ratio. Default under the credit facility could allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. L-1 has pledged substantially all of its assets to secure the debt under the credit facility. If the lenders declare amounts outstanding under the credit facility to be due, the lenders could proceed against those assets. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on the business if the creditors determine to exercise their rights. The Company also may incur future debt obligations that might subject L-1 to restrictive covenants that could affect financial and operational flexibility, restrict ability to pay dividends on common stock, or subject L-1 to other events of default. L-1 is subject to government regulation and failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject the Company to penalties that may restrict its ability to conduct business. L-1 is affected by and must comply with various government regulations that impact operating costs, profit margins and the internal organization and operation of the business. Failure to comply with applicable regulations, rules and approvals could result in the imposition of penalties, the loss of government contracts or disqualification as a U.S. government contractor, all of which could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations. Among the most significant regulations affecting the business are: • Export control regulations. • Federal Acquisition Regulation, or the FAR, and agency regulations supplementing the FAR, which comprehensively regulate the formation and administration of, and performance under government contracts. • Truth in Negotiations Act that requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations. • Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. • Laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. 18 • Laws and regulation established to protect the privacy and personal information of employees and third parties. These regulations affect how L-1 and its customers do business and, in some instances, impose added costs to L-1. Any changes in applicable laws and regulations could restrict the ability for L-1 to conduct business. Any failure by L-1 to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions or suspension, debarment or disqualification from contracting with the Federal, State and Local governments. The Company could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. government. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. The U.S. government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s management, purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, accounting, and information systems. If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, L-1 may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, L-1 could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made. Biometric technologies have not yet achieved widespread commercial acceptance and the strategy of expanding the biometric business could adversely affect L-1 business operations and financial conditions. L-1’s strategy includes the enhancement of the Company’s leadership in biometric technologies. Pursuing this strategy involves risks. For example, to date biometric technologies have not yet gained widespread commercial acceptance. Although there has been more commercial activity recently, there is no assurance that this activity will continue or expand. Some of the obstacles to the use of biometric technologies include a perceived loss of privacy and public perceptions as to the usefulness of biometric solutions. Whether the market for biometric technologies and solutions expands is dependent upon factors such as: • National or international events which may affect the need for or interest in biometric solutions or services. • The cost, performance and reliability of the solutions and services and those of the competition. • Customer perception of the perceived benefit of biometric solutions and services and satisfaction with solutions and services. • Public perceptions regarding the confidentiality of private information. • Proposed or enacted legislation related to privacy of information. • Marketing efforts and publicity regarding these solutions and services. • Competition from non-biometric technologies that provide more affordable, but less robust, authentication (such as tokens and smart cards). • Privacy and legal challenges relating to biometric identifiers driven by private citizens and advocacy groups. • The potential for changes in government policy regarding privacy issues with a new executive branch administration. L-1 does not know when, if ever, biometric solutions and services will gain widespread commercial acceptance. Certain groups have publicly objected to the use of biometric solutions and services for some applications on civil liberties grounds and legislation has been proposed to regulate the use of biometric security solutions. Biometric technologies have been the focus of organizations and individuals seeking to 19 curtail or eliminate such technologies on the grounds that they may be used to diminish personal privacy rights. If such initiatives result in restrictive legislation, the market for biometric solutions may be adversely affected. Even if biometric technologies gain wide market acceptance, L-1 biometric solutions and services may not adequately address the requirements of the market and may not gain widespread commercial acceptance. L-1 faces intense competition that could result in lower revenues and higher R&D expenditures and could adversely affect results of the Company’s operations. Since the events of September 11, 2001 regulatory and policy changes in the U.S. and abroad have heightened interest in the use of biometric security solutions, and L-1 expects competition in this field, which is already substantial, to intensify. Competitors are developing and marketing semiconductor ultrasonic and optically based direct contact fingerprint image capture devices, or retinal blood vessel, iris pattern, hand geometry, voice or various types of facial structure solutions. L-1 solutions also compete with non-biometric technologies which may be less costly, such as certificate authorities and traditional keys, cards, surveillance systems and passwords. Widespread adoption of one or more of these technologies or approaches in the markets targeted could significantly reduce the potential market for L-1 systems and solutions. Some competitors have significantly more resources than L-1. Competitors may introduce products that are more price competitive, have increased performance or functionality or incorporate technological advances that L-1 has not yet developed or implemented. To remain competitive, L-1 must continue to develop, market and sell new and enhanced solutions at competitive prices, which will require significant research and development expenditures. If L-1 does not develop new and enhanced solutions or if the Company is not able to invest adequately in research and development activities, the business, financial condition and results of operations could be severely and negatively impacted. L-1 must keep pace with changing technologies or risk losing existing and new customers. In order to compete effectively in the biometrics market, L-1 must continually design, develop and market new and enhanced products. Future success will depend, in part, upon the Company’s ability to address the changing and sophisticated needs of customers. Frequently, technical development programs in the biometric industry require assessments to be made of the future directions of technology and technology markets generally, which are inherently risky and difficult to predict. L-1 may not be able to accurately predict which technologies customers will support. If the Company fails to choose correctly among technical directions, or fail to offer innovative solutions at competitive prices in a timely manner, customers may forego purchases of L-1 solutions and purchase those of competitors. Security breaches in systems sold or maintained by L-1 could result in the disclosure of sensitive government information or private personal information that could result in the loss of customers and negative publicity. Many of the systems included in L-1 solutions manage private personal information and protect information involved in sensitive government functions. The protective security measures that are used in these systems may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt business, damage reputation, and expose L-1 to litigation and liability. A party that is able to circumvent protective security measures used in these systems could misappropriate sensitive or proprietary information or cause interruptions or otherwise damage L-1 products, services and reputation, and the property and privacy of customers. If unintended parties obtain sensitive data and information, or create bugs or viruses or otherwise sabotage the functionality of systems, L-1 may receive negative publicity, incur liability to customers or lose the confidence of customers, any of which may cause the termination or modification of contracts. Further, insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses and liabilities that may result from such events. L-1 may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect the Company against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by the occurrence of any such breaches. In addition, 20 protective or remedial measures may not be available at a reasonable price or at all, or may not be entirely effective. Reliance on external suppliers and contract manufacturers may result in delays and loss of sales or customers. The lead-time for ordering certain products and materials and for building many of L-1 products included in the Company’s solutions can be many months. As a result, L-1 must order such products and materials based on forecasted demand. If demand for solutions lags significantly behind forecasts, L-1 may purchase more products than the Company can sell, resulting in increased cash needs and write-downs of obsolete or excess inventory. In addition, if the delivered product purchases are delayed, the Company may lose customers and sales. L-1 relies on contract manufacturers to produce hardware products under short term manufacturing arrangements. Although L-1 believes it can find alternative sources for the manufacturing of hardware, any disruption of contractual arrangements could result in delaying deliveries or in the loss of sales. The Company obtains certain hardware and services, as well as software applications, from a limited group of suppliers. The reliance on these suppliers involves risks, including reduced control over quality and delivery schedules. Any financial instability of suppliers could result in having to find new suppliers. L-1 may experience delays in manufacturing and deliveries of products and services to customers if the Company loses its sources or if supplies and services delivered from these sources are delayed, which could result in the loss of sales or customers. The market for L-1 solutions is still developing and if the biometrics industry adopts standards or a platform different from L-1’s, then the Company’s competitive position would be negatively affected. The market for identity solutions is still developing. The evolution of this market may result in the development of different technologies and industry standards that are not compatible with L-1’s current solutions, products or technologies. Several organizations, such as the International Civil Aviation Organization, sets standards for travel documents that its member States then put into effect, and the National Institute for Standards and Testing, which is part of the U.S. Department of Commerce, set standards for biometrics to be used in identification and documentation. Although L-1 believes that its biometric technologies comply with existing standards for finger, face and iris recognition, these standards may change and any standards adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with the L-1 business model and current or future solutions, products and services. The L-1 plan to pursue sales in international markets may be limited by risks related to conditions in such markets. For the year ended December 31, 2010, L-1 derived approximately 16 percent of total revenues of continuing operations from international sales and the Company’s strategy is to expand its international operations. There is a risk that the Company may not be able to successfully market, sell and deliver solutions, products and services in foreign countries. Risks inherent in marketing, selling and delivering products in foreign and international markets, each of which could have a severe negative impact on financial results and stock price, include those associated with: • Regional economic or political conditions. • Delays in or absolute prohibitions on exporting solutions, products and services resulting from export restrictions for certain products and technologies. • Loss of, or delays in importing products, services and intellectual property developed abroad, resulting from unstable or fluctuating social, political or governmental conditions. • Fluctuations in foreign currencies related to the U.S. dollar. 21 • Loss of revenue, property (including intellectual property) and equipment from expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, terrorism, criminal acts and other political and social risks. • Liabilities resulting from any unauthorized actions of local resellers or agents under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or local anti-corruption statutes. • Overlap of different tax structures. • Risks of increases in taxes and other government fees. • Involuntary renegotiations of contracts with foreign governments. L-1 expects that it will have increased exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. As of December 31, 2010, accumulated other comprehensive gain includes foreign currency translation gains of approximately $0.7 million. In addition, L-1 has significant Japanese Yen denominated transactions with Japanese suppliers of hardware and consumables for the delivery to customers. Fluctuations in foreign currencies, including the Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar, Indian Rupee and the Euro could result in unexpected fluctuations to results of operations, which could be material and adverse. If L-1 does not successfully expand direct sales and services organizations and partnering arrangements, the Company may not be able to increase sales to meet L-1’s growth expectations. L-1 services are sold and licensed through the Company’s direct business development and sales organization. Future success depends on substantially increasing the size and scope of the direct business development and sales force and partnering arrangements, both domestically and internationally. L-1 may face intense competition for personnel, and the Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to attract, assimilate or retain additional qualified business development and sales personnel on a timely basis. Moreover, given the large-scale deployment required by some customers, L-1 may need to hire and retain a number of highly trained customer service and support personnel. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to increase the size of the customer service and support organization on a timely basis to provide the high quality of support required by its customers. The ability to add additional business development and sales and customer service personnel could result in customer dissatisfaction and loss of customers. The Company relies in part upon system integrators, Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and distribution partners to sell some L-1 solutions, technologies and services; the Company may be adversely affected if those parties do not actively promote the products or pursue installations that do not use L-1 solutions, technologies and services. A portion of L-1 revenue comes from sales to partners including OEMs, systems integrators, distributors and resellers. Some of these relationships have not been formalized in a detailed contract, and may be subject to termination at any time. Even where these relationships are formalized in a detailed contract, the agreements can often be terminated with little or no notice and subject to periodic amendment. L-1 intends to continue to seek strategic relationships to distribute, license and sell certain of L-1 products. However the Company may not be able to negotiate acceptable relationships in the future and cannot predict whether current or future relationships will be successful. If solutions, systems and products are not delivered in a timely fashion or do not perform as promised, L-1 could experience increased costs, lower margins, liquidated damage payment obligations and reputational harm. L-1 often provides complex systems that are required to operate in difficult or sensitive circumstances. The development of such complex systems may be subject to delays or failure to meet performance requirements to customer specifications. The negative effects of any delay or failure to deliver to meet performance requirements could be exacerbated if the delay or failure occurs in systems that provide personal 22 security, secure sensitive computer data, authorize significant financial transactions or perform other functions where a security breach could have significant consequences. If a product launch is delayed or is the subject of an availability shortage because of problems with the Company’s ability to manufacture or assemble the product successfully on a timely basis, or if a product or service otherwise fails to meet performance criteria, L-1 may lose revenue opportunities entirely and/or experience delays in revenue recognition associated with a product or service in addition to incurring higher operating expenses during the period required to correct the defects. There is a risk that for unforeseen reasons L-1 may be required to repair or replace a substantial number of systems in use or to reimburse customers for systems that fail to work or meet strict performance criteria. From time to time, in certain critical or complex sale or licensing transactions, L-1 may be compelled to accept liability provisions that vary from the Company’s preferred contracting model. There is a risk that in certain contracts and circumstances L-1 may not be successful in adequately minimizing product and related liabilities or that the protections negotiated will not ultimately be deemed enforceable. L-1 carries product liability insurance, but existing coverage may not be adequate to cover potential claims. Although the Company will deploy back-up systems, the failure of products to perform as promised could result in increased costs, lower margins, liquidated damage payment obligations and harm to reputation. This could result in contract terminations and have a material adverse effect on business and financial results. Failure to maintain the proprietary nature of L-1 technology, intellectual property and manufacturing processes could have a material adverse affect on the business and the Company’s ability to effectively compete. L-1 principally relies upon patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and contract law to establish and protect proprietary rights. There is a risk that claims allowed on any patents or trademarks held by L-1 may not be broad enough to protect the Company’s technology. In addition, patents or trademarks may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and L-1 cannot be certain that the rights granted there under will provide competitive advantages. Moreover, any current or future issued or licensed patents, or trademarks, or currently existing or future developed trade secrets or know-how may not afford sufficient protection against competitors with similar technologies or processes, and the possibility exists that certain of already issued patents or trademarks may infringe upon third party patents or trademarks or be designed around by others. In addition, there is a risk that others may independently develop proprietary technologies and processes, which are the same as, substantially equivalent or superior to L-1, or become available in the market at a lower price. L-1 may be required to expend significant resources to monitor and protect intellectual property rights. The Company may have to litigate to enforce patents or trademarks or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights. Litigation could be very costly and divert management’s attention. An adverse outcome in any litigation may have a severe negative effect on financial results and stock price. To determine the priority of inventions, L-1 may participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or oppositions in foreign patent and trademark offices, which could result in substantial cost and limitations on the scope or validity of patents or trademarks. In addition, foreign laws treat the protection of proprietary rights differently from laws in the United States and may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. The failure of foreign laws or judicial systems to adequately protect L-1’s proprietary rights or intellectual property, including intellectual property developed on the Company’s behalf by foreign contractors or subcontractors may have a material adverse effect on the L-1 business, operations, financial results and stock price. 23 Legal claims regarding infringement by L-1 or suppliers of third party intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs, diversion of managerial resources and reputational harm. Although L-1 believes that its solutions, products and services do not infringe currently existing and validly issued intellectual property rights of others, the Company might not be able to defend successfully against a third-party infringement claim. A successful infringement claim against L-1, its customers or suppliers could subject the Company to: • Liability for damages and litigation costs, including attorneys’ fees. • Lawsuits that prevent L-1 from further use of the intellectual property. • License intellectual property from a third party that could include significant licensing fees. • Develop a non-infringing alternative which could be costly and delay projects. • Indemnify clients with respect to losses incurred as a result of the alleged infringement. • Establish alternative sources for products supplied to L-1 by third parties. Failure to prevail against any third party infringement claim could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results. Even if L-1 is not found liable in a claim for intellectual property infringement, such a claim could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources and management attention, termination of customer contracts and harm to the Company’s reputation. L-1 faces inherent product liability or other liability risks that could result in large claims against the Company. L-1 has inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other liability claims resulting from the use of its products, especially to the extent customers may depend on L-1 products in public safety situations that may involve physical harm or even death to individuals, as well as exposure to potential loss or damage to property. Despite quality control systems and inspection, there remains an ever-present risk of an accident resulting from a faulty manufacture or maintenance of products, or an act of an agent outside of the Company’s or supplier’s control. Even if L-1 products perform properly, the Company may become subject to claims and costly litigation due to the catastrophic nature of the potential injury and loss. A product liability claim, or other legal claims based on theories including personal injury or wrongful death, made against L-1 could adversely affect operations and financial condition. Although L-1 may have insurance to cover product liability claims, the amount of coverage may not be sufficient. L-1 is dependent on a small number of individuals and if the Company loses key personnel, the business will be adversely affected. If the Safran transaction is not completed, much of L-1’s future success depends on the continued service and availability of senior management, including the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert V. LaPenta, and other members of the executive team. These individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with regards to advanced technology identity solutions. The loss of any of these individuals could severely harm the business. L-1 also is highly dependent on the ability to retain, hire and motivate talented highly skilled personnel. Experienced personnel in the advanced technology identity solutions industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. If L-1 is unable to successfully attract, retain and motivate key personnel, the business may be severely harmed. If L-1 fails to recruit and retain skilled employees or employees with the necessary security clearances, the Company may not be able to perform under government services contracts or win new business. To be competitive, L-1 must have employees with advanced information technology and technical services skills that work well with customers in a government or defense-related environment. Often, these employees require some of the highest security clearances in the United States. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If L-1 is unable to recruit and 24 retain a sufficient number of these employees, the ability to maintain and grow the business could be negatively impacted. Certain L-1 shareholders have significant relationships with the Company that could result in actions taken that are not supported by unaffiliated shareholders. In connection with the Aston investment in the Company, Aston became the largest shareholder of L-1, currently owning approximately 8.1 percent of L-1’s outstanding common stock. As a result, Aston (together with its affiliate, L-1 Investment Partners LLC) has an influence on matters requiring approval by shareholders, including the election of directors and most corporate actions, such as mergers and acquisitions. In addition, L-1 has significant relationships within L-1 Investment Partners LLC and Aston including Mr. Robert V. LaPenta, founder and Chief Executive Officer of L-1 Investments Partners LLC who is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and President of L-1. Mr. James DePalma, Mr. Joseph Paresi and Ms. Doni Fordyce are affiliates of L-1 Investment Partners LLC and Aston, serve as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing and Sales Officer, and Executive Vice President of Corporate Communications, respectively. L-1 has entered into certain transactions with Aston, L-1 Investment Partners and Mr. LaPenta, including a sublease of office space from L-1 Investment Partners, an agreement in principle to purchase a portfolio Company of Aston at fair market value (if and as approved by the Board of Directors), and a private placement issuance of securities to Mr. LaPenta in connection with his participation in L-1’s $120 million private placement to fund in part the acquisition of the ID Systems business of Digimarc. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Related Party Transactions” for a more detailed description of these transactions. Mr. LaPenta also has a significant personal investment in L-1 common stock through his controlling interest in Aston and his direct ownership which, at December 31, 2010 considered in the aggregate, represented beneficial ownership of approximately 14.6 percent of the outstanding L-1 common stock. The concentration of large percentages of ownership in any single shareholder, or in any series of single shareholders, may influence the likelihood or timing of any change in control of the Company. Additionally, the sale of a significant number of shares in the open market by single shareholders or otherwise could adversely affect the Company’s stock price. In connection with the Safran transaction, Mr. LaPenta and Aston entered into a voting agreement under which they agreed to vote all shares beneficially owned by them in favor of the Safran transaction and not to transfer their shares other than pursuant to the Safran transaction, in each case subject to limited exceptions. Acquisition Related Risks Integration of acquired businesses may be difficult to achieve and will consume significant financial and managerial resources, which may adversely affect operations. The L-1 operating philosophy is to let acquired businesses operate in an autonomous manner subject to corporate oversight but integrating and rationalizing duplicative functions to achieve revenue and cost synergies. The Company may encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays in integrating the operations recently acquired and future acquisitions such as: • Exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies or assets. • Higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses. • Assumption of ongoing litigation matters that may be highly complex and involve significant time, cost and expense. • Potential conflicts between business cultures. • Adverse changes in business focus perceived by third-party constituencies. • Disruption of ongoing business. 25 • Potential conflicts in distribution, marketing or other important relationships. • Potential constraints of management resources. • Failure to maximize financial and strategic position by the successful incorporation of acquired technology. • Failure to realize acquired technology potential, complete product development, or obtain / secure appropriate protection of intellectual property rights. • Loss of key employees and/or the diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns. The geographic distance between acquired businesses and their respective offices and operations increases the risk that the integration will not be completed successfully or in a timely and cost-effective manner. L-1 may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the integration of the companies. The simultaneous integration of these acquisitions may place additional strain on L-1 resources and increase the risk that business may be adversely affected by the disruption caused by the acquisitions. The strategy contemplates acquiring additional businesses, the integration of which may consume significant financial and managerial resources, and could have a severe negative impact on the business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions could result in future impairment and other charges, which could adversely affect operational results. L-1 recorded impairment charges aggregating $3.1 million in 2010 and $528.6 million in 2008 for goodwill and long-lived assets, primarily related to the biometric businesses. At December 31, 2010, goodwill, intangible assets and property and equipment related to continuing operations amounted to $700.3 million, $61.3 million and $126.2 million, respectively. Because goodwill represents a residual after the purchase price is allocated to the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, it is difficult to quantify the factors that contribute to the recorded amounts and subsequent impairments, if any. Nevertheless, management believes that the following factors have contributed to the amount recorded: • Technological development capabilities and intellectual capital. • Expected significant growth in revenues and profits from the expanding market in identity solutions. • Expected synergies resulting from providing multi modal product offerings to existing customer base and to new customers of the combined Company. The recorded amounts at the purchase date for goodwill and other intangible assets are estimates at a point in time and are based on valuations and other analyses of fair value that require significant estimates and assumptions about future events, including but not limited to projections of revenues, market growth, demand, technological developments, political developments, government policies, among other factors, which are derived from information obtained from independent sources, as well as the management of the acquired businesses and business plans for the acquired businesses or intellectual property. If estimates and assumptions used to initially record goodwill and intangible assets do not materialize, or unanticipated adverse developments or events occur, ongoing reviews of the carrying amounts of such goodwill and intangible assets may result in impairments which will require L-1 to record a charge in the period in which such an impairment is identified, and could have a severe negative impact on its business and financial statements. If the L-1 stock price were to decrease materially from current levels and remain depressed for a sustained period of time, the Company may be required to assess the carrying amount of goodwill and long-lived assets of reporting units before the next scheduled annual impairment test. If at that time the estimated fair values of the reporting units are less than their respective carrying amounts, L-1 would need to determine whether goodwill and long-lived assets would be impaired. Moreover, if economic conditions deteriorate and capital markets conditions negatively impact the valuation of enterprises, the estimated fair values of L-1 reporting units could be adversely impacted, which could result in future impairments. 26 If L-1 does not achieve expected benefits from completed acquisitions, the price of L-1 common stock could decline. L-1 expects that its consummated acquisitions will enhance leadership in the identity solutions industry through the combination of respective technologies. However, the combination of such technologies might not meet the demands of the customers. If L-1 technologies fail to meet such demand, customer acceptance of L-1 biometric products could decline, which would have an adverse effect on results of operations and financial conditions. Further, L-1 expects that the additions to solutions offerings will extend current market reach and provide a critical component to the Company’s comprehensive offering for new markets in need of identity solutions. However, there can be no assurance that current customers or customers in new markets will be receptive to these additional offerings. Further, L-1 might not be able to market successfully its products and services to the customers of the businesses acquired. If L-1 solutions offerings and services fail to meet the demands of customers, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. There is also a risk that L-1 will not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions as rapidly as, or to the extent, anticipated by financial or industry analysts, or that such analysts will not perceive the same benefits to the acquisitions as does the Company. If these risks materialize, the L-1 stock price could be adversely affected. 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved staff comments. 