ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) provides a “safe harbor” for “forward-looking statements” to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as such information is identified as forward-looking and is accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statement(s). Ingram Micro desires to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Act. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, periodic press releases, as well as other public documents and statements, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act, including, but not limited to, management’s expectations for process improvement; competition; revenues, expenses and other operating results or ratios; economic conditions; liquidity; capital requirements; and exchange rate fluctuations. Forward-looking statements also include any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance, or achievements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “project,” “continue,” “plans,” “aims,” “intends,” “likely,” or other similar words or phrases. We disclaim any duty to update any forward-looking statements. In addition, our representatives participate from time to time in: • speeches and calls with market analysts, • conferences, meetings and calls with investors and potential investors in our securities, and • other meetings and conferences. Some of the information presented in these calls, meetings and conferences may be forward-looking within the meaning of the Act. Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Ingram Micro. In this regard, from time to time, we have failed to meet consensus analyst earnings estimates. In future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. The following factors (in addition to other possible factors not listed) could affect our actual results and cause these results to differ materially from past results or from the results contemplated in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Because of our narrow gross margins, the impact of the risk factors stated below may magnify the impact on our operating results and financial condition. We continue to experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. Our competitors include regional, national, and international distributors, as well as suppliers that employ a direct-sales model. As a result of intense price competition in the IT products and services distribution industry, our gross margins have historically been narrow and we expect them to continue to be narrow in the future. In addition, when there is overcapacity in our industry, our competitors may reduce their prices in response to this overcapacity. We offer no assurance that we will not lose market share, or that we will not be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to the actions of our competitors and thereby experience a further reduction in our gross margins. Furthermore, to remain competitive we may be forced to offer more credit or extended payment terms to our customers. This could increase our required capital, financing costs, and the amount of our bad debt expenses. We have also initiated and expect to continue to initiate other business activities and may face competition from companies with more experience and/or from new entries in those new markets. As we enter new business areas, we may encounter increased competition from current competitors and/or from new competitors, some of which may be our current customers or suppliers, which may negatively impact our sales or profitability. 11 Table of Contents We have made and expect to continue to make investments in new business strategies and initiatives, including acquisitions, which could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our operating results. We have invested and may invest in the future in new business strategies or engage in acquisitions that complement our strategic direction. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management’s attention away from normal business operations; insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy; difficulty in the integration of new employees, business systems and technology; inability to adapt to challenges of a new market; exposure to new regulations; and issues not discovered in our due diligence process. These factors could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. We operate a global business that exposes us to risks associated with international activities. We have local sales offices and/or sales representatives in over 30 countries, and sell our products and services to resellers in more than 140 countries. A large portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations. As a result, our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including trade protection laws, policies and measures; tariffs; export license requirements; economic and labor conditions; political or social unrest; economic instability or natural disasters in a specific country or region, such as hurricanes and tsunamis; environmental and trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements; health or similar issues such as the outbreak of the avian flu; tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries); difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currency in which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased, including devaluation and revaluation of local currency. We manage our exposure to fluctuations in the value of currencies and interest rates using a variety of financial instruments. However, we may not be able to adequately mitigate all foreign currency related risks. We are dependent on a variety of information systems and a failure of these systems as well as infrastructure could disrupt our business and harm our reputation and net sales. We depend on a variety of information systems for our operations, particularly our centralized IMpulse information processing system, which supports operational functions that include inventory management, order processing, shipping, receiving, and accounting. At the core of IMpulse is on-line, real-time distribution software, which supports basic order entry and processing and customers’ shipments and returns. Although we have not in the past experienced material system-wide failures or downtime of IMpulse or any of our other information systems, we have experienced failures in IMpulse in certain specific geographies. Failures or significant downtime for IMpulse could prevent us from taking customer orders, printing product pick-lists, and/or shipping product. It could also prevent customers from accessing our price and product availability information. From time to time we may acquire other businesses having information systems and records, which may be converted and integrated into IMpulse or other Ingram Micro information systems. This can be a lengthy and expensive process that results in a material diversion of resources from other operations. In addition, because IMpulse is comprised of a number of legacy, internally developed applications, it can be harder to upgrade, and may not be adaptable to commercially available software. Particularly as our needs or technology in general evolve, we may experience greater than acceptable difficulty or cost in upgrading IMpulse, or we may be required to replace IMpulse entirely. We also rely on the Internet for a significant percentage of our orders and information exchanges with our customers. The Internet and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, some of which were caused by organized attacks. In addition, some websites have experienced security breakdowns. To date, our website has not experienced any material breakdowns, disruptions or breaches in security; however, we cannot assure that this will not occur in the future. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, this could harm our relationship with our customers or suppliers. Disruption of our website or the Internet in general could impair our order processing or more generally prevent our customers and suppliers from accessing information. This could cause us to lose business. We believe that customer information systems and product ordering and delivery systems, including Internet-based systems, are becoming increasingly important in the distribution of technology products and services. As a result, we are continually enhancing our customer information systems by adding new features, 12 Table of Contents including on-line ordering through the Internet. However, we offer no assurance that competitors will not develop superior customer information systems or that we will be able to meet evolving market requirements by upgrading our current systems at a reasonable cost, or at all. Our inability to develop competitive customer information systems or upgrade our current systems could cause our business and market share to suffer. Terminations of a supply or services agreement or a significant change in supplier terms or conditions of sale could negatively affect our operating margins, revenue or the level of capital required to fund our operations. A significant percentage of our net sales relates to products sold to us by relatively few suppliers or publishers. As a result of such concentration risk, terminations of supply or services agreements or a significant change in the terms or conditions of sale from one or more of our partners could negatively affect our operating margins, revenues or the level of capital required to fund our operations. Our suppliers have the ability to make, and in the past have made, rapid and significantly adverse changes in their sales terms and conditions, such as reducing the amount of price protection and return rights as well as reducing the level of purchase discounts and rebates they make available to us. In most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with suppliers. In certain product categories, such as systems, limited price protection or return rights offered by suppliers may have a bearing on the amount of product we may be willing to stock. We expect restrictive supplier terms and conditions to continue in the foreseeable future. Our inability to pass through to our reseller customers the impact of these changes, as well as our failure to develop systems to manage ongoing supplier pass-through programs, could cause us to record inventory write-downs or other losses and could have a material negative impact on our gross margins. We receive purchase discounts and rebates from suppliers based on various factors, including sales or purchase volume and breadth of customers. These purchase discounts and rebates may affect gross margins. Many purchase discounts from suppliers are based on percentage increases in sales of products. Our operating results could be negatively impacted if these rebates or discounts are reduced or eliminated or if our vendors significantly increase the complexity of process and costs for us to receive such rebates. Our ability to obtain particular products or product lines in the required quantities and to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is critical to our success. The IT industry experiences significant product supply shortages and customer order backlogs from time to time due to the inability of certain suppliers to supply certain products on a timely basis. As a result, we have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, short-term shortages of specific products. In addition, suppliers who currently distribute their products through us may decide to distribute, or to substantially increase their existing distribution, through other distributors, their own dealer networks, or directly to resellers or end-users. If suppliers are not able to provide us with an adequate supply of products to fulfill our customer orders on a timely basis or we cannot otherwise obtain particular products or a product line or suppliers substantially increase their existing distribution through other distributors, their own dealer networks, or directly to resellers, our reputation, sales and profitability may suffer. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates and operating margins and we may be required to pay additional tax assessments. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates and operating margins could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries in low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Any adverse outcome from these continuous examinations may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. During 2002 and 2003, one of our Latin American subsidiaries was audited by the Brazilian taxing authorities in relation to certain commercial taxes. As a result of this audit, the subsidiary received an assessment of 30.6 million Brazilian reais, including interest and penalties computed through December 31, 2005, or approximately $13.1 million at December 31, 2005, alleging these commercial taxes were not properly remitted for the subsidiary’s purchase of imported software during the period January through September 13 Table of Contents 2002. The Brazilian taxing authorities may make similar claims for periods subsequent to September 2002. Additional assessments for periods subsequent to September 2002, if received, may be significant either individually or in the aggregate. It is management’s opinion, based upon the opinions of outside legal counsel, that we have valid defenses to the assessment of these taxes on the purchase of imported software for the 2002 period at issue or any subsequent period. Although we are vigorously pursuing administrative and judicial action to challenge the assessment, no assurance can be given as to the ultimate outcome. An unfavorable resolution of this matter is not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, but depending upon the time period and amounts involved it may have a material negative effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows. We cannot predict what loss, if any, we might incur as a result of the SEC and U.S. Attorney’s inquiries we have received. We received an informal inquiry from the SEC during the third quarter of 2004. The SEC’s focus to date has been related to certain transactions with McAfee, Inc. (formerly Network Associates, Inc. or NAI) from 1998 through 2000. We also received subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney’s office for the Northern District of California (“Department of Justice”) in connection with its grand jury investigation of NAI, which seek information concerning these transactions. On January 4, 2006, McAfee and the SEC made public the terms of a settlement they had reached with respect to McAfee. We continue to cooperate fully with the SEC and the Department of Justice in their inquiries. We are engaged in discussions with the SEC toward a possible resolution of matters concerning these NAI-related transactions. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of these discussions, nor their timing, nor can we reasonably estimate the amount of any loss or range of loss that might be incurred as a result of the resolution of these matters with the SEC and the Department of Justice. Such amounts may be material to our consolidated results of operations or cash flows. We may incur material litigation, regulatory or operational costs or expenses, and may be frustrated in our marketing efforts, as a result of new environmental regulations or private intellectual property enforcement disputes. We may already operate in or expand into markets which could subject us to environmental laws that may have a material adverse effect on our business, including the European Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive as enacted by individual European Union countries and other similar legislation adopted in California, which make producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, responsible for collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of recovered products. We may also be prohibited from marketing products, could be forced to market products without desirable features, or could incur substantial costs to defend legal actions, including where third parties claim that we or vendors who may have indemnified us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. In recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from target companies. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly settlement or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. If a downturn in economic conditions for the IT industry were to occur and continue for a long period of time, it would likely have an adverse impact on our business. The IT industry in general, and the IT products and services distribution industry in particular, experienced a severe downturn in demand for fiscal 2000 through most of fiscal 2003. This downturn resulted in a decline in our net sales and gross profit and impacted financial results of many of our customers and vendors. If another downturn were to occur, we may experience significant operating losses, elevated levels of obsolete inventory, and larger bad debt losses. We may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion to remain competitive, which may cause our profitability to suffer. We have significant credit exposure to our reseller customers and negative trends in their businesses could cause us significant credit loss. As is customary in many industries, we extend credit to our reseller customers for a significant portion of our net sales. Resellers have a period of time, generally 30 to 60 days after date of invoice, to make payment. We are subject to the risk that our reseller customers will not pay for the products they have purchased. The risk that we may be unable to collect on receivables may increase if our 14 Table of Contents reseller customers experience decreases in demand for their products and services or otherwise become less stable, due to adverse economic conditions. If there is a substantial deterioration in the collectibility of our receivables or if we cannot obtain credit insurance at reasonable rates, are unable to collect under existing credit insurance policies, or take other actions to adequately mitigate such credit risk, our earnings, cash flows and our ability to utilize receivable-based financing could deteriorate. We are subject to the risk that our inventory values may decline and protective terms under supplier agreements may not adequately cover the decline in values. The IT products industry is subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced product specification requirements, and evolving industry standards. These changes may cause inventory in stock to decline substantially in value or to become obsolete. It is the policy of many suppliers of IT products to offer distributors like us, who purchase directly from them, limited protection from the loss in value of inventory due to technological change or such suppliers’ price reductions. For example, we can receive a credit from some suppliers for products, based upon the terms and conditions with those suppliers, in the event of a supplier price reduction. In addition, we have a limited right to return to some suppliers a certain percentage of purchases. These policies are often not embodied in written agreements and are subject to the discretion of the suppliers. As a result, these policies do not protect us in all cases from declines in inventory value. We offer no assurance that our price protection will continue, that unforeseen new product developments will not materially adversely affect us, or that we will successfully manage our existing and future inventories. During an economic downturn, it is possible that prices will decline due to an oversupply of product, and therefore, there may be greater risk of declines in inventory value. If major suppliers decrease the availability of price protection to us, such a change in policy could lower our gross margins on products we sell or cause us to record inventory write-downs. We expect the restrictive supplier terms and conditions to continue for the foreseeable future. We are also exposed to inventory risk to the extent that supplier protections are not available on all products or quantities and are subject to time restrictions. In addition, suppliers may become insolvent and unable to fulfill their protection obligations to us. Future terrorist or military actions could result in disruption to our operations or loss of assets in certain markets or globally. Future terrorist or military actions, in the U.S. or abroad, could result in destruction or seizure of assets or suspension or disruption of our operations. Additionally, such actions could affect the operations of our suppliers or customers, resulting in loss of access to products, potential losses on supplier programs, loss of business, higher losses on receivables or inventory, and/or other disruptions in our business, which could negatively affect our operating results. We do not carry broad insurance covering such terrorist or military actions, and even if we were to seek such coverage, the cost would likely be prohibitive. Failure to retain and recruit key personnel would harm our ability to meet key objectives. Because of the nature of our business, which includes (but is not limited to) high volume of transactions, business complexity, wide geographical coverage, and broad scope of products, suppliers, and customers, we are dependent in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key management, sales, IT, operational, and finance personnel. Our continued success is also dependent upon our ability to retain and recruit other qualified employees, including highly skilled technical, managerial, and marketing personnel, to meet our needs. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. In addition, we have recently reduced our personnel in various geographies and functions through our restructuring and outsourcing activities. These reductions could negatively impact our relationships with our workforce, or make hiring other employees more difficult. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, changes in workforce, including government regulations, collective bargaining agreements or the availability of qualified personnel could disrupt operations or increase our operating cost structure. We face a variety of risks with outsourcing arrangements. We have outsourced various transaction-oriented service and support functions to a leading global business process outsource provider outside the United States. We have also previously outsourced a significant portion of our IT infrastructure function to a third-party provider. We may outsource additional functions to third-party providers. Our reliance on third-party providers to provide service to our customers and suppliers and for our IT infrastructure requirements to 15 Table of Contents support our business could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations, including damaging our relationships with our suppliers and customers, if these third-party providers do not meet their obligations to adequately maintain an appropriate level of service for the outsourced functions or fail to adequately support our IT infrastructure requirements. As a result of our outsourcing activities, it may also be more difficult to recruit and retain qualified employees for our business needs. Changes in our credit rating, or other market factors may increase our interest expense or other costs of capital, or capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms to fund our working capital needs. Our business requires significant levels of capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors. This is especially true when our business is expanding, including through acquisitions, but we still have substantial demand for capital even during periods of stagnant or declining net sales. In order to continue operating our business, we will continue to need access to capital, including debt financing. In addition, changes in payment terms with either suppliers or customers could increase our capital requirements. The capital we require may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Changes in our credit ratings, as well as macroeconomic factors such as fluctuations in interest rates or a general economic downturn, may restrict our ability to raise the necessary capital in adequate amounts or on terms acceptable to us, and the failure to do so could harm our ability to operate or expand our business. Rapid changes in the operating environment for IT distributors have placed significant strain on our business, and we offer no assurance that our ability to manage future adverse industry trends will be successful. Dynamic changes in the industry have resulted in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel and have placed and continue to place a significant strain upon our management, operating and financial systems, and other resources. This strain may result in disruptions to our business and decreased revenues and profitability. In addition, we may not be able to attract or retain sufficient personnel to manage our operations through such dynamic changes. Even with sufficient personnel we cannot assure our ability to successfully manage future adverse industry trends. Also crucial to our success in managing our operations will be our ability to achieve additional economies of scale. Our failure to achieve these additional economies of scale could harm our profitability. Changes in accounting rules could adversely affect our future operating results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies, including the FASB and the SEC, who create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. A change from current accounting standards could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued new guidance that addresses the accounting for share-based payments, FAS No. 123R. In April 2005, the SEC deferred the effective date of FAS 123R to years beginning after June 15, 2005. Therefore, FAS 123R will be effective for the company beginning its first quarter of fiscal 2006. FAS 123R as amended requires compensation cost relating to all share-based payments to employees to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. We currently expect the amount of share-based compensation expense included in operating expenses to be approximately $30 million in 2006. Our quarterly results have fluctuated significantly. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future as a result of: • seasonal variations in the demand for our products and services such as lower demand in Europe during the summer months, worldwide pre-holiday stocking in the retail channel during the September-to-December period and the seasonal increase in demand for our North American fee-based logistics related services in the fourth quarter which affects our operating expenses and margins; • competitive conditions in our industry, which may impact the prices charged and terms and conditions imposed by our suppliers and/or competitors and the prices we charge our customers, which in turn may negatively impact our revenues and/or gross margins; • currency fluctuations in countries in which we operate; • variations in our levels of excess inventory and doubtful accounts, and changes in the terms of vendor-sponsored programs such as price protection and return rights; 16 Table of Contents • changes in the level of our operating expenses; • the impact of acquisitions we may make; • the impact of and possible disruption caused by reorganization efforts, as well as the related expenses and/or charges; • the loss or consolidation of one or more of our major suppliers or customers; • product supply constraints; • interest rate fluctuations, which may increase our borrowing costs and may influence the willingness of customers and end-users to purchase products and services; and • general economic or geopolitical conditions. These historical variations may not be indicative of future trends in the near term. Our narrow operating margins may magnify the impact of the foregoing factors on our operating results. We believe that you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of future performance. In addition, the results of any quarterly period are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. We are dependent on third-party shipping companies for the delivery of our products. We rely almost entirely on arrangements with third-party shipping companies for the delivery of our products. The termination of our arrangements with one or more of these third-party shipping companies, or the failure or inability of one or more of these third-party shipping companies to deliver products from suppliers to us or products from us to our reseller customers or their end-user customers, could disrupt our business and harm our reputation and net sales. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 