Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or deemed immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, or future results of operations. We must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences or our sales and results of operations will be adversely affected. Forecasting consumer demand for our merchandise is difficult given the nature of changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. The specialty retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated, in part, by fashion and season. In addition, our merchandise assortment differs in each seasonal flow and at any given time our assortment may not resonate with our customers. On average, we begin the design process for apparel nine to ten months before merchandise is available to consumers, and we typically begin to make purchase commitments four to eight months in advance. These lead times make it difficult for us to respond quickly to changes in demand for our products. To the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local 8 Table of Contents markets, our sales will be adversely affected and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our results of operations. We continue to update our style orientation and reinvigorate our brand, which includes improving the balance of our assortment to address more aspects of our customers' lifestyle and rebuilding our underperforming categories. If these changes do not resonate with our customers, our sales, gross margins and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our inventory levels and merchandise assortments fluctuate seasonally, and at certain times of the year, such as during the holiday season, we maintain higher inventory levels and are particularly susceptible to risks related to demand for our merchandise. If the demand for our merchandise were to be lower than expected, causing us to hold excess inventory, we could be forced to further discount merchandise, which reduces our gross margins and negatively impacts results of operations and operating cash flows. If we were to carry low levels of inventory and demand is stronger than we anticipate, we may not be able to reorder merchandise on a timely basis to meet demand, which may adversely affect sales and customer satisfaction. We may be unable to improve the value of our brand and our failure to do so may adversely affect our business. Our success is driven by the value of the Coldwater Creek brand. We are implementing a comprehensive marketing campaign, which includes television, national magazine advertising, and online media initiatives, to restore Coldwater Creek's brand value and to increase traffic to all channels. This campaign is designed to increase brand engagement and brand trial with a focus on expanding the reach to a broader segment of our target demographic. The value of our brand is largely dependent on the success of our design, merchandise assortment, and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. If we are not able to improve our brand perception, we may not fully realize the benefits of any improvements to our merchandise assortment and customer experience. If we are not able to improve the value of our brand, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Continued material operating losses may require that we obtain additional financing from the capital markets to execute our business plan. We believe we have sufficient cash and liquidity, including our revolving line of credit that we may continue to draw on from time to time, to fund our operations through the next 12 months. However, we have had recurring operating losses and if our future operating performance is below our expectations, or our revolving line of credit is not fully available to us, our cash and liquidity could be adversely impacted. Constraints on liquidity make us vulnerable to further downturns in our business or the general economy and a shortfall would have serious consequences for our business, such as forcing us to curtail our operations. Additionally, lack of capital could restrict our ability to react to changes in our business or to take advantage of opportunities as they arise, including opportunities designed to accelerate our turnaround. For these reasons we may access the capital markets for additional debt or equity financing. If we borrow additional amounts under our revolving line of credit or incur other debt, our interest expense will increase and we may be subject to additional covenants that could restrict our operations. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities could result in significant dilution to our current stockholders, particularly given our low stock price in recent periods. Newly issued securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of our common stock. There is no assurance that debt or equity financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. 9 Table of Contents Our revolving line of credit contains borrowing base and other provisions that may restrict our ability to access it, which could impact our ability to access capital when needed. Historically, we have relied on our cash resources and cash flows from operations to fund our operations. We have also used our revolving line of credit to secure trade letters of credit and from time to time for borrowings, both of which reduce the amount available for borrowing. The actual amount of credit that is available from time to time under our revolving line of credit fluctuates greatly and is limited to a borrowing base amount that is determined according to, among other things, a percentage of the value of eligible inventory plus a percentage of the value of eligible credit card receivables, as reduced by certain reserve amounts that may be determined at the discretion of the lender. Consequently, it is possible that, should we need to access any additional funds from our revolving line of credit, the amount needed may not be available in full. Additionally, our revolving line of credit contains covenants related to capital expenditure levels and minimum inventory book value, and other customary matters. Our failure to comply with the covenants, terms and conditions could cause the revolving line of credit not to be available to us. As of January 28, 2012, the revolving line of credit was limited to a borrowing base of $68.8 million and we had $21.9 million in letters of credit issued and $15.0 million borrowed on our revolving line of credit, resulting in $31.9 million available for borrowing under our revolving line of credit. We may be unable to successfully realize the benefits of our store optimization program. We continue to believe that retail expansion will be a key driver for our long term growth. However, due to our business performance and our focus on improving financial results, we are executing a store optimization program based on an ongoing review of the performance of our premium stores. As a result, we closed 15 premium stores in fiscal 2011 and expect to close approximately 20 to 30 additional underperforming stores prior to the end of fiscal 2013. The optimization program will be achieved through a staged approach based primarily on natural lease expirations and early termination rights. In total, when the program is completed, we expect these actions to generate approximately $15 to $20 million in annualized expense reductions and approximately $8 to $12 million in annualized improvement in pretax operating results. However, there can be no assurance that the store optimization program will realize the expected benefits and we may incur delays and unexpected costs in its execution. Any miscalculations or shortcomings we may make in the planning and implementation of the store optimization program may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Economic conditions have impacted consumer spending and may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Consumer spending patterns are highly sensitive to the economic climate and consumer spending continues to be impacted by the high levels of unemployment, foreclosures and declines in home values, stock market volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit, volatile energy and food costs, and other negative economic conditions, nationally and regionally. We continue to be affected by challenging macroeconomic conditions which are evidenced in our business by a highly competitive retail selling environment and low retail store traffic. We believe these conditions will continue for the foreseeable future. If consumer spending on apparel and accessories continues to decline and demand for our products decreases further, we may be forced to further discount our merchandise or sell it at a loss, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, higher costs for transportation, raw materials, labor, insurance and healthcare, and other negative economic factors may adversely affect our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We have incurred substantial financial commitments and fixed costs related to our retail stores that we will not be able to recover if our stores are not successful. The success of an individual store location is dependent on the success of the lifestyle center, shopping mall or outlet center where the store is located, and may be influenced by changing customer demographic and consumer spending patterns. These factors cannot be predicted with accuracy. Because we enter into long-term financial commitments when leasing retail store locations and incur substantial fixed costs for each store's design, leasehold improvements, fixtures and management information systems, it would be costly for us to close a store that does not prove successful. The testing of our retail stores' long-lived assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows that are inherently uncertain. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic conditions, our results of operations, and competitive conditions in the industry. These factors, along with fluctuations and changes from estimates in sales, gross margins, operating cash flows and earnings, may affect the timing and the fair value estimates used in our testing of long-lived assets, which may result in impairment charges. We are subject to potentially adverse outcomes in litigation matters, which could adversely affect our business. We are, from time to time, involved in various legal proceedings incidental to the conduct of our business. Actions which may be filed against us include commercial, intellectual property infringement, customer and employment claims, including class action lawsuits alleging that we have violated federal and state wage and hour and other laws. These issues arise primarily in the ordinary course of business but could raise complex factual and legal issues, which are subject to multiple risks and uncertainties and could require significant management time and costs to defend. We believe that our current litigation issues will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, our assessment of current litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts not presently known to us with respect to pending legal actions, or adverse determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact. Moreover, additional litigation that is not currently pending may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our results of operations fluctuate and may be negatively impacted by seasonal influences, particularly during the holiday season. Our net sales, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows have fluctuated, and will continue to fluctuate, on a quarterly basis, as well as on an annual basis, as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: •the composition, size and timing of various merchandise offerings; •the timing and number of premium retail store openings and closings; •the timing and number of promotions; •the timing and number of catalog mailings; •the ability to accurately estimate and accrue for merchandise returns and the costs of inventory disposition; •the timing of merchandise shipping and receiving, including any delays resulting from labor strikes or slowdowns, adverse weather conditions, health epidemics or national security measures; and 11 Table of Contents •shifts in the timing of important holiday selling seasons relative to our fiscal quarters, including Valentine's Day, Easter, Mother's Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas, and the day of the week on which certain important holidays fall. Our results continue to depend materially on sales and profits from the November and December holiday shopping season. In anticipation of traditionally increased holiday sales activity, we incur certain significant incremental expenses, including the hiring of a substantial number of temporary employees to supplement the existing workforce. If, for any reason, we were to realize lower-than-expected sales or profits during the November and December holiday selling season, our financial condition, results of operations, including related gross margins, and cash flows for the entire fiscal year may be adversely affected. We may be unable to manage the complexities of our multi-channel business model, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The complexity of our multi-channel business model requires a level of expertise to successfully manage operations. As we continue to tightly control expenses, we may experience an increase in demands on our managerial, operational and administrative resources, as well as our control environment. If we do not manage these demands, we may not realize the full benefits of our multi-channel business model, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to significant risks associated with our management information systems, which, if not working properly, could adversely affect our results of operations. We have a number of complex management information systems that are critical to our operations, including systems such as accounting, human resources, inventory purchasing and management, financial planning, direct segment order processing, and retail segment point-of-sale systems. Installing new systems or maintaining and upgrading existing systems carries substantial risk, including potential loss of data or information, cost overruns, implementation delays, disruption of operations, lower customer satisfaction resulting in lost customers, inability to deliver merchandise to our stores or our customers and our potential inability to meet SEC reporting requirements, any of which would harm our business and may adversely affect our results of operations. Compromises of our data security could adversely affect our results of operations. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store certain personal information from our customers, employees and vendors, and we process customer payments using payment information. In addition, business is primarily conducted over the Internet for our direct segment. In order to reduce our vulnerability to computer viruses, physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, we have taken steps designed to secure our computer systems, which include network firewalls, two-factor authentication and access technology, encryption, and intrusion detection and prevention devices to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a data compromise. Attempts to penetrate our computer system could result in misappropriation of personal information, payment information or confidential business information. In addition, an employee, contractor or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks. Risks of attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third party specialists. Any compromise of our data security and loss of personal or business information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customer confidence, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We are required to maintain compliance with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards ("PCI Standards"), which are common standards for protecting cardholder data. As part of an overall security program and to meet PCI Standards, we undergo frequent external vulnerability scans and we are reviewed by a third party security assessor. As PCI Standards change, we may be required to implement additional security measures. Failure to maintain compliance could violate agreements with major credit card companies and result in significant fines or a loss of credit processing capabilities. We depend on key vendors for timely and effective sourcing and delivery of our merchandise. If these vendors are unable to timely fill orders or meet quality standards, we may lose customer sales and our reputation may suffer. We may experience difficulties in obtaining sufficient manufacturing capacity from our vendors. We generally maintain non-exclusive relationships with multiple vendors that manufacture our merchandise. However, we have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could discontinue selling to us at any time. Moreover, a key vendor may not be able to supply our inventory needs due to capacity constraints, financial instability, or other factors beyond our control, or we could decide to stop using a vendor due to quality or other issues. If we were required to change vendors or if a key vendor were unable to supply desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, particularly in light of current global economic conditions, we could experience delays in filling customer orders or delivering inventory to stores until alternative supply arrangements are secured. These delays could result in lost sales and a decline in customer satisfaction. The inability of key vendors to access credit and liquidity, or the insolvency of key vendors, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise, which could result in lost sales and lower customer satisfaction. It is also possible that the inability of our vendors to access credit or concerns vendors or their lenders may have with our creditworthiness may cause them to extend less favorable terms to us, which could adversely affect our cash flows, margins and financial condition, as well as limit the availability under our revolving line of credit. Additionally, delays by our vendors in supplying our inventory needs could cause us to incur more expensive air freight charges, which may adversely affect our margins. Our reliance on foreign vendors subjects us to uncertainties that could impact our costs to source merchandise, delay or prevent merchandise shipments, which could adversely affect our business. We continue to source apparel directly from foreign vendors, particularly those located in Asia, India and Central America. We were the importer of record for approximately 65 percent of the total apparel units purchased during fiscal 2011. Irrespective of our direct sourcing from foreign vendors, substantially all of our merchandise, including that which we buy from domestic vendors, is manufactured overseas. This exposes us to risks and uncertainties which could substantially impact our ability to realize any perceived cost savings. These risks include, among other things: •burdens associated with doing business overseas, including the imposition of, or increases in, tariffs or import duties, or import/export controls or regulations, as well as credit assurances we are required to provide to foreign vendors; •declines in the relative value of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies; •volatile labor, fuel, energy and raw material costs, such as recent increases in the cost of cotton; •failure of vendors to adhere to our quality assurance standards, code of conduct and other environmental, labor, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers; •financial instability of a vendor or vendors, including their potential inability to obtain credit to manufacture the merchandise they produce for us; •the potential inability of our vendors to meet our production needs due to raw material or labor shortages; 13 Table of Contents •changing, uncertain or negative economic conditions, political uncertainties or unrest, or epidemics or other health or weather-related events in foreign countries resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries; and •restrictions on the transfer of funds or transportation delays or interruptions. We face substantial competition from other retailers in the women's apparel industry and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected. We face substantial competition from other specialty retailers in the women's apparel industry and our net sales may decline or grow more slowly if we are unable to differentiate our merchandise and shopping experience from those of other retailers. In addition, the retail apparel industry has experienced significant price deflation over the past several years largely due to the downward pressure on retail prices caused by discount retailers and, more recently, by declining consumer spending, resulting in increased promotional and competitive activity. This competitive environment may make it more difficult to pass on product cost increases to our customers and to compete with retailers that have greater purchasing power, which may result in lower gross margins. We may be unable to efficiently fill customer orders in our direct segment, which could adversely affect customer satisfaction, our reputation and our business. If we are unable to efficiently process and fill customer orders, customers may cancel or refuse to accept orders, and customer satisfaction could be harmed. We are subject to, among other things: •failures in the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our customer contact center or our distribution center, including system failures caused by telecommunications systems providers, order volumes that exceed our present telephone or Internet system capabilities, computer viruses, electrical outages, mechanical problems, and human error; •delays or failures in the performance of third parties, such as vendors who supply our merchandise, shipping companies and the U.S. postal and customs services, including delays associated with labor strikes or slowdowns, adverse weather conditions, or health epidemics; and •disruptions or slowdowns in our order processing or fulfillment systems resulting from increased security measures implemented by U.S. customs or from homeland security measures, fire, natural disasters or comparable events. We have a liberal merchandise return policy and if we experience a greater number of returns than anticipated, our results of operations could be adversely affected. As part of our commitment to superior customer service, we accept returns virtually at any time and for any reason through any channel regardless of initial point of purchase. We make allowances in our financial statements for anticipated merchandise returns based on historical return rates and future expectations. These allowances may be exceeded, however, by actual merchandise returns as a result of many factors, including changes in the merchandise mix, size and fit, actual or perceived quality, differences between the actual product and its presentation in catalogs or on the website, timeliness of delivery, competitive offerings and consumer preferences or confidence. Any significant increase in merchandise returns that exceed our estimates would result in adjustments to revenue and to cost of sales and may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unable to manage significant increases in the costs associated with our catalog business, which could adversely impact our business. We incur substantial costs associated with catalog mailings, including paper, postage, merchandise acquisition and human resource costs associated with catalog layout and design, production and 14 Table of Contents circulation and increased inventories. Significant increases in U.S. Postal Service rates and the cost of telecommunications services, paper and catalog production could significantly increase catalog production costs and result in lower profits for the catalog business. Most of our catalog-related costs are incurred prior to mailing, and as such we are not able to adjust the costs of a particular catalog mailing to reflect the actual subsequent performance of the catalog. Moreover, customer response rates have been volatile in recent years, particularly for mailings to prospective customers. Any performance shortcomings experienced by the catalog business may adversely affect our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our success is dependent upon key personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Our future success depends largely on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other employees. The loss of any of our key employees may adversely affect our business. Furthermore, the current economic conditions or the location of our corporate headquarters in Sandpoint, Idaho, may make it more difficult or costly to attract qualified employees for key positions. Our multi-channel business model may expose us to assessments for unpaid taxes, penalties and interest, which could be substantial. Our multi-channel business model subjects us to taxes in numerous jurisdictions, including state and local income, franchise, payroll, and sales and use tax. We collect and remit these taxes in any jurisdiction in which we have a physical presence. While we believe we have appropriately paid or accrued for all taxes based on our interpretation of applicable law, tax laws are complex and interpretations differ from state to state. In the past, some taxing jurisdictions have assessed additional taxes and penalties on us, asserting either an error in our calculation or an interpretation of the law that differed from our own. It is possible that taxing authorities may make additional assessments in the future. In addition to taxes, penalties and interest, these assessments could cause us to incur legal fees associated with resolving disputes with taxing authorities. Additionally, changes in state and local tax laws, such as temporary changes associated with "tax holidays" and other programs, require us to make continual changes to our collection and reporting systems that may relate to only one taxing jurisdiction. If we fail to update our collection and reporting systems in response to these changes, any over collection or under collection of taxes could subject us to interest and penalties, as well as private lawsuits and damage to our reputation. The day spa concept may not be successful and may be abandoned at any time, which could adversely affect our operating results. We operate the Coldwater Creek ~ The Spa concept in nine locations. To date, our day spas have had a negative impact on our earnings, as we experiment with marketing approaches and gather data regarding the spa business and, in particular, our spa customer. We have no plans to build additional day spas. There is no assurance that the day spa concept will ever be successful. If we were to abandon the day spa concept, we would be required to write off any remaining net capitalized costs and may incur lease termination costs, which may adversely affect results of operations. Additionally, we may incur impairment charges related to our day spas if there were a continued deterioration in the spas' results of operations. If we are unable to protect our trademarks from infringement, our business may be adversely affected. Our registered trademarks, which include Coldwater Creek® and the stylized Coldwater Creek logo, are important to our success. Even though we register and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that our actions will protect us from others infringing upon our trademarks and proprietary rights or seeking to block sales of our products as infringements of their 15 Table of Contents trademarks and proprietary rights. If we cannot adequately protect our trademarks or prevent infringement of them, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Because the majority of our cash and cash equivalents are concentrated with one financial institution, we may experience losses on our deposits. We maintain the majority of our cash and cash equivalents with one major financial institution in the United States, in the form of demand deposits, money market accounts and other short-term investments. Deposits in this institution may exceed the amounts of insurance provided on such deposits. With the current financial environment and the instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on our deposits. Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated and will continue to be significantly affected by, among other factors, quarterly operating results, changes in any earnings estimates publicly announced by us or by analysts, customer response to merchandise offerings, and timing of retail store openings and closings. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility and market prices for the stock of many companies, including ours, have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to their operating performance. The reported high and low closing prices of our common stock during fiscal 2011 were $3.07 per share and $0.82 per share, respectively. The current price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices. The fluctuation of the market price of our common stock may have a negative impact on our liquidity and access to capital. In addition, price volatility of our common stock may expose us to stockholder litigation which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ, which may limit the ability of our stockholders to sell shares of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and we are required to meet specified financial requirements to maintain this listing, one of which is that we maintain a minimum closing price of at least $1.00 per share for our common stock. Our common stock has recently traded below $1.00 per share. If we fail to maintain the $1.00 minimum closing price for 30 consecutive business days, we may be at risk of delisting. We cannot be assured that we can maintain or would be successful in regaining compliance with the minimum price requirements in the future. Delisting, or even the issuance of a notice of potential delisting, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares and our ability to issue additional securities or secure financing. In the event of delisting, trading of our common stock would most likely be conducted in the over the counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities, which would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, security analysts' coverage of us could be reduced and customer, investor, supplier and employee confidence may be diminished. Our largest stockholders may exert influence over our business regardless of the opposition of other stockholders or the desire of other stockholders to pursue an alternate course of action. Dennis Pence, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, CEO and co-founder, beneficially owns, directly and indirectly, 18.6% of our outstanding common stock. Ann Pence, our co-founder, beneficially owns, directly and indirectly, 14.9% of our outstanding common stock. Either Dennis Pence or Ann Pence acting independently would have significant influence over, and should they act together, could effectively control the outcome of, any matters submitted to stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of business combinations, and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control of the Company, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders. 16 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover and discourage, delay or prevent stockholders from replacing or removing current directors or management. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger with or acquisition of us, even where the stockholders may consider it to be favorable. These provisions could also prevent or hinder an attempt by stockholders to replace current directors and include: •providing for a classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms; •prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; •authorizing the Board of Directors to designate and issue "blank check" preferred stock; •limiting persons who can call special meetings of the Board of Directors or stockholders; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at a stockholders meeting. Because the Board of Directors appoints management, any inability to effect a change in the Board of Directors may also result in the entrenchment of management. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. The preceding provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change of control and prevent changes in our management. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 