Item 1A. Risk Factors. In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business A decline in the level of business activity of our policyholders, particularly those engaged in the construction, trucking, agricultural and logging industries, could negatively affect our earnings and profitability. In 2008, 73.5% of our gross premiums written were derived from policyholders in the construction, trucking, agriculture and logging industries. Because premium rates are calculated, in general, as a percentage of a policyholder’s payroll expense, premiums fluctuate depending upon the level of business activity and number of employees of our policyholders. As a result, our gross premiums written are primarily dependent upon economic conditions in the construction, trucking, and logging industries and upon economic conditions generally. Economic activity began to decline in the latter part of 2007 and we believe this slowdown in work activity will continue in 2009. We believe these current economic conditions will adversely affect our reported gross premiums written and revenues in 2009. Current economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The economic downturn experienced throughout the United States in 2008 appears to be continuing unabated in 2009. Negative trends in business investment, consumer confidence and spending, the significant declines and volatility of the capital markets, the availability of credit and the rate of unemployment can adversely affect our business. And, although we have not seen material decreases in new business activity or reported payrolls, a prolonged economic downturn could adversely impact our future growth and profitability. Although we continue to closely monitor market conditions, we cannot predict future conditions or their impact on our premium volume, the value of our investment portfolio and our financial performance. As a result of these current economic conditions, we could experience future decreases in business activity and incur additional realized and unrealized losses in our investment portfolio, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our loss reserves are based on estimates and may be inadequate to cover our actual losses. We record reserves for estimated losses under insurance policies we write and for loss adjustment expenses related to the investigation and settlement of claims. Our reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses represent the estimated cost of all reported and unreported loss and loss adjustment expenses incurred and unpaid at any given point in time based on known facts and circumstances. Reserves are based on estimates of the most likely ultimate cost of individual claims. These estimates are inherently uncertain. Substantial judgment is required to determine the relevance of our historical experience and industry information under current facts and circumstances. The interpretation of this historical data can be impacted by external forces, principally frequency and severity of unreported claims, length of time to achieve ultimate settlement of claims, inflation in medical costs and wages, insurance policy coverage interpretations, jury determinations, and legislative changes. Accordingly, our reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. If there are unfavorable changes affecting our assumptions, our reserves may need to be increased. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Workers’ compensation claims often are paid over a long period of time. In addition, there are no policy limits on our liability for workers’ compensation claims as there are for other forms of insurance. Therefore, estimating reserves for workers’ compensation claims may be more uncertain than estimating reserves for other types of insurance claims with shorter or more definite periods between occurrence of the claim and final determination of the loss and with policy limits on liability for claim amounts. Accordingly, our reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. If we change our estimates, these changes will result in adjustments to our reserves and our loss and loss adjustment expenses incurred in the period in which the estimates are changed. If the estimate is increased, our pre-tax income for the period in which we make the change will decrease by a corresponding amount. In addition, increasing reserves results in a reduction in our surplus and could result in a downgrade in our A.M. Best rating. Such a downgrade could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to sell insurance policies. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We principally offer workers’ compensation insurance. We have no current plans to focus our efforts on offering other types of insurance. As a result, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have a greater effect on insurance companies that sell multiple types of insurance. We operate in a highly competitive industry and may lack the financial resources to compete effectively. There is significant competition in the workers’ compensation insurance industry. We believe that our competition in the hazardous industries we target is fragmented and not dominated by one or more competitors. We compete with other insurance companies, state insurance pools and self-insurance funds. Many of our existing and potential competitors are significantly larger and possess greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Moreover, a number of these competitors offer other types of insurance in addition to workers’ compensation and can provide insurance nationwide. We compete on the basis of many factors, including coverage availability, claims management, safety services, payment terms, premium rates, policy terms, types of insurance offered, overall financial strength, financial ratings and reputation. If any of our competitors offer premium rates, policy terms or types of insurance that are more competitive than ours, we could lose market share. No assurance can be given that we will maintain our current competitive position in the markets in which we currently operate or that we will establish a competitive position in new markets into which we may expand. If we are unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Investment income is an important component of our net income. As of December 31, 2008, our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, had a carrying value of $800.0 million. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we had $31.0 million of net investment income. Our investment portfolio is managed under investment guidelines approved by our board of directors, and is made up predominately of fixed maturity securities and cash and cash equivalents. Although our investment guidelines emphasize liquidity, diversification and capital preservation, our investments are subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to general economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations, market illiquidity and market volatility. General economic conditions may be adversely affected by U.S. involvement in hostilities with other countries and large-scale acts of terrorism, or the threat of hostilities or terrorist acts. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio and future investment income. Unprecedented low interest rates have had, and 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements will continue to have, an adverse effect on our investment income. Additionally, changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on mortgage-backed securities included in our investment portfolio. Similarly, during periods of market disruption such as we are currently experiencing, including periods of rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, the fair values of certain of our fixed maturity securities, such as asset-backed and commercial mortgage-backed securities, could be deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired, even though we have the positive ability and intent to hold these securities to maturity. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of the equity securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. During 2008, we recorded charges for certain securities in our investment portfolio, the fair values of which we determined were other-than-temporarily impaired. These charges are included in “Net realized gains (losses) on investments” on our consolidated statement of income and totaled $17.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We cannot assure you that our investment portfolio will not suffer additional other-than-temporary investment losses. These and other factors affect the capital markets and, consequently, the value of our investment portfolio and our future investment income. Any significant decline in our investment income would adversely affect our revenues and net income. The workers’ compensation insurance industry is cyclical in nature, which may affect our overall financial performance. The financial performance of the workers’ compensation insurance industry has historically fluctuated with periods of lower premium rates and excess underwriting capacity resulting from increased competition followed by periods of higher premium rates and reduced underwriting capacity resulting from decreased competition. Although the financial performance of an individual insurance company is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most workers’ compensation insurance companies generally tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. In 2008, the workers’ compensation industry experienced both decreasing loss costs in most of the states in which we write business and intense price competition. Because this market cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of our competitors and general economic factors, we cannot predict the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. We expect these cyclical patterns will cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate, which may cause the price of our common stock to be more volatile. If we do not appropriately establish our premium rates, our results of operations will be adversely affected. In general, the premium rates for our insurance policies are established when coverage is initiated and, therefore, before all of the underlying costs are known. Like other workers’ compensation insurance companies, we rely on estimates and assumptions in setting our premium rates. Establishing adequate rates is necessary to generate sufficient revenue to offset losses, loss adjustment expenses and other underwriting expenses, and to earn an underwriting profit. If we fail to accurately assess the risks that we assume, we may fail to charge adequate premium rates to cover our losses and expenses, which could reduce our net income and cause us to become unprofitable. For example, when initiating coverage on a policyholder, we estimate future claims expense based, in part, on prior claims information provided by the policyholder’s previous insurance carriers. If this prior claims information is not accurate, we may underprice our policy by using claims estimates that are too low. As a result, our actual costs for providing insurance coverage to our policyholders may be significantly higher than our premiums. In order to set premium rates appropriately, we must: • collect and properly analyze a substantial volume of data; • develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulae; 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and • project both frequency and severity of losses with reasonable accuracy. We must also implement our pricing accurately in accordance with our assumptions. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully, and as a result set premium rates accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, principally: • insufficient reliable data; • incorrect or incomplete analysis of available data; • uncertainties generally inherent in estimates and assumptions; • the complexity inherent in implementing appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies; • costs of ongoing medical treatment; • uncertainties inherent in accurately estimating retention, investment yields, and the duration of our liability for loss and loss adjustment expenses; and • unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action. Consequently, we could set our premium rates too low, which would negatively affect our results of operations and our profitability, or we could set our premium rates too high, which could reduce our competitiveness and lead to lower revenues. If we are unable to obtain reinsurance on favorable terms, our ability to write policies could be adversely affected. We purchase reinsurance to protect us from the impact of large losses. Reinsurance is an arrangement in which an insurance company, called the ceding company, transfers insurance risk by sharing premiums with another insurance company, called the reinsurer. Conversely, the reinsurer receives or assumes reinsurance from the ceding company. Our 2009 reinsurance program provides us with reinsurance coverage for each loss occurrence up to $50.0 million, subject to applicable deductibles, retentions and aggregate limits. However, for any loss occurrence involving only one claimant, our reinsurance coverage is limited to $10.0 million for any single claimant, subject to applicable deductibles, retentions and aggregate limits. Our 2009 program calls for us to retain the first $1.0 million of each loss. For losses between $1.0 million and $5.0 million, we are subject to an annual aggregate deductible of $20.0 million before our reinsurers are obligated to reimburse us. The three year aggregate limit for all claims for losses between $1.0 million and $5.0 million is $40.0 million for Part A and $20.0 million for Part B. For losses between $5.0 million and $10.0 million, the three year aggregate limit for all claims for losses between $5.0 million and $10.0 million is $20.0 million. See “Business—Reinsurance.” The availability, amount, and cost of reinsurance are subject to market conditions and our experience with insured losses. As a result, any material changes in market conditions or our loss experience could adversely affect our financial performance. If any of our current reinsurers were to terminate participation in our reinsurance treaty program, we could be exposed to an increased risk of loss. The 2009 reinsurance treaty program’s first casualty excess of loss will terminate on January 1, 2011. The second casualty excess of loss and casualty catastrophe layers terminate on January 1, 2012. When our reinsurance treaty program is terminated and we enter into a new program, any decrease in the amount of 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements reinsurance at the time we enter into a new program, whether caused by the existence of more restrictive terms and conditions or decreased availability, will also increase our risk of loss and, as a result, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have 16 reinsurers participating in our reinsurance treaty program, and we believe that this is a sufficient number of reinsurers to provide us with the reinsurance coverage we require. However, it is possible that one or more of our current reinsurers could terminate participation in our program. Regarding the first casualty excess of loss treaty, it is possible that one or more of our current reinsurers could terminate continued participation in this loss layer. In addition, we may terminate the participation of one or more of our reinsurers under certain circumstances as permitted by the terms of our reinsurance agreements. In any of these events, if our reinsurance broker is unable to reallocate the terminated reinsurance among the remaining reinsurers in the program, it could take a significant period of time to identify and negotiate agreements with one or more replacement reinsurers. During this period, we would be exposed to an increased risk of loss, the extent of which would depend on the coverage previously provided by the terminated reinsurance. We may not be able to recover amounts due from our reinsurers, which would adversely affect our financial condition. Reinsurance does not discharge our obligations under the insurance policies we write. We remain liable to our policyholders even if we are unable to make recoveries that we are entitled to receive under our reinsurance contracts. As a result, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Losses are recovered from our reinsurers as claims are paid. In long-term workers’ compensation claims, the creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we recover amounts to which we are entitled. Therefore, if a reinsurer is unable to meet any of its obligations to us, we would be responsible for all claims and claim settlement expenses for which we would have otherwise received payment from the reinsurer. In the past, we have been unable to recover amounts from our reinsurers. In 2001, Reliance Insurance Company, one of our former reinsurers, was placed under regulatory supervision by the Pennsylvania Insurance Department and was subsequently placed into liquidation. As a result, between 2001 and December 31, 2008, we recognized losses related to uncollectible amounts due from Reliance aggregating $21.8 million. As of December 31, 2008, we had $67.8 million of recoverables from reinsurers. Of this amount, $56.0 million was unsecured. As of December 31, 2008, our largest recoverables from reinsurers included $14.9 million from Odyssey America Reinsurance Company, $7.9 million from St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company and $7.6 million from Clearwater Insurance Company. If we are unable to collect amounts recoverable from our reinsurers, our financial condition would be adversely affected. Because we are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, legislative changes may negatively impact our business. We are subject to extensive regulation by the Louisiana Department of Insurance and the insurance regulatory agencies of other states in which we are licensed and, to a lesser extent, federal regulation. State agencies have broad regulatory powers designed primarily to protect policyholders and their employees, and not our shareholders. Regulations vary from state to state, but typically address: • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of our investments; • restrictions on the terms of the insurance policies we offer; • restrictions on the way our premium rates are established and the premium rates we may charge; 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • required reserves for unearned premiums and loss and loss adjustment expenses; • standards for appointing general agencies; • limitations on transactions with affiliates; • restrictions on mergers and acquisitions; • restrictions on the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends to AMERISAFE; • certain required methods of accounting; and • potential assessments for state guaranty funds, second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements. We may be unable to comply fully with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations that are continually undergoing revision. In addition, we follow practices based on our interpretations of laws and regulations that we believe are generally followed by our industry. These practices may be different from interpretations of insurance regulatory agencies. As a result, insurance regulatory agencies could preclude us from conducting some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. For example, in order to enforce applicable laws and regulations or to protect policyholders, insurance regulatory agencies have relatively broad discretion to impose a variety of sanctions, including examinations, corrective orders, suspension, revocation or denial of licenses, and the takeover of one or more of our insurance subsidiaries. The extensive regulation of our business may increase the cost of our insurance and may limit our ability to obtain premium rate increases or to take other actions to increase our profitability. A downgrade in our A.M. Best rating would likely reduce the amount of business we are able to write. Rating agencies evaluate insurance companies based on their ability to pay claims. We are currently assigned a group letter rating of “A–” (Excellent) from A.M. Best, which is the rating agency that we believe has the most influence on our business. This rating is assigned to companies that, in the opinion of A.M. Best, have demonstrated an excellent overall performance when compared to industry standards. A.M. Best considers “A–” rated companies to have an excellent ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The ratings of A.M. Best are subject to periodic review using, among other things, proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. A.M. Best ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and insurance agencies and are not intended for the protection of investors or as a recommendation to buy, hold or sell securities. Our competitive position relative to other companies is determined in part by our A.M. Best rating. Any downgrade in our rating would likely adversely affect our business through the loss of certain existing and potential policyholders and the loss of relationships with certain independent agencies. A downgrade in the A.M. Best rating of one or more of our significant reinsurers could adversely affect our financial condition. Our financial condition could be adversely affected if the A.M. Best rating of one or more of our significant reinsurers is downgraded. For example, our A.M. Best rating may be downgraded if our amounts recoverable from a reinsurer are significant and the A.M. Best rating of that reinsurer is downgraded. If one of our reinsurers suffers a rating downgrade, we may consider various options to lessen the impact on our financial condition, including commutation, novation and the use of letters of credit to secure amounts recoverable from reinsurers. However, these options may result in losses to our company, and there can be no assurance that we could implement any of these options. 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our business is dependent on the efforts of our executive officers because of their industry expertise, knowledge of our markets and relationships with the independent agencies that sell our insurance. Our success is dependent on the efforts of our executive officers because of their industry expertise, knowledge of our markets and relationships with our independent agencies. We have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers and those agreements expire in March 2011, unless extended. Should any of our executive officers cease working for us, we may be unable to find acceptable replacements with comparable skills and experience in the workers’ compensation insurance industry and the hazardous industries that we target. As a result, our operations may be disrupted and our business may be adversely affected. We do not currently maintain life insurance policies with respect to our executive officers. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of our liability under an insurance policy may not be known until many years after the policy is issued. For example, medical costs associated with permanent and partial disabilities may increase more rapidly or be higher than we currently expect. Changes of this nature may expose us to higher claims than we anticipated when we wrote the underlying policy. If we cannot sustain our relationships with independent agencies, we may be unable to operate profitably. We market a substantial portion of our workers’ compensation insurance through independent agencies. As of December 31, 2008, independent agencies produced 89.8% of our voluntary in-force premiums. No independent agency accounted for more than 1.0% of our voluntary in-force premiums at that date. Independent agencies are not obligated to promote our insurance and may sell insurance offered by our competitors. As a result, our continued profitability depends, in part, on the marketing efforts of our independent agencies and on our ability to offer workers’ compensation insurance and maintain financial strength ratings that meet the requirements of our independent agencies and their policyholders. An inability to effectively manage the growth of our operations could make it difficult for us to compete and could affect our ability to operate profitably. Our continuing growth strategy includes expanding in our existing markets, entering new geographic markets and further developing our agency relationships. Our growth strategy is subject to various risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • profitably increase our business in existing markets; • identify profitable new geographic markets for entry; • attract and retain qualified personnel for expanded operations; • identify, recruit and integrate new independent agencies; and • augment our internal operations and systems as we expand our business. 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may be available only on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including state regulatory requirements, the financial stability of our reinsurers and our ability to write new business and establish premium rates sufficient to cover our estimated claims. We may need to raise additional capital or curtail our growth if the capital of our insurance subsidiaries is insufficient to support future operating requirements and/or cover claims. If we had to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing might not be available to us or might be available only on terms that are not favorable. Future equity offerings could be dilutive to our shareholders and the equity securities issued in any offering may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. In addition, under certain circumstances, the sale of our common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into shares of our common stock, at a price per share less than the market value of our common stock may result in an adjustment to the conversion price at which shares of our existing convertible preferred stock may be converted into shares of our common stock. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to support future growth or operating requirements and, as a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. As an insurance holding company, AMERISAFE is dependent on the results of operations of its insurance subsidiaries, and our Company’s ability to pay dividends depends on the regulatory and financial capacity of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to AMERISAFE. AMERISAFE is a holding company that transacts business through its operating subsidiaries, including American Interstate Insurance Company. AMERISAFE’s primary assets are the capital stock of these operating subsidiaries. The ability of AMERISAFE to pay dividends to our shareholders depends upon the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends to AMERISAFE. Payment of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries is restricted by state insurance laws, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds, and could be subject to contractual restrictions in the future, including those imposed by indebtedness we may incur in the future. As a result, AMERISAFE may not be able to receive dividends from its insurance subsidiaries and may not receive dividends in amounts necessary to pay dividends on our capital stock. Based on reported capital and surplus at December 31, 2008, American Interstate is permitted under Louisiana insurance law to pay dividends to AMERISAFE in 2009 in an amount up to $17.6 million without approval by the Louisiana Department of Insurance. We have limited ability to pay dividends on, or repurchase, our common stock without consent from our preferred shareholders and, in the case of dividends, our lenders. We may not pay dividends on our common stock (other than in additional shares of common stock) or repurchase shares of our common stock without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our convertible preferred stock. In the case of dividends, if holders of our convertible preferred stock consent to the payment of a dividend by us, we must pay a dividend to the holders of our convertible preferred stock on an as-converted to common stock basis equal to the dividend we pay to holders of our common stock. Further, our existing credit agreement requires us to obtain the consent of our lenders in order to pay cash dividends. Currently, we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. Assessments and premium surcharges for state guaranty funds, second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. Most states require insurance companies licensed to do business in their state to participate in guaranty funds, which require the insurance companies to bear a portion of the unfunded obligations of impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments, most of which are expected to 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements continue in the future. State guaranty associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurance companies in the state based on their proportionate share of premiums written in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies are engaged. See “Business—Regulation” in Item 1 of this report. Accordingly, the assessments levied on us may increase as we increase our written premium. Some states also have laws that establish second injury funds to reimburse insurers and employers for claims paid to injured employees for aggravation of prior conditions or injuries. These funds are supported by either assessments or premium surcharges based on case incurred losses. In addition, as a condition to conducting business in some states, insurance companies are required to participate in residual market programs to provide insurance to those employers who cannot procure coverage from an insurance carrier on a negotiated basis. Insurance companies generally can fulfill their residual market obligations by, among other things, participating in a reinsurance pool where the results of all policies provided through the pool are shared by the participating insurance companies. Although we price our insurance to account for obligations we may have under these pooling arrangements, we may not be successful in estimating our liability for these obligations. Accordingly, mandatory pooling arrangements may cause a decrease in our profits. At December 31, 2008, we participated in mandatory pooling arrangements in 19 states and the District of Columbia. As we write policies in new states that have mandatory pooling arrangements, we will be required to participate in additional pooling arrangements. Further, the impairment, insolvency or failure of other insurance companies in these pooling arrangements would likely increase the liability for other members in the pool. The effect of assessments and premium surcharges or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. We may have exposure to losses from terrorism for which we are required by law to provide coverage. When writing workers’ compensation insurance policies, we are required by law to provide workers’ compensation benefits for losses arising from acts of terrorism. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us would depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act. Our 2009 reinsurance treaty program affords limited coverage for up to $50.0 million for losses arising from terrorism, subject to applicable deductibles, retentions and aggregate limits. Notwithstanding the protection provided by reinsurance and the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2007, the risk of severe losses to us from acts of terrorism has not been eliminated because our reinsurance treaty program includes various sub-limits and exclusions limiting our reinsurers’ obligation to cover losses caused by acts of terrorism. Accordingly, events constituting acts of terrorism may not be covered by, or may exceed the capacity of, our reinsurance and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2007 is set to expire on December 31, 2014. If this law is not extended or replaced by legislation affording a similar level of protection to the insurance industry against insured losses arising out of acts of terrorism, reinsurance for losses arising from terrorism may be unavailable or prohibitively expensive, and we may be further exposed to losses arising from acts of terrorism. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of factors beyond our control, which fluctuation may cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. The revenues and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: • rising levels of claims costs, including medical and prescription drug costs, that we cannot anticipate at the time we establish our premium rates; • fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment that affect returns on our invested assets; 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • changes in the frequency or severity of claims; • the financial stability of our reinsurers and changes in the level of reinsurance capacity and our capital capacity; • new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of liabilities of insurance companies; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; and • price competition. If our revenues and results of operations fluctuate as a result of one or more of these factors, the price of our common stock may become more volatile. The trading price of our common stock may decline. The trading price of our common stock may decline for many reasons, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others: • our results of operations; • changes in expectations as to our future results of operations, including financial estimates and projections by securities analysts and investors; • results of operations that vary from those expected by securities analysts and investors; • developments in the healthcare or insurance industries; • changes in laws and regulations; • announcements of claims against us by third parties; • future issuances or sales of our common stock, including issuances upon conversion of our outstanding convertible preferred stock; and • current and expected economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has recently experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of companies whose shares are traded. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Securities analysts may discontinue coverage of our common stock or may issue negative reports, which may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. There is no assurance that securities analysts will continue to cover our company. If securities analysts do not cover our company, this lack of coverage may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock, the trading price of our common stock may decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which, in turn, could also cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Future sales of our common stock may affect the trading price of our common stock and the future exercise of options or the exercise of the conversion rights of our convertible preferred stock may lower our stock price. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares at a time and price that you determine appropriate. As of March 1, 2009, there were 18,856,602 shares of our common stock outstanding and 1,214,770 shares of our common stock are issuable upon the conversion of shares of our outstanding convertible preferred stock. Upon conversion, these shares of common stock will be freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act. As of December 31, 2008, there were outstanding options exercisable to purchase 1,419,055 shares of our common stock, of which 1,174,055 were granted in November 2005. All options vest 20% each year commencing on the first anniversary of the date of grant. As of December 31, 2008, a total of 872,700 stock options had vested. The terms of our convertible preferred stock could adversely affect the value of our common stock. The conversion price of our convertible preferred stock is currently $20.58 per share and our outstanding convertible preferred stock is presently convertible into 1,214,770 shares of common stock. Subject to certain exceptions, the conversion price of our convertible preferred stock may decrease if we issue additional shares of our common stock for less than the market price of our common stock. Holders of our convertible preferred stock have the right to cause us to file a registration statement with the SEC to sell the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible preferred stock. Sales of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our convertible preferred stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may not pay dividends on our common stock (other than in additional shares of common stock) or repurchase shares of our common stock without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our convertible preferred stock. In the case of dividends, if holders of our convertible preferred stock consent to the payment of a dividend by us, we must pay a dividend to the holders of our convertible preferred stock on an as-converted to common stock basis equal to the dividend we pay to holders of our common stock. The terms of our articles of incorporation relating to our convertible preferred stock could impede a change of control of our company. Following a change of control, holders of our convertible preferred stock have the right to require us to redeem their shares at a redemption price of $100 per share. The redemption provisions of our convertible preferred stock could have the effect of discouraging a future change of control of our company. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the laws of the states of Texas and Louisiana could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors or otherwise effect a change of control of our company, which could diminish the value of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace or remove directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control of our company that shareholders might consider favorable. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect: • election of our directors is classified, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year; • shareholders have limited ability to call shareholder meetings and to bring business before a meeting of shareholders; 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • shareholders may not act by written consent, unless the consent is unanimous; and • our board of directors may authorize the issuance of junior preferred stock with such rights, preferences and privileges as the board deems appropriate. These provisions may make it difficult for shareholders to replace management and could have the effect of discouraging a future takeover attempt that is not approved by our board of directors, but which individual shareholders might consider favorable. We are incorporated in Texas and are subject to Part 13 of the Texas Business Corporation Act. Under this statute, our ability to enter into a business combination with any affiliated shareholder is limited. In addition, two of our three insurance company subsidiaries, American Interstate and Silver Oak Casualty, are incorporated in Louisiana and the other, American Interstate of Texas, is incorporated in Texas. Under Louisiana and Texas insurance law, advance approval by the state insurance department is required for any change of control of an insurer. “Control” is presumed to exist through the direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of a domestic insurance company or any entity that controls a domestic insurance company. Obtaining these approvals may result in the material delay of, or deter, any transaction that would result in a change of control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 