ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Market Acceptance and Sales Growth of Niaspan and Advicor The Company’s success depends in large part upon its ability to successfully market and sell increasing quantities of the Niaspan and Advicor products. The Company’s ability to successfully sell increasing quantities of the Niaspan product will depend significantly on the continued acceptance of the Niaspan product by physicians and their patients despite the commercialization of Advicor. As a consequence of the on-going commercialization of the Advicor product, which is a combination product including Niaspan and lovastatin, a statin-class compound, prescription levels for Niaspan may be adversely affected to the extent a significant number of physicians prescribe Advicor as a substitute product for their patients who are currently taking Niaspan. Such substitution could have an adverse effect on the growth of the combined revenue generated from the sale of the Company’s products. Further, there are numerous versions of niacin currently available as a dietary supplement. The Company’s ability to successfully sell increasing quantities of the Niaspan and Advicor products may be affected by the substitution of niacin dietary supplements for its products. There are also competing pharmaceutical companies, including Merck & Co., Inc., Pfizer, Inc., and Roche that are currently conducting clinical trials on therapies to increase levels of HDL cholesterol. Some of these companies are focusing on cholesterol-ester transfer protein therapy as a mechanism to improve HDL, while others are focusing on extended release niacin products and niacin-type mimetics. These new agents, if approved, would pose a significant competitive threat to Niaspan and Advicor, as they target similar mechanisms of action and/or similar cardiovascular treatment objectives. Sales could also be affected by competition from the sale of other statin products and other cholesterol therapies. The Company believes that intolerable flushing and potential liver toxicity associated with the currently available dietary supplement formulations of niacin are the principal reasons why physicians generally have been reluctant to prescribe or recommend such formulations. Flushing episodes are often characterized by facial redness, tingling or rash, and are a side effect that often occurs when humans ingest niacin. Currently available formulations of niacin generally result either, in the case of immediate-release niacin, in multiple flushing episodes, or, in the case of sustained-release niacin, in potential liver toxicity. Although most patients taking either the Niaspan or Advicor product will sometimes flush, the formulation and dosing regimen for Niaspan and Advicor have been designed to maximize patient acceptance and minimize the occurrence of flushing and liver toxicity. If, however, a significant number of patients using the Niaspan or Advicor products were to suffer episodes of flushing that they consider intolerable or to suffer other side effects, physicians may discontinue prescribing the Niaspan or Advicor products or patients may stop taking Niaspan or Advicor, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning the Niaspan or Advicor products, or any other product incorporating technology similar to that used in the Niaspan or Advicor products, also could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to (1) maintain and/or obtain regulatory approvals or (2) to achieve acceptance by prescribing physicians, managed care providers, or patients, any of which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s ability to successfully sell increasing quantities of the Advicor product will depend significantly on the continued and increasing acceptance of the Advicor product by physicians and their patients. If a significant number of patients using the Advicor product were to suffer episodes of flushing that they consider intolerable or to suffer more serious side effects, such as rhabdomyolysis or myopathy, physicians may discontinue prescribing the Advicor product or patients may stop taking Advicor, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Rhabdomyolysis is a rare disease in which serious muscle damage results in release of muscle cell contents into the bloodstream, which may be fatal. 22 Table of Contents Myopathy is a disorder of muscle tissue or muscles that can result from endocrine disorders, metabolic disorders, infection or inflammation of the muscles, and from certain drugs. There have been several cases where Niaspan (one of the principal ingredients in Advicor) or Advicor have been identified as possible causes of myopathy. In addition, Advicor may prove to be difficult to successfully sell beyond current levels because the market for cholesterol therapies is dominated by competitors with significantly larger sales forces and with significantly greater marketing resources than those available to the Company. Companies competing for the sales of the Company’s products boast well-organized direct-to-consumer advertising and strong physician and patient promotional efforts. Further, Advicor is a combination of two well-known cholesterol drugs, Niaspan and lovastatin, that have been available for a significant period of time. Although the combination of these drugs is highly effective in improving the major components of cholesterol, it is possible that physicians may not prescribe Advicor because its components are not as new as more recently introduced compounds, such as the potent statin products marketed by the Company’s competitors. Also, because Advicor is a combination of two currently available drugs, Advicor has been approved by the FDA for the improvement of cholesterol disorders in patients who were not able to achieve desired cholesterol improvements by taking either Niaspan or lovastatin alone. Consequently, although such an approved treatment indication is standard for combination drugs such as Advicor, it is possible that physicians will not prescribe Advicor until they have first prescribed either Niaspan, lovastatin, or another statin alone and subsequently determined that their patients need Advicor to achieve desired cholesterol improvements. Similarly, the Company’s ability to successfully sell increasing quantities of the Advicor product may be adversely affected by, among other things, (1) the November 2002 launch of Zetia, part of a new class of cholesterol-lowering agents, (2) the September 2003 launch of Crestor, a highly powerful statin product, or (3) the August 2004 introduction of Vytorin, a new, dual component therapy possessing significant potency with respect to reducing LDL cholesterol. Although Zetia, Crestor and Vytorin possess limited potency with respect to increasing HDL cholesterol, an increased focus of the medical community in treating LDL cholesterol could adversely affect the utilization of the Company’s products, in which the differentiated feature is modulating other lipid risk factors that have been implicated in heart disease, but are not as well established as LDL cholesterol in contributing to coronary heart disease. Zetia and Vytorin are being marketed by Merck & Co., Inc./Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals, which is a joint venture between Merck & Co., Inc. and Schering-Plough Corporation, and Crestor is marketed by AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP. Merck & Co., Inc./Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP are competitors with substantially greater resources than Kos. Zetia is part of a new class of cholesterol-lowering agents that inhibit the intestinal absorption of cholesterol. Zetia is highly effective in reducing LDL cholesterol, but it has minimal effect in reducing HDL cholesterol. Crestor is a type of statin drug that is highly effective in reducing LDL cholesterol, but is less effective in modifying HDL cholesterol, triglycerides and other forms of cholesterol. Vytorin is a combination product of the statin Zocor and Zetia that possesses significant potency with respect to reducing LDL cholesterol, but is less effective in increasing HDL cholesterol. In late 2004, a new formulation of the fibrate agent Tricor (fenofibrate) was launched by Abbott Laboratories, an agent that primarily affects triglyceride levels, but also increases HDL cholesterol. A new fenofibrate product, Antara, was also launched by Reliant Pharmaceuticals, LLC in February 2005. These new agents also pose a competitive threat to Niaspan as they affect the two lipoproteins also impacted by Niaspan. Additionally, in November 2004, the FDA approved Omacor, an omega 3 fatty acid product introduced by Reliant Pharmaceuticals, LLC for the treatment of patients with very high levels of triglycerides. Omacor competes with Niaspan in its ability to lower triglyceride levels. Further, there are at least ten versions of generic lovastatin, one of the components of Advicor, that have been launched into the large and growing market for cholesterol therapies, which could adversely affect demand for Advicor. The sale of other well-known statin therapies and other cholesterol drugs is often driven by competitors with stronger promotion and name recognition for their products. Consequently, the Company’s effort to sell increasing quantities of the Advicor product may be unsuccessful. 23 Table of Contents Sales Growth of Azmacort; Technological Feasibility of Azmacort HFA formulation There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to profitably manage the Azmacort product utilizing the Company’s sales and marketing campaigns without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial problems. The Company’s effort to commercialize the Azmacort product may require management to devote a disproportionate amount of its resources toward the commercialization and growth of Azmacort, which may divert management, sales personnel and financial resources from the Company’s other products. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that Azmacort will continue to achieve the level of revenues that were derived from its sale prior to Kos’ acquisition of Azmacort, or that the Company will continue to achieve its anticipated revenues and earnings. Prior to the Company’s acquisition of Azmacort, the product had experienced declining sales levels and increased competition from other products. The Company’s failure to manage the commercialization of the Azmacort product in a way that continues to reverse the declining trend in prescriptions of such product, the Company’s failure to achieve substantial growth in the sales of the Azmacort product, or the Company’s failure to source sufficient quantities of Azmacort from Inyx, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition. In addition, Azmacort may prove difficult to successfully sell beyond current levels due to the competitive nature of the marketplace in which the product competes. The competitive arena is dominated by Glaxo SmithKline’s Advair, supported by a significantly larger sales force than that which supports Azmacort. In addition, in 2005 the FDA approved Schering-Plough’s new inhaled cortico-steroid agent Asmanex, which is now being marketed in the United States. The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer is an international treaty under which the production and consumption of ozone-depleting substances is being phased out worldwide. Under this Protocol, codified by the United States Congress into law in Title VI of the Clean Air Act, the production of CFCs in the United States was banned as of January 1, 1996, unless a specific exemption is approved annually by the international parties to the Protocol. To comply with the Clean Air Act and the Protocol, the United States will eventually need to phase out all CFC-propelled Metered Dose Inhalers. The HFA formulation of Azmacort does not use a CFC-based propellant. Thus, to the Company’s knowledge, Azamcort HFA should not contribute to the depletion of the Earth’s ozone layer. Although Azmacort HFA has received an “approvable” letter from the FDA, the Azmacort HFA formulation was not technological feasible as of the date of the Aventis Agreements. Among the technological matters to be resolved are manufacturing controls and evidence of dose proportionality between the 75 µg and 225 µg dosage formulations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to make the Azmacort HFA formulation technologically feasible prior to an FDA decision to phase out Azmacort CFC as of a particular date in the future. Failure to obtain FDA approval and bring Azmacort HFA to market prior to, or contemporaneously with, the FDA’s phase out of Azmacort CFC in the United States could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Integration and Sales Growth of Cardizem LA, Teveten, and Teveten HCT Products There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to sustainably manage and integrate the Cardizem LA, Teveten, and Teveten HCT products into the Company’s sales and marketing campaigns without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial problems. The integration of these products into the Company’s business may prove to be expensive and time consuming and require significant management attention, which may divert management, sales personnel and financial resources from the Company’s other products. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The Company’s failure to integrate the products or sales personnel and realize the expected benefits from its acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents In addition, Teveten and Teveten HCT may prove difficult to successfully sell beyond current levels due to the competitive nature of the marketplace in which the products compete and to limited managed care coverage. The competitive arena is dominated by large players such as Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp. (Diovan), Merck & Co., Inc. (Cozaar), AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP (Atacand) and Bristol Myers Squibb Company (Avapro), all of whom have large sales organizations to support their products. In addition, newer products such as Benicar, supported by the combined efforts of Sankyo Co., Ltd and Forest Pharmaceuticals, Inc. have also recently entered the market utilizing significantly sized sales forces and strong marketing messages. Patents and Trademarks The Company’s ability to commercialize any of its products under development will depend, in part, on the Company’s or on its licensors’ ability to obtain patents, enforce those patents, preserve trade secrets, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. In addition, the patents that the Company has had issued or for which Kos has applied relating to Niaspan, Advicor and certain of the Company’s products under development are based on, among other things, the extended-release nature of the niacin active ingredient. If the indications treated by Niaspan, Advicor and such other products under development could be treated using drugs without such extended-release properties, such patents and patent applications may not prevent the use of other niacin-based drugs for the treatment of such indications, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Further, the Company would be adversely affected if: • The patent applications licensed to or owned by Kos do not result in issued patents; • Meaningful patent protection is not secured for any particular technology; or • Any patents that have been or may be issued to the Company or the Company’s licensors, including the patents covering the Company’s Niaspan, Advicor, Azmacort, Cardizem LA, Teveten or Teveten HCT, or Icatibant or any agreements relating to those patents, are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. In general, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, referred to as PTO, patents and patent applications that Kos owns or licenses are directed to formulations and their methods of use. Protection of the chemical entity is not available for the active ingredient in Niaspan, or either of the active ingredients in Advicor. Moreover, the active ingredient in Niaspan, niacin, is currently sold in the United States and other markets for lipid altering indications and for other uses. The additional active ingredient in Advicor, lovastatin, is also currently sold in the United States and other markets for lipid altering indications. Even in jurisdictions where the use of the active ingredients in Niaspan and Advicor for lipid altering and other indications may be covered by the claims of method-of-use or composition patents that Kos owns or licenses, off-label or dietary supplement sales might occur, especially if another company markets the active ingredient at a price that is less than the price of Niaspan or Advicor, thereby potentially reducing the sales of such products. The PTO has issued United States Patent numbers 6,129,930, 6,080,428, 6,406,715, 6,676,967, 6,746,691 and 6,818,229 to the Company with claims related to Niaspan’s and Advicor’s composition and method-of-use consistent with the recommended once-a-day regime. On February 7, 1997, the Company entered into an agreement with a generic manufacturer pursuant to which the Company and the manufacturer granted cross-licenses to each other under their respective patents. The Company has subsequently purchased the two patents that were the subject of the cross-license agreement and agreed to continue paying a royalty to the manufacturer on terms similar to those contained in the cross-license agreement. Certain of the Company’s marketed products are covered by one or more patents that are identified and listed with the FDA. Under provisions of the Hatch Waxman Act, 21 USC 1 et seq., a company that 25 Table of Contents desires to sell a generic version of one of the Company’s marketed products may file an Abbreviated New Drug Application, referred to as ANDA, with the FDA. In that application, the generic company may indicate that it will not sell a generic version of the Company’s marketed product until the patent(s) covering the marketed products expire, or that the generic manufacturer believes that the patent(s) listed by the Company are invalid, unenforceable or would not be infringed by the proposed generic product. This may result in costly and time consuming patent infringement litigation to defend the patent(s) covering the Company’s marketed product or, if no such patent litigation is brought or if the patent(s) are deemed invalid, unenforceable or not infringed, the introduction of a generic version of the Company’s marketed products prior to the expiration of the patent(s) covering the Company’s marketed products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, settlement of patent litigation may entail costly and time consuming administrative review by antitrust enforcement agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice Antitrust Division, and may include agency investigation and potential civil or administrative litigation. On April 12, 2005, the Company entered into the Duramed Co-promotion Agreement, the Barr License and Manufacturing Agreement, and the Barr Settlement and License Agreement, referred to as the Barr Agreements, with Barr. The Barr Agreements were entered into at about the same time as the resolution of the patent litigation involving the Company’s Niaspan products. Under the Barr License and Manufacturing Agreement, Barr agreed to stand ready to supply KLS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kos, certain quantities of Niaspan and Advicor tablets. Barr approved, and granted KLS a license to use, market and sell, at a future date, Barr’s versions of the Company’s current Niaspan and Advicor products in the United States. Barr received an initial license fee and receives quarterly payments to remain compliant with FDA current good manufacturing practices and to stand ready to meet the Company’s manufacturing requirements on short notice. The Barr Settlement and License Agreement sets forth the terms of the settlement of the litigation between Kos and Barr. It permits Barr to launch a generic version of Niaspan and Advicor, as well as future dosage formulations, strengths or modified versions of the products, under terms of an exclusive license commencing on September 20, 2013, approximately four years earlier than the last-to-expire KLS patent. Pursuant to the Duramed Co-promotion Agreement, Duramed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., referred to as Duramed, an affiliate of Barr, promotes the Company’s Niaspan and Advicor products to physicians who mostly specialize in women’s healthcare. In consideration of Duramed’s performance of its co-promotion obligations, the Company pays Duramed royalties subject to certain sales caps. On April 22, 2005, the Company provided to the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice Anti-trust Division the notifications of the settlement with Barr as required under Section 1112(a) of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. The settlement with Barr and the other arrangements with Barr and its affiliates may be reviewed by anti-trust enforcement agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice Anti-trust Division. There can be no assurances that governmental authorities will not seek to challenge the settlement with Barr or that a competitor, customer or other third party will not initiate a private action under antitrust or other laws challenging the settlement with Barr. The Company may not prevail in any such challenges or litigation and, in any event, may incur significant costs in the event of an investigation or in defending any action under antitrust laws. Because the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, the patents that Kos owns and licenses, or any future patents, may not prevent other companies from developing competing products or ensure that others will not be issued patents that may prevent the sale of the Company’s products or require licensing and the payment of significant fees or royalties. Furthermore, to the extent that (1) any of the Company’s future products or methods are not patentable, (2) such products or methods infringe upon the patents of third parties, or (3) the Company’s patents or future patents fail to give Kos an exclusive position in the subject matter to which those patents relate, the Company will be adversely affected. The Company may be 26 Table of Contents unable to avoid infringement of third party patents and may have to obtain a license, or defend an infringement action and challenge the validity of the patents in court. A license may be unavailable on terms and conditions acceptable to the Company, if at all. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming, and the Company may be unable to prevail in any such patent litigation or devote sufficient resources to even pursue such litigation. If the Company does not obtain a license under such patents, or if it is found liable for infringement and if it is not able to have such patents declared invalid, the Company may be liable for significant money damages, may encounter significant delays in bringing products to market, or may be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use, or sale of products or methods of treatment requiring such licenses. Third parties own patents relating to some of the Company’s marketed products. The Company relies on such third parties to enforce the validity of the patents and defend any infringements on the patents. If the third parties do not enforce the patents, the Company would be unable to prevent possible infringements on the patents and may be unable to prevent other companies from introducing similar generic products into the marketplace. The third parties’ failure to enforce the patents relating to the Company’s marketed products may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. On July 7, 2005, the Company received notice from Biovail that Andrx had filed with the FDA an ANDA that would, if approved, allow Andrx to market a generic version of the Cardizem LA product. Andrx’s notice letter to Biovail alleged that its proposed product would not infringe United States Patent Nos. 5,288,505 and 5,529,791, which are listed in the FDA Orange Book as covering Cardizem LA, or alternatively that those patents were invalid. Under the terms of the Biovail Agreements, if a generic drug company files an ANDA, Biovail has the first right to initiate a lawsuit, and Kos, in its discretion, may initiate suit if Biovail elects not to file suit. On August 10, 2005, a lawsuit against Andrx in Biovail’s name was commenced in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint stated that Andrx’s filing of its ANDA infringed the ‘791 patent. Andrx’s Answer denied infringement of the ‘791 patent and asserted affirmative defenses of invalidity, meaning even if Andrx did infringe the ‘791 patent, Andrx asserted the patent is invalid. In addition, Andrx counterclaimed for declaratory judgment of non-infringement and invalidity. Andrx sought no monetary relief, other than recovery of attorneys’ fees and costs. Upon receiving a second Paragraph IV certification from Andrx directed to additional Cardizem LA tablet strengths of 120, 180, 240, 300, and 360 mg added by amendment to Andrx’s ANDA (“Amended Andrx ANDA”), on October 14, 2005, a second complaint was filed in Biovail’s name (Civil Action No. 05-730) in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint asserted that Andrx’s Amended ANDA infringed the ‘791 patent. Andrx’s Answer denied infringement of the ‘791 patent and asserted affirmative defenses of invalidity, meaning even if Andrx did infringe the ‘791 patent, Andrx asserted the patent is invalid. In addition, Andrx counterclaimed for declaratory judgment of non-infringement and invalidity. Andrx sought no monetary relief, other than recovery of attorneys’ fees and costs. Civil actions 05-586 and 05-730 have been consolidated by the Court for all purposes. Under the current case schedule, fact and expert discovery is scheduled to close on September 5, 2006, and trial is scheduled for April 9, 2007. These dates, however, may change. If the patents relating to Cardizem LA are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed, the Company and Biovail would be unable to prevent Andrx from producing and marketing a generic version of the Cardizem LA product, which could be sold at prices lower than those the Company charges. This would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The Company and Biovail would also be unable to prevent other companies from introducing similar generic products into the marketplace. 27 Table of Contents Future Capital Needs; Uncertainty of Additional Funding The Company could borrow from Michael Jaharis, the Company’s principal shareholder, Director and Chairman Emeritus and/or his transferees up to $30 million under an agreement currently in place through June 30, 2008. However, before the Company can borrow from Mr. Jaharis, the conditions of borrowings must be satisfied including, without limitation, that the death of lender shall not have occurred, the lender, his spouse, children and entities they control continue to own at least 40% of Common Stock of the Company, and no material adverse change shall have occurred to the Company or its financial condition. The repayment of funds borrowed from Mr. Jaharis is secured by the pledge of all of the Company’s assets to him. As a result, if the Company is unable to repay the loans as they become due, the Company could be forced to liquidate the Company’s assets or transfer all of such assets to Mr. Jaharis and his transferees. On January 10, 2005, Mr. Jaharis gifted his rights and obligations under the facility to his wife. The Company has spent, and will continue to be required to spend, substantial funds to continue research and development activities, including clinical trials of the Company’s products under development, and to commercialize the Niaspan, Advicor, Azmacort, Teveten, Teveten HCT and Cardizem LA products, referred to as the Product Portfolio, products and the Company’s other products under development, if regulatory approvals are obtained for such products under development. The Company also anticipates that it will have to incur significant capital expenditures related to the expansion of its production and administrative facilities. The Company believes that it has sufficient resources, including funds available to it under a line of credit from Mrs. Jaharis, to fund the Company’s operations through at least the next twelve months. Even with the proceeds from these sources, however, the Company may need or elect to raise additional capital prior to such date. The Company’s ability to fund its operating requirements and maintain an adequate level of working capital for the next twelve months will depend primarily on: (1) the near-term commercial success of its Product Portfolio; (2) its ability to meet the conditions necessary to obtain funding under its line of credit, including, without limitation, that the death of Mr. Jaharis shall not have occurred, the lender, his spouse, children and entities they control continue to own at least 40% of Common Stock of the Company, and no material adverse change shall have occurred to the Company or its financial condition; (3) the problems, delays, expenses and complications frequently encountered by companies at this stage of development; (4) the progress of the Company’s research, development, and clinical trial programs; (5) the costs and timing of seeking regulatory approvals of the Company’s products under development; (6) the Company’s ability to obtain such regulatory approvals in the United States and abroad; (7) costs associated with filing, prosecuting, defending, litigating and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; (8) the Company’s ability to manufacture and supply (or have manufactured and supplied) sufficient quantities of the products comprising its Product Portfolio; (9) the extent and terms of any collaborative research, manufacturing, marketing, joint venture or other arrangements; (10) the Company’s ability to maintain coverage and reimbursement of its products by government agencies and the effects of the loss of such coverage and reimbursement with such agencies, such as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services; (11) reduction of inventory levels in the Company’s distribution channels as a result of inventory management agreements; (12) the Company’s ability to ensure compliance with prescription drug sales and marketing laws and regulations; and (13) changes in economic, regulatory, or competitive conditions or the Company’s planned business. Estimates about the adequacy of funding for the Company’s activities are based on certain assumptions, including assumptions regarding the marketing and sales success of the Company’s Product Portfolio the outcome of litigation related to the Company’s intellectual property rights, including the litigation between Andrx and Biovail relating to the Cardizem product, and that testing and regulatory procedures relating to the Company’s other products under development can be conducted at projected costs and within projected time frames. To the extent these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, the Company may have insufficient resources to fund its operations as currently planned. 28 Table of Contents To satisfy the Company’s capital requirements, it may seek to raise funds in the public or private capital markets. The Company’s ability to raise additional funds in the public markets may be adversely affected (1) if sales of the products comprising its Product Portfolio do not increase rapidly; (2) if the results of the clinical trials for the Company’s products under development are not favorable; or (3) if regulatory approval for any of the Company’s products under development is not obtained. The Company may seek additional funding through corporate collaborations and other financing vehicles. If adequate funds are not available to the Company, or if available, their terms are unacceptable, the Company may be required to significantly reduce its marketing activities for one or more of the products comprising its Product Portfolio or curtail significantly one or more of the Company’s research or development programs. In addition, the Company may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with future collaborative partners or others that may require the Company to relinquish rights to one or more of the products comprising its Product Portfolio or to some or all of the Company’s technologies or products under development or take significant cost-reducing actions or both. If the Company is successful in obtaining additional financing, the terms of the financing may have the effect of diluting or adversely affecting the holdings or the rights of the holders of the Company’s securities. Registration Rights The Company has granted certain registration rights to its controlling shareholder, Mr. Jaharis, his spouse, and their transferees, and to Kos Investments, Inc. and Kos Holdings, Inc., which entitle such persons and entities to cause the Company to effect an unlimited number of registrations under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) of sales of up to an aggregate of 23,503,367 shares of the Company’s Common Stock owned or controlled by such persons or entities or that could be acquired by such person or entities upon exercise or conversion of securities they currently hold. These registration rights generally would also permit the holders of such rights to include shares in any registration statement that the Company otherwise filed. By exercising these registration rights, these persons and entities could cause a large number of shares to be registered and become freely tradeable without restrictions under the Securities Act (except for those purchased in the offering by the Company’s affiliates) immediately upon the effectiveness of such registration. Such sales may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Common Stock and could impair the Company’s ability to raise additional capital. Limited Sales and Marketing Resources Although the products comprising the Product Portfolio are marketed by the Company’s own sales forces or through co-promotion or commercialization partners, substantial resources will continue to be required for Kos to promote the sale of its products. Because its current marketing resources are limited, the Company may be unable to devote sufficient resources to any one or more of its products, or to the Company’s products under development or to be acquired or licensed, or to achieve increasing market acceptance of such products in the highly competitive marketplace in which the Company’s products compete. The Company’s failure to expend the resources to adequately promote the existing promoted products or its other products under development would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Moreover, because the Company has fewer sales persons than its competitors, the Company’s sales force or its co-promotion and commercialization partners’ sales forces may be unable to detail successfully physicians who prescribe competitor therapies or other medications. The Company may not be able to retain its current sales representatives. The Company’s co-promotion and commercialization partners’ may not be able to retain their current sales representatives. Even if the Company hires additional representatives, they may not be immediately effective in promoting the sale of the Company’s existing products. The Company’s competitors may effectively counter-act the marketing efforts of the Company and its co-promotion and commercialization partners. As a result, Kos may be unable to generate significantly increased sales of the existing promoted products. The failure of the Company to generate increased sales of the existing products would have a material adverse effect on operating results. 29 Table of Contents Control by Existing Shareholder Michael Jaharis, the Company’s principal shareholder and a director, beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, including as a member of a group, 24,461,068 shares of the Company’s Common Stock as of December 31, 2005, or approximately 52% of the Common Stock outstanding. Accordingly, Mr. Jaharis can control the outcome of certain shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. This level of concentrated ownership by one person may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in the management or voting control of Kos. Competition and Technological Change Many products are commercially available for the treatment of elevated LDL cholesterol, and the manufacturers of such products, individually and collectively, have significantly greater financial resources and sales and manufacturing capabilities than those available to Kos, including combined field sales forces exceeding 15,000 persons, compared with the Company’s approximately 465-person cardiovascular field sales force and the sales force of its co-promotion partners. The Company’s cardiovascular products face numerous competitors; some of the leading competitors and their respective competitive products include, among others: • Abbott (Tricor) • Bristol-Myers Squibb (Pravachol) • Merck (Zocor and Mevacor) • Novartis (Lescol) • Pfizer (Lipitor, Caduet and Lopid) • Sankyo (Welchol) • Reliant (Antara and Omacor) • Merck/Schering-Plough (Zetia and Vytorin) • AstraZeneca (Crestor) The Company estimates that the existing Niaspan and Advicor prescriptions account for approximately 3.4% of the total prescriptions currently being written in the United States for cholesterol-altering pharmaceutical compounds. In addition, Zetia, part of a new class of cholesterol-lowering agents that inhibit the intestinal absorption of cholesterol, was launched in November 2002 by Merck & Co., Inc./Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals. Crestor, a highly powerful statin product, was launched during September 2003 by AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP. Vytorin, a combination product of the statin Zocor and Zetia, was launched in July 2004 by Merck & Co., Inc./Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals, which is a joint venture between Merck & Co., Inc. and Schering-Plough Corporation. Both Merck & Co., Inc./Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP are competitors who have substantially greater resources than those available to Kos. Finally, there are at least nine versions of generic lovastatin, one of the components of Advicor, currently being marketed in the cholesterol market. The existence of distributors of generic lovastatin and the competitive environment they create may inhibit the Niaspan and Advicor products from competing successfully or from achieving increased sales. Further, there is ongoing discussion at the FDA concerning the potential approval of lovastatin as an over-the-counter drug. The sheer size and rapid growth of the patient population for which cholesterol therapies are indicated, continue to induce new entry of competing cardiovascular and cholesterol products. Moreover, the active ingredient in Niaspan, niacin, is available in several other formulations, most of which do not require a prescription. Although the Company believes that there are no other currently available niacin formulations that the FDA has approved specifically for once-a-day dosing, physicians may decide to prescribe or recommend some of these unapproved niacin formulations, using the Niaspan 30 Table of Contents product’s dosing regimen to try to achieve the same results as Niaspan. Further, there are competing pharmaceutical companies including Merck & Co., Inc., Pfizer, Inc. and Roche that are currently conducting clinical trials on therapies to increase levels of HDL cholesterol. Some of these companies are focusing on cholesterol-ester transfer protein therapy as a mechanism to improve HDL, while others are focusing on extended release niacin products and niacin-type mimetics. Substitution of other niacin formulations for the Niaspan product could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Moreover, manufacturers of other niacin formulations could promote their products using the Niaspan product’s dosing regimen and could promote the sale of their products to treat the indications for which the Company has received clearance to market Niaspan. Although such promotion may be a violation of FDA regulations, the significant occurrence of such practices would have a material adverse effect on the company. The emergence of new cholesterol-management products or generic entry would have a material adverse effect on the Company. There are also many products that are commercially available for the treatment of the respiratory condition addressed by Azmacort, and the manufacturers of such products have significantly greater financial resources and sales and manufacturing capabilities than those available to Kos, including combined field sales forces exceeding 5,500 persons, compared with the Company’s approximately 50-person field sales force. The primary competitors of the Azmacort product include, among others: • GlaxoSmithKline (Advair and Flovent ) • Forest (Aerobid) • AstraZeneca (Pulmicort) • Schering-Plough (Asmanex and Vanceril) • Ivax (QVAR) There are also many products that are commercially available for the treatment of the hypertension addressed by Cardizem LA, Teveten, and Teveten HCT, and the manufacturers of such products have significantly greater financial resources and sales and manufacturing capabilities than those available to Kos, including combined field sales forces exceeding 10,000 persons promoting products in the calcium channel blocker and/or Angiotensin Receptor Blocker therapeutic areas, compared with the Company’s approximately 180-person field sales force. The primary competitors of the Cardizem LA, Teveten and Teveten HCT products include, among others: • Pfizer (Norvasc) • Astra Zeneca (Atacand) • Bristol-Myers Squibb (Avapro) • Sankyo/Forest (Benicar) • Merck (Cozaar) • Novartis (Diovan/Diovan HCT) Moreover, many established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, and other research institutions with resources significantly greater than Kos’ may develop products that directly compete with the Company’s products. Even if the Company’s products under development prove to be more effective than those developed by other entities, such other entities may be more successful in marketing their products than Kos because of greater financial resources, stronger sales and marketing efforts, and other factors. If these entities are successful in developing products that are safer, more effective, better promoted, or less costly than the Kos’ products, the Company’s products may be unable to compete successfully with any of those products. 31 Table of Contents International Commercialization Agreement with Merck KGaA On October 23, 2002, the Company signed an exclusive international commercialization agreement with Merck KGaA to market the Niaspan and Advicor products outside the United States, Canada and Japan. Under the terms of the Merck Agreement, Merck KGaA will provide Kos up to $61 million in licensing, milestone and reimbursement payments. Through December 31, 2005, Kos has received $20.0 million in upfront, reimbursement, and milestone payments from Merck KGaA, including $15.0 million of upfront and reimbursement payments. Kos is responsible for obtaining initial marketing authorization in all European countries and the supply and manufacturing of the products. Pursuant to certain provisions of the Merck Agreement, if marketing authorization is not obtained for Niaspan and Advicor in certain countries and within certain timeframes, Kos will be required to refund to Merck KGaA up to $3.8 million of the upfront payments. In addition, other milestone payments payable to Kos under the Merck Agreement are dependent on the achievement of marketing authorization of Niaspan in certain countries, the achievement of marketing authorization of Advicor in certain countries, and achieving certain net sales thresholds of Niaspan and Advicor. In 1999, Kos received marketing approval for Niaspan in the United Kingdom, and in 2002, submitted Advicor for marketing approval in the United Kingdom. In November 2003, Merck KGaA launched the sale of Niaspan in the United Kingdom. With this launch and the December 2003 completion of the then European Union’s Mutual Recognition Procedure, referred to as MRP, Niaspan has been registered in a total of 14 European markets, including such other markets as France, Germany, Austria, Ireland, Belgium and the Netherlands. The product has now been launched in 11 of these countries. Merck KGaA and Kos also plan to initiate a Repeat Use MRP for the additional European countries that were added to the European Union in 2004. In addition, Niaspan has been approved in other countries outside the European Union, including Lebanon and certain Latin American countries. There is no certainty that further marketing authorization for the Niaspan product and final authorization for the Advicor product will be obtained under the MRP, or, with respect to Advicor, at all, and there could be delays in the granting of such authorizations. Consequently, Kos may be required to reimburse Merck KGaA for up to $3.8 million of the upfront payments and may not receive any further milestone payments under the Merck Agreement. No Assurance of Adequate Third-Party Reimbursement The Company’s ability to commercialize successfully its products under development is dependent in part on the extent to which appropriate levels of reimbursement for the Niaspan, Advicor, Azmacort, Cardizem LA, Teveten and Teveten HCT products are obtained from government authorities, private health insurers, and managed care organizations such as health maintenance organizations or HMOs. The Company estimates that, through December 31, 2005, approximately $1.4 billion, or 74%, of the Company’s cumulative Niaspan, Advicor, Azmacort, Cardizem LA, Teveten and Teveten HCT revenue has been subjected to the reimbursement rules of such organizations. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of pharmaceutical products. The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of organizations such as HMOs, and legislative and regulatory proposals to reform healthcare and government programs providing pharmaceutical coverage could significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and reduced demand for Niaspan, Advicor, Azmacort, Cardizem LA, Teveten and Teveten HCT products, or the Company’s products under development. Such cost containment measures and potential legislative and regulatory reform could affect the Company’s ability to sell Niaspan, Advicor, Azmacort, Cardizem LA, Teveten, and Teveten HCT or its products under development and may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Significant uncertainty exists about the reimbursement and coverage status of newly approved pharmaceutical products. Although the Company has obtained approvals for reimbursement and coverage for the cost of Niaspan, Advicor, Azmacort, Cardizem LA, Teveten, and Teveten HCT products from many third-party payors, such approvals, in the United States and in foreign countries, may be restricted or discontinued and the Company may fail to secure 32 Table of Contents reimbursement or coverage for its products that are under development. The unavailability or inadequacy of third-party reimbursement or coverage for Niaspan, Advicor, Azmacort, Cardizem LA, Teveten, and Teveten HCT or the Company’s products under development or those that may be acquired or licensed, may reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, these products, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company was recently informed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, referred to as CMS, that plans operating under Part D (the New Medicare prescription drug program) may consider Niaspan to be a Part D drug through May 31, 2006, but may not consider Niaspan to be a Part D drug thereafter. CMS will not, therefore, reimburse any Part D plan for Niaspan and standard Part D plans may not cover Niaspan, after May 31, 2006. CMS’ decision not to reimburse patients for Niaspan is based on its determination that Niaspan is a “prescription vitamin”. Following initial discussions with CMS, the Company sought FDA authorization to revise the Niaspan package insert and labeling language to correctly define Niaspan as a therapeutic agent used in the treatment of dyslipidema and to clarify that Niaspan is not a “prescription vitamin”. The FDA authorized the proposed labeling change for immediate use with the revised wording and written confirmation of such acceptance by the FDA is expected within the next few months. The Company has intensified its efforts to secure reimbursement for Niaspan under Part D of the Medicare program but there is no guarantee that these efforts will be successful. The failure to secure coverage for Niaspan under Part D of the Medicare program could reduce the demand for Niaspan by patients with coverage under the Part D program. Additionally, any decision by CMS to consider Niaspan a Part D drug does not guarantee that any particular Part D plan will include Niaspan in its formulary. Further, if Niaspan were to become a Part D drug, payment levels would depend on rebate contracts negotiated by the Company with each Part D plan sponsor. To the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow Medicare coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects of the lack of Medicare coverage and reimbursement developments may extend to private insurers adopting restricted coverage or lower reimbursement policies, which could also result in reduced demand for Niaspan. A reduction in the number of prescriptions written for Niaspan could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Dependence on Collaborators The Company relies on various third parties for certain aspects of the development, manufacture and promotion of the Company’s present and planned products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to enter into future collaborative arrangements on favorable terms, or at all. Even if the Company is successful in entering into such collaborative agreements, there can be no assurance that any such arrangement will be successful. The success of any such arrangement is dependent on, among other things, the skills, experience and efforts of the third party’s employees responsible for the project, the third party’s commitment to the arrangement, and the third party’s financial condition, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. Dependence on Key Personnel The Company’s success is dependent on the Company’s ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, management, and sales personnel. In April 2001, the Company hired its current President and Chief Executive Officer, Adrian Adams. The loss of Mr. Adams as the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer could have a material adverse effect on its operations and business. Due to intense competition for personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities, and other organizations, the Company may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining key personnel. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain the additional, highly-skilled employees required for the continuation and expansion of Kos’ activities, could adversely affect its business and operating results. 33 Table of Contents Products Under Development Although the Company has obtained clearance from the FDA to market the products comprising its Product Portfolio, the Company may be unsuccessful in effectively formulating any of its other products as planned. Further, the Company may not be successful in demonstrating the safety and efficacy of such products in human clinical trials. These trials may be costly and time-consuming. The administration of any product the Company develops may produce undesirable side effects that could result in the interruption, delay or suspension of clinical trials, or the failure to obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for any or all targeted indications. Even if regulatory approval is secured, the Company’s products under development may later produce adverse effects that limit or prevent their widespread use or that necessitate their withdrawal from the market. The Company may discontinue the development of any of its products under development at any time. Acquisition of Products As part of the Company’s growth strategy, the Company intends to acquire and develop additional product candidates or approved products. The success of this strategy depends upon Kos’ ability to identify, select and acquire pharmaceutical products that meet the criteria it has established. Any product candidate the Company acquires will require additional research and development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive pre-clinical and/or clinical testing and approval by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be safe, non-toxic and effective or approved by regulatory authorities. In addition, the Company cannot assure that any approved products that it develops or acquires will be: (1) manufactured or produced economically; (2) successfully commercialized; (3) widely accepted in the marketplace or that the Company will be able to recover its significant expenditures in connection with the development or acquisition of such products. In addition, proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with the Company for the acquisition of product candidates and approved products. The Company may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that it finds acceptable, or at all. In addition, if the Company acquires product candidates from third parties, the Company will be dependent on third parties to supply such products to the Company for sale. The Company could be materially adversely affected by the failure or inability of such suppliers to meet performance, reliability and quality standards. 34 Table of Contents Government Regulation; No Assurances of Regulatory Approval and Investigation by Federal and State Agencies The Company’s research and development activities, preclinical studies, clinical trials, and the manufacturing and marketing of the Company’s products are subject to extensive FDA regulation. The drug development and approval process takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approval. Although the Company may consult the FDA for guidance in developing protocols for clinical trials, despite such consultation, the FDA may find the clinical trials inadequate or not well-controlled. They may also reject the results of those trials altogether. In addition, delays or rejections of applications for regulatory approval may result from changes in or additions to FDA regulations concerning the drug approval process. Thus, regulatory reviews may be untimely and regulatory approvals could be denied for products that the Company develops. Even if regulatory approval of a product is obtained in the United States or in a foreign country, the approval will be limited as to the indicated uses for which it may be promoted or marketed. In addition, a marketed drug, its bulk chemical supplier, its manufacturer, and its manufacturing facilities are subject to continual regulatory review and periodic inspections, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, supplier, manufacturer, or facility may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturers, which may require a withdrawal of the product from the market. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements in the United States or abroad can, among other things, result in fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, seizure of products, product recalls, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecution, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Kos. Outside the United States, the Company’s research and development activities, preclinical studies, clinical trials, and the manufacturing and marketing of the Company’s products are subject to extensive foreign regulation. In the European Union, the approval of new drugs is governed by the central approval or mutual recognition procedures of the European Medicines Evaluation Agency. In 1999, the Company received marketing approval for Niaspan in the United Kingdom, and in 2002, submitted Advicor for marketing approval in the United Kingdom. Under the Merck Agreement, the Company is responsible for obtaining initial marketing authorization for the Niaspan and Advicor products in the European Union. There could be delays or rejections in applications for regulatory approval in Europe and in other countries, as well a requirement of completion of additional preclinical and clinical studies. The process of obtaining regulatory approval could be costly. In addition, the Company’s competitors may obtain regulatory approval for similar products. Furthermore, individual countries will have pricing, third party reimbursement and labeling approvals necessary for the manufacture, distribution, use and sale of products with which the Company must comply. Moreover, because the legislative and regulatory environment continues to evolve in the United States and abroad, it is difficult to predict the impact of legislation and regulations on the Company and its products. The Company is also subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the United States Department of Health and Human Services, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice. Individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. These regulatory authorities have wide-ranging administrative powers to deal with any failure to comply with their ongoing regulatory oversight. These powers include withdrawal of a license approval previously granted, product recalls, seizure of products and other sanctions for non-compliance. In February 2005, Kos learned that the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, referred to as the OIG, in conjunction with the U.S. Department of Justice, is conducting an investigation of Kos’ marketing and sales practices. It appears that the investigation arises out of allegations that Kos engaged in potentially improper sales and marketing practices. The Company believes that the federal investigation was initiated as a result of a complaint filed under seal by a third party, known as “qui tam” or “whistleblower” complaint, under the federal False Claims Act, which permits private individuals to bring confidential actions on behalf of the government. Because any qui tam complaint, if filed, is under seal, the Company has not been able to review it. 35 Table of Contents In March 2005, the United States Department of Justice, through the Office of the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, served an investigative subpoena on Kos, referred to as the Wisconsin Subpoena. The Wisconsin Subpoena requests production of a variety of documents relating to Kos’ marketing and sales practices. Kos has produced a number of documents in response to the Wisconsin Subpoena and continues to provide the government with additional responsive documents. In March 2006, the United States Department of Justice, through the Office of the United States Attorney for the Western District of Louisiana, served an investigative subpoena on Kos, referred to as the Louisiana Subpoena. Similar to the Wisconsin Subpoena, the Louisiana Subpoena requests a variety of documents relating to Kos’ marketing and sales practices. In addition, the Louisiana Subpoena requests information relating to Kos’ calculation and reporting of average manufacturer price, referred to as AMP, and best price under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program as set forth at 42 U.S.C. § 1396r-8, referred to as Best Price. Kos has engaged outside counsel to assist it in conducting its own internal investigation of the issues raised in the Wisconsin Subpoena and Louisiana Subpoena and in its production of documents. The inquiries described above arise in an environment of rising costs for prescription drugs and heightened public scrutiny of the pharmaceutical industry and its practices. This public scrutiny is characterized by extensive press coverage, ongoing attention in Congress and in state legislatures, and investigations and public statements by law enforcement officials. These factors contribute to the uncertainty regarding the possible course and outcome of the matters discussed above. While Kos believes that it is currently in substantial compliance with health care and other laws applicable to Kos, the information requested by the investigating authorities is not limited to Kos’ current business operations or practices but extends back to 1997 in the case of the Louisiana Subpoena and 2000 in the case of the Wisconsin Subpoena. Kos has compliance measures in place that are designed to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements, but there can be no assurance that such compliance measures are, or have been, sufficient or that employees will not deviate, or have not deviated in the past, from the Company’s policies and legal requirements in such a way that it would have a material adverse effect on Kos’ ability to defend any proceedings brought by the OIG, the U.S. Department of Justice, or any qui tam relator or others. Currently, management cannot predict the timing or outcome of these pending investigations and inquiries and whether they will have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. An adverse outcome in any one of the matters described above could result in substantial civil and/or criminal fines, other monetary damages, material changes to Kos’ business practices, and exclusion from federal healthcare programs. As a result, such matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s business is also subject to regulation under state, federal and local laws, rules, regulations, and policies relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety, including those governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling, and disposal of certain materials. The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with all such laws, rules, regulations, and policies applicable to Kos. However, non-compliance with such environmental and health and safety laws and regulations in the future would require Kos to incur significant costs to comply. The Company’s research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials. Although the Company believes that its safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable state, federal, and local regulations, the risk of contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such contamination or injury, the Company could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed its resources and materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents Manufacturing The Company’s manufacturing facilities, and those of its third party manufacturers, are and will continue to be subject to, ongoing, periodic inspection by the FDA, state and other countries’ agencies to ensure, among other things, compliance with current good manufacturing practices. The Company’s (and its suppliers’) failure to follow and document adherence to such current good manufacturing practices regulations or other regulatory requirements may lead to significant delays in the availability of the Company’s products for commercial use or clinical study, may result in the termination or hold of a clinical study, or may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for Kos’ products. The Company also may encounter problems with, among other things, the following: • achieving consistent and acceptable production yield and costs; • meeting product release specifications; • quality control and assurance; • shortages of qualified manufacturing personnel; • shortages of raw materials; • shortages of key contractors; and • ongoing compliance with FDA and other regulations. Any of the foregoing could result in the Company being unable to manufacture and supply (or have manufactured and supplied) sufficient quantities of its products to meet the demands of its customers, or to fulfill orders from its international marketing partners. The Company’s failure for any reason to manufacture and supply sufficient quantities of its products would have a material adverse impact on the Company and its financial condition. The extent of such adverse effect would depend on the nature, timing, scope and duration of the manufacturing issues. The Company currently has a qualified contract manufacturer for certain of its products. The Company also has certain qualified backup manufacturing capability under the Barr License and Manufacturing Agreement. Failure to comply with applicable manufacturing regulations could also result in sanctions being imposed on the Company, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of the Company’s products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm the Company’s business. If the Company is unable to manufacture its products for any reason, the Company’s options for outsourcing manufacturing are currently limited. It would take a substantial period of time for a contract manufacturing facility, other than Barr, that has not been producing the Company’s particular products to begin producing them under current good manufacturing practices regulations. Limited Manufacturing Experience; Risk of Scale-Up The Company currently manufactures the Niaspan and Advicor products in one manufacturing plant in Edison, New Jersey that the FDA has inspected and approved for both Niaspan and Advicor. Although both products have been approved for manufacture in the Edison facility, Barr has a facility standing ready to manufacture these products, when and if approved, and Niaspan 500mg has been approved for manufacture and is being manufactured in a third party manufacturer’s facility, the Company or its third party suppliers may identify inefficiencies or other problems that may exist in the manufacturing process. The Company or its third party suppliers may need to further scale-up some of their respective current manufacturing processes to achieve production levels consistent with the commercial sale of the 37 Table of Contents Company’s products. Further, modifications to the Company’s or its third party suppliers’ facilities, systems, and procedures may be necessary to maintain capacity at a level sufficient to meet market demand or to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices regulations and other regulations prescribed by various regulatory agencies, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency. The Company’s or its third party suppliers’ failure to successfully further scale-up, expand in connection with manufacture for commercial sale, or modify the Company’s manufacturing process or to comply with current good manufacturing practices regulations and other regulations could delay the approval of the Company’s products under development or limit its ability to meet the demand for its products, any of which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Such occurrences may require Kos to acquire alternative means of manufacturing the Company’s products, which may not be available on a timely basis, on commercially practicable terms, or at all. Dependence on Single Sources of Supply Some materials used in the Company’s products, including the active ingredients in Niaspan and Advicor, are currently sourced from single qualified suppliers. The Company has not established arrangements with alternative suppliers for these ingredients, although the Company believes that it can obtain an alternative supply of lovastatin, one of the two active ingredients in Advicor, if necessary. Although the Company has maintained a business relationship with its niacin supplier since 1993, and has not experienced difficulty to date in acquiring niacin, or other materials for product development, additional product validations and regulatory submissions would be required if supply interruptions were to occur in the future or if the Company had to obtain substitute materials. Although the Company has maintained a business relationship with its lovastatin supplier since 1997, and this supplier is experienced as a supplier of other pharmaceutical grade active ingredients, this supplier may be unable to meet the Company’s requirements for lovastatin on a sustained basis, at an acceptable quality standard, or at a commercially viable price. In such an event, the Company would be forced to obtain an alternative supplier of lovastatin. Any interruption of raw material supply, for any reason, in any of the required ingredients for the Company’s products could have a material adverse effect on Kos’ ability to manufacture its products or to obtain or maintain regulatory approval of such products. On March 31, 2005, Inyx acquired the assets and business of Aventis Pharmaceuticals Puerto Rico, Inc., an affiliate of Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc., that had previously agreed to a five-year manufacturing commitment to produce Azmacort for the Company. In connection with this acquisition, the Company and Inyx agreed to, among other things, a new ten-year term to produce Azmacort for the Company. The Company relies solely on Inyx to manufacture and supply adequate quantities of the finished Azmacort product, and the Company cannot provide any assurances that Inyx will be able to produce sufficient quantities of the Azmacort product to meet the Company’s requirements. The Azmacort product can be difficult to produce and Inyx is inexperienced in its production. Moreover, the production of Azmacort requires the assembly of several different components, the unavailability of any of which can result in an interruption in the supply of finished Azmacort product to the Company. The manufacture and assembly of each of the components, in addition to the qualification of the raw materials used in the finished Azmacort product, is subject to regulatory approval. If Kos, Inyx, or Inyx’s suppliers are unable to maintain the regulatory approval for such components, raw materials or finished product, or are unable to manufacture and store them in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, Inyx may not be able to supply the Company with sufficient quantities of the finished Azmacort product. The Company is dependent on the performance by Inyx and other third party manufacturers and their suppliers for the manufacture and supply of the finished Azmacort, and the Company cannot provide any assurance of their willingness or ability to perform their manufacturing responsibilities in the future. The Company also relies solely on third party suppliers to manufacture and supply adequate quantities of the finished Cardizem LA, Teveten, and Teveten HCT products. As such, the Company cannot provide any assurances that such third party suppliers will be able to produce sufficient quantities of such products to meet the Company’s requirements. 38 Table of Contents Any interruption of supply, for any reason, of the finished Azmacort, Cardizem LA, Teveten or Teveten HCT products to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Best Price and Other Potential Price Reporting Issues On or around January 31, 2006, the Company notified CMS that in calculating the Medicaid rebate pricing components for its products for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company determined that the calculation of Best Price should be adjusted. Consequently, the Best Price reported for the Company’s products for fourth quarter 2005 reflect this cumulative adjustment. The Company also reported to CMS that the Company is reviewing its price reporting methodologies and their application to the Company’s current fiscal quarter and for earlier quarters and that, after completing this review, it would report to CMS when the Company determined what, if any, recalculations should be made. Based on the outcome of the Company’s review of its price reporting methodologies, the Company may be required to revise the prices reported under the Company’s federal Medicaid rebate agreement and certain state agreements, and to pay the corresponding revised rebate liability amounts under those programs for prior periods. The Company cannot provide assurance that such amounts will not be material or that the Company will not be subjected to the imposition of fines, penalties, and injunctive or administrative remedies as a result of a failure to correctly calculate the Best Price, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Wholesaler and Distributor Buying Patterns Wholesalers and distributors represent a substantial portion of our sales. Buying patterns of Kos’ wholesalers and distributors may vary from time to time principally as a result of pricing or seasonality. Although Kos attempts to match shipments with end-user demand, which is reflective of prescriptions for its marketed products, wholesalers may accumulate inventory in one quarter and limit product purchases in subsequent quarters, which could have a material effect on Kos’ financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. During the last few years, in an effort to minimize the fluctuation of wholesaler and distributors’ buying patterns, many companies in the pharmaceutical industry have been establishing inventory management agreements, referred to as IMAs, between the manufacturers and their wholesalers and distributors. Through February 22, 2006, Kos had executed IMAs with three of its largest customers. In addition, Kos believes that it has employed a disciplined methodology to approximately match patient demand for its marketed products to product shipments made to its other wholesale and distribution customers. The Company believes it is beneficial to enter into IMAs to establish specified levels of product inventory to be maintained by its direct customers and to obtain more precise information as to the level of Kos product inventory available throughout the product distribution channel. The Company also plans to enter similar agreements with certain of its other wholesalers and distributors. These IMAs could impose additional costs or revenue deductions on Kos. The Company’s ability to enter into additional mutually beneficial IMAs is dependent, among other things, on its ability to negotiate acceptable agreement terms with its customers, and on the commercial success of its products. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to successfully negotiate and enter into additional IMAs on terms acceptable to Kos with all of its other wholesale customers. If additional IMAs cannot be successfully negotiated with some of its wholesale customers, the Company may not be able to maintain existing product wholesale distribution arrangements without an active IMA and the Company’s product distribution channel, revenues, profits and cash flows may be disrupted. The Company may also be forced to reduce the number of its wholesale customers to those willing to continue distributing the Company’s products 39 Table of Contents through existing wholesale distribution arrangements, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Even if the Company is successful in entering into mutually beneficial IMAs, the Company cannot be certain that the IMAs will be effective in limiting speculative purchasing activity, that there will not be a future drawdown of inventory, that the inventory level data provided through its IMAs are accurate, or that inventory levels will match end-user demand. If speculative purchasing does occur, if inventory level data provided through IMAs is inaccurate, or if purchases do not match actual end-user demand, the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations may also be adversely affected. Furthermore, the Company’s current IMAs require that the respective wholesalers maintain a certain level of the Company’s inventory. The Company currently believes that this inventory level requirement may result in a reduction of inventory in the Company’s distribution channels during the year ended December 31, 2006, equivalent to approximately $45 million in net sales. Risk of Product Liability Claims; No Assurance of Adequate Insurance Manufacturing, marketing, selling, and testing the products comprising the Company’s Product Portfolio and the Company’s products under development or to be acquired or licensed, entails a risk of product liability. On August 8, 2001, Bayer AG, removed its statin product, Baycol, from the market because of multiple deaths attributed to a rare form of a muscle disorder called rhabdomyolysis. As a result of the removal of Baycol from the market, the side affects of statin products have been subject to increased scrutiny. Although the FDA has approved the statin component of Advicor, it has been marketed for nearly 18 years, and is a different drug compound than the drug compounds used in Baycol, to the extent that patients who take Advicor develop serious adverse side affects, such as rhabdomyolysis, or associate the adverse events that some Baycol patients experience with all other statin products, including the Company’s Advicor product, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company could be subject to product liability claims if its products or products under development fail to perform as intended. Even unsuccessful claims could result in (1) the expenditure of substantial funds in litigation, (2) the diversion of management time and resources, and (3) damage to the Company’s reputation and marketability of its products. While the Company currently maintains liability insurance, the Company may not be able to maintain such insurance at a commercially reasonable cost. If a successful claim were made against the Company, and the amount of insurance were inadequate to cover the costs of defending against or paying such a claim, or the damages Kos had to pay, the Company would experience a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. Possible Stock Price Volatility The stock market, including the Nasdaq National Market, on which the Company’s shares are listed, has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, the market price of the Company’s Common Stock, like the stock prices of many publicly traded pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, has been and may continue to be highly volatile. 40 Table of Contents The following table sets forth, for the fiscal periods indicated, the range of high and low prices for trades of the Company’s Common Stock on the Nasdaq National Market System. High Low Year Ended December 31, 2002 First Quarter $ 35.27 $ 19.30 Second Quarter 29.16 15.50 Third Quarter 20.70 10.03 Fourth Quarter 24.16 10.38 Year Ended December 31, 2003 First Quarter $ 20.89 $ 15.51 Second Quarter 27.10 16.79 Third Quarter 42.86 22.50 Fourth Quarter 47.73 32.42 Year Ended December 31, 2004 First Quarter $ 59.41 $ 37.06 Second Quarter 44.40 29.55 Third Quarter 39.41 28.00 Fourth Quarter 45.74 33.45 Year Ended December 31, 2005 First Quarter $ 42.66 $ 30.30 Second Quarter 68.60 41.53 Third Quarter 78.40 63.26 Fourth Quarter 73.56 49.10 Among other factors, the following occurrences may have a significant impact on the market price of the Company’s Common Stock: • the sale by the Company’s controlling shareholder or members of the Company’s management of shares of Common Stock; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by the Company or its competitors; • developments or disputes concerning patent or proprietary rights; • the outcome of the litigation between Biovail and Andrx; • publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products comprising the Company’s Product Portfolio or to products under development by Kos or its competitors; • regulatory developments in either the United States or foreign countries; • public concern as to the safety of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products; • economic and other external factors; • the trend of prescriptions for the products comprising the Company’s Product Portfolio and the period-to-period fluctuations in sales or other financial results; 41 Table of Contents • the Company’s ability to maintain coverage of its products by government agencies and the effects of the loss of such coverage with such agencies, such as CMS; • the outcome of the investigation by the Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services in conjunction with the United States Department of Justice; and • the outcome of the Company’s review of its price reporting methodologies in connection with Medicaid rebates. Anti-Takeover Provisions Certain provisions of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws generally permit removal of directors only for cause by a 60% vote of the shareholders, require a 60% vote of the shareholders to amend the Company’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, require a demand of at least 50% of the Company’s shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders, and prohibit shareholder actions by written consent. Certain of such provisions also allow the Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of Preferred Stock with rights superior to those of the Common Stock. Moreover, provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act, to which the Company is subject, prohibit the voting of shares that are acquired in certain takeovers without the approval of the Board of Directors or the approval by a majority of the corporation’s voting shares. Accordingly, the forgoing provisions could prevent the removal of the Company’s current directors and management, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, control of Kos. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 42 Table of Contents 