ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We are affected by the risks faced by commercial aircraft operators and MROs because they are our customers. Commercial aircraft operators are engaged in economically sensitive, highly cyclical and competitive businesses. We are a supplier to commercial aircraft operators and MROs. As a result, we are indirectly affected by all the risks facing commercial aircraft operators and MROs, which are beyond our control. Our results of operations depend, in part, on the financial strength of our customers and our customers’ ability to compete effectively in the marketplace and manage their risks. These risks include, among others: · general economic conditions in the countries in which our customers operate, including changes in gross domestic product; · demand for air travel and air cargo shipments; · increased competition; · changes in interest rates and the availability and terms of credit available to commercial aircraft operators; · concerns about security, terrorism, war, public health and political instability; 10 Table of Contents · environmental compliance and other regulatory costs; · labor contracts, labor costs and strikes or stoppages at commercial aircraft operators; · aircraft fuel prices and availability; · technological developments; · maintenance costs; · airport access and air traffic control infrastructure constraints; · insurance and other operating costs incurred by commercial aircraft operators and MROs; · industry capacity, utilization and general market conditions; and · market prices for aviation equipment. To the extent that our customers are negatively affected by these risk factors, we may experience: · a decrease in demand for some engine types in our portfolio; · greater credit risks from our customers, and a higher incidence of lessee defaults and repossessions; · an inability to quickly lease engines and aircraft on commercially acceptable terms when these become available through our purchase commitments and regular lease terminations; and · shorter lease terms, which may increase our expenses and reduce our utilization rates. Our engine values and lease rates, which are dependent on the status of the types of aircraft on which engines are installed, and other factors, could decline. The value of a particular model of engine depends heavily on the types of aircraft on which it may be installed and the supply of available engines. We believe values of engines tend to be relatively stable so long as there is sufficient demand for the host aircraft. However, we believe the value of an engine begins to decline rapidly once the host aircraft begins to be retired from service and/or used for spare parts in significant numbers. Certain types of engines may be used in significant numbers by commercial aircraft operators that are currently experiencing financial difficulties. If such operators were to go into liquidation or similar proceedings, the resulting over-supply of engines from these operators could have an adverse effect on the demand for the affected engine types and the values of such engines. Upon termination of a lease, we may be unable to enter into new leases or sell the engine on acceptable terms. We own the engines that we lease to customers and bear the risk of not recovering our entire investment through leasing and selling the engines. Upon termination of a lease, we seek to enter a new lease or to sell the engine. We also selectively sell engines on an opportunistic basis. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to find, in a timely manner, a lessee for our engines coming off-lease. If we do find a lessee, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory lease rates and terms (including maintenance and redelivery conditions) or rates and terms comparable to our current leases, and we can give no assurance that the creditworthiness of any future lessee will be equal to or better than that of the existing lessees of our engines. Because the terms of engine leases may be less than 12 months, we may frequently need to remarket engines. We face the risk that we may not be able to keep our engines on lease consistently. We are subject to the risks and costs of aircraft maintenance and obsolescence on the aircraft that we own. We currently own four ATR72-202 turboprop aircraft. We may buy other aircraft or interests in aircraft in the future primarily to seek opportunities to realize value from the engines or related parts. Among other risks described in this Annual Report, the following risks apply when we lease or sell aircraft: · we will be subject to the greater maintenance risks and risks of declines in value that apply to aircraft as opposed to engines, as well as the potentially greater risks of leasing or selling aircraft; · intense competition among manufacturers, lessors, and sellers may, among other things, adversely affect the demand for, lease rates and residual values of our aircraft; 11 Table of Contents · our aircraft lessees are aircraft operators engaged in economically sensitive, highly cyclical and competitive businesses and our results of operations from aircraft leasing depend, in part, on their financial strength (for more details, see the risk factor entitled “We are affected by the risks faced by commercial aircraft operators and MROs because they are our customers” above); · our aircraft lessees may encounter significant financial difficulties, which could result in our agreeing to amend our leases with the customer to, among other things, defer or forgive rent payments or extend lease terms as an alternative to repossession; · our aircraft lessees may file for bankruptcy which could result in us incurring greater losses with respect to aircraft than with respect to engines; and · aircraft technology is constantly improving and, as a result, aircraft of a particular model and type tend to become obsolete and less in demand over time, when newer, more advanced and efficient aircraft become available. We carry the risk of maintenance for our leased assets. Our maintenance reserves may be inadequate or lessees may default on their obligations to perform maintenance, which could increase our expenses. Under most of our engine leases, the lessee makes monthly maintenance reserve payments to us based on the engine’s usage and management’s estimate of maintenance costs. A certain level of maintenance reserve payments on the WEST II engines are held in related engine reserve restricted cash accounts. Generally, the lessee under long term leases is responsible for all scheduled maintenance costs, even if they exceed the amounts of maintenance reserves paid. 38 of our leases comprising approximately 20.6% of the net book value of our on-lease engines at December 31, 2013 do not provide for any monthly maintenance reserve payments to be made by lessees, and we can give no assurance that future leases of the engines will require maintenance reserves. In some cases, including engine repossessions, we may decide to pay for refurbishments or repairs if the accumulated use fees are inadequate. We can give no assurance that our operating cash flows and available liquidity reserves, including the amounts held in the engine reserve restricted cash accounts, will be sufficient to fund necessary engine maintenance. Actual maintenance reserve payments by lessees and other cash that we receive may be significantly less than projected as a result of numerous factors, including defaults by lessees. Furthermore, we can provide no assurance that lessees will meet their obligations to make maintenance reserve payments or perform required scheduled maintenance or, to the extent that maintenance reserve payments are insufficient, to cover the cost of refurbishments or repairs. Failures by lessees to meet their maintenance and recordkeeping obligations under our leases could adversely affect the value of our leased engines and our ability to lease the engines in a timely manner following termination of the lease. The value and income producing potential of an engine depend heavily on it being maintained in accordance with an approved maintenance system and complying with all applicable governmental directives and manufacturer requirements. In addition, for an engine to be available for service, all records, logs, licenses and documentation relating to maintenance and operations of the engine must be maintained in accordance with governmental and manufacturer specifications. Our leases make the lessees primarily responsible for maintaining the engines, keeping related records and complying with governmental directives and manufacturer requirements. Over time, certain lessees have experienced and may experience in the future, difficulties in meeting their maintenance and recordkeeping obligations as specified by the terms of our leases. Our ability to determine the condition of the engines and whether the lessees are properly maintaining our engines is generally limited to the lessees’ reporting of monthly usage and any maintenance performed, confirmed by periodic inspections performed by us and third-parties. A lessee’s failure to meet its maintenance or recordkeeping obligations under a lease could result in: · a grounding of the related engine; · a repossession which would likely cause us to incur additional and potentially substantial expenditures in restoring the engine to an acceptable maintenance condition; 12 Table of Contents · a need to incur additional costs and devote resources to recreate the records prior to the sale or lease of the engine; · loss of lease revenue while we perform refurbishments or repairs and recreate records; and · a lower lease rate and/or shorter lease term under a new lease entered into by us following repossession of the engine. Any of these events may adversely affect the value of the engine, unless and until remedied, and reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. If an engine is damaged during a lease and we are unable to recover from the lessee or insurance, we may incur a loss. Our operating results vary and comparisons to results for preceding periods may not be meaningful. Due to a number of factors, including the risks described in this ITEM 1A, our operating results may fluctuate. These fluctuations may also be caused by: · the timing and number of purchases and sales of engines; · the timing and amount of maintenance reserve revenues recorded resulting from the termination of long term leases, for which significant amounts of maintenance reserves may have accumulated; · the termination or announced termination of production of particular aircraft and engine types; · the retirement or announced retirement of particular aircraft models by aircraft operators; · the operating history of any particular engine or engine model; · the length of our operating leases; and · the timing of necessary overhauls of engines. These risks may reduce our engine utilization rates, lease margins, maintenance reserve revenues, and proceeds from engine sales, and result in higher legal, technical, maintenance, storage and insurance costs related to repossession and the cost of engines being off-lease. As a result of the foregoing and other factors, the availability of engines for lease or sale periodically experiences cycles of oversupply and undersupply of given engine models. The incidence of an oversupply of engines may produce substantial decreases in engine lease rates, the appraised and resale value of engines and increase the time and costs incurred to lease or sell engines. We anticipate that fluctuations from period to period will continue in the future. As a result, we believe that comparisons to results for preceding periods may not be meaningful and that results of prior periods should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Our customers face intense competition and some carriers are in troubled financial condition. The commercial aviation industry deteriorated sharply in 2001 and 2002 after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the related slowdown in economic activity. After a period of recovery, the airline industry was negatively impacted again in 2008 and 2009 by the spike in fuel prices and the deepening worldwide recession, caused by the turmoil in the credit and financial markets. The airline industry has recovered in 2010 through 2013, returning to profitability with carriers in emerging markets and the U.S. faring better than European carriers. However, we cannot give assurance that delinquencies and defaults on our leases will not increase during future cyclical downturns in the economy and commercial aviation industry. Certain lessees may be significantly delinquent in their rental payments and may default on their lease obligations. As of December 31, 2013, we had an aggregate of approximately $0.8 million in lease rent and $0.8 million in maintenance reserve payments more than 30 days past due. Our inability to collect receivables or to repossess engines or other leased equipment in the event of a default by a lessee could have a material adverse effect on us. Various airlines have filed for bankruptcy in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions, with some seeking to restructure their operations and others which are ceasing operations entirely. In the case of airlines which are restructuring, such airlines often reduce their flights or eliminate the use of certain types of aircraft and the related engine types. Applicable 13 Table of Contents bankruptcy law often allows these airlines to terminate leases early and to return our engines without meeting the contractual return conditions, and in that case, we may not be paid the full amount, or any part of, our claims for these lease terminations. Alternatively, we might negotiate agreements with those airlines under which the airline continues to lease the engine, but under modified lease terms. In the case of an airline which has ceased operations entirely, in addition to the risk of nonpayment, we face the enhanced risk of deterioration or total loss of an engine while it is under uncertain custody and control. In that case, we may be required to take legal action to secure the return of the engine and its records, or alternatively to negotiate a settlement under which we can immediately recover the engine and its records in exchange for waiving subsequent legal claims. We may not be able to repossess an engine when the lessee defaults, and even if we are able to repossess the engine, we may have to expend significant funds in the repossession and leasing of the engine. When a lessee defaults we typically seek to terminate the lease and repossess the engine. If a defaulting lessee contests the termination and repossession or is under court protection, enforcement of our rights under the lease may be difficult, expensive and time-consuming. We may not realize any practical benefits from our legal rights and we may need to obtain consents to export the engine. As a result, the relevant engine may be off-lease or not producing revenue for a prolonged period. In addition, we will incur direct costs associated with repossessing our engine. These costs may include legal and similar costs, the direct costs of transporting, storing and insuring the engine, and costs associated with necessary maintenance and recordkeeping to make the engine available for lease or sale. During this time, we will realize no revenue from the leased engine, and we will continue to be obligated to pay our debt financing for the engine. If an engine is installed on an airframe, the airframe may be owned by an aircraft lessor or other third party. Our ability to recover engines installed on airframes may depend on the cooperation of the airframe owner. We and our customers operate in a highly regulated industry and changes in laws or regulations may adversely affect our ability to lease or sell our engines. Licenses and consents We and our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. A number of our leases require specific governmental or regulatory licenses, consents or approvals. These include consents for certain payments under the leases and for the export, import or re-export of our engines. Consents needed in connection with future leasing or sale of our engines may not be received timely or have economically feasible terms. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to lease or sell engines. The U.S. Department of Commerce, or the “Commerce Department,” regulates exports. We are subject to the Commerce Department’s and the U.S. Department of State’s regulations with respect to the lease and sale of engines and aircraft to foreign entities and the export of related parts. These Departments may, in some cases, require us to obtain export licenses for engines exported to foreign countries. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security, through the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, enforces regulations related to the import of engines and aircraft into the United States for maintenance or lease and imports of parts for installation on our engines and aircraft. We are prohibited from doing business with persons designated by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or “OFAC,” on its “Specially Designated Nationals List,” and must monitor our operations and existing and potential lessees for compliance with OFAC’s rules. Anti-corruption Laws As a U.S. corporation with significant international operations, we are required to comply with a number of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-corruption. For example, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar world-wide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing any official act or decision or securing any improper advantage. The scope and enforcement of anti-corruption laws and regulations may vary. Although our policies expressly mandate compliance with the FCPA and similar laws, there can be no assurance that none of our employees or agents will take any action in violation of our policies. Violations of such laws or regulations could result in substantial civil or criminal fines or sanctions. Actual or alleged violations could also damage our reputation, be expensive to defend, and impair our ability to do business. Civil aviation regulation Users of engines are subject to general civil aviation authorities, including the FAA and the European Aviation Safety Agency (“EASA”), who regulate the maintenance of engines and issue airworthiness directives. Airworthiness directives typically set forth special maintenance actions or modifications to certain engine types or series of specific engines 14 Table of Contents that must be implemented for the engine to remain in service. Also, airworthiness directives may require the lessee to make more frequent inspections of an engine or particular engine parts. Each lessee of an engine generally is responsible for complying with all airworthiness directives. However, if the engine is off lease, we may be forced to bear the cost of compliance with such airworthiness directives, and if the engine is leased, subject to the terms of the lease, if any, we may be forced to share the cost of compliance. Environmental regulation Governmental regulations of noise and emissions levels may be applicable where the related airframe is registered, and where the aircraft is operated. For example, jurisdictions throughout the world have adopted noise regulations which require all aircraft to comply with Stage III noise requirements. In addition to the current Stage III compliance requirements, the United States and the International Civil Aviation Organization, or “ICAO,” have adopted a new, more stringent set of “Stage IV” standards for noise levels which will apply to engines manufactured or certified beginning in 2006. At this time, the United States regulations would not require any phase-out of aircraft that qualify only for Stage III compliance, but the European Union has established a framework for the imposition of operating limitations on non-Stage IV aircraft. These regulations could limit the economic life of our engines or reduce their value, could limit our ability to lease or sell the non-compliant engines or, if engine modifications are permitted, require us to make significant additional investments in the engines to make them compliant. The United States and other jurisdictions are beginning to impose more stringent limits on the emission of nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide emissions from engines, consistent with ICAO standards. These limits generally apply only to engines manufactured after 1999. Concerns over global warming could result in more stringent limitations on the operation of older, non-compliant engines. Any change to current tax laws or accounting principles making operating lease financing less attractive could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our lessees enjoy favorable accounting and tax treatment by using operating leases. Changes in tax laws or accounting principles that make operating leases less attractive to our lessees could have a material adverse effect on demand for our leases and on our business. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) have recently issued a jointly developed proposal on lease accounting that could significantly change the accounting and reporting for lease arrangements. The main objective of the proposed standard is to create a new accounting model for both lessees and lessors, replacing the existing concepts of operating and capital leases with new models. The new models would result in the elimination of most off-balance sheet lease financing for lessees. Lessors would apply one of two models depending upon whether the lessor retains exposure to significant risks or benefits of the underlying assets. The FASB’s document is in the form of an exposure draft of a proposed Accounting Standards Update, Leases (Topic 842) (“ED”), issued in May 2013, and would apply to the accounting for all leases, with some exceptions. The ED also includes expanded disclosures including quantitative and qualitative information to enable users to understand the amount and timing of expected cash flows for both lessors and lessees. The FASB has not completed all of its deliberations and the decisions made to date were sufficiently different from those published in the ED to warrant re-exposure of the revised proposal. The FASB’s standard-setting process is ongoing and until new standards have been finalized and issued, we cannot determine the impact on our consolidated financial statements that may result from such future. If there are future changes in GAAP with regard to how we and our customers must account for leases, it could change the way we and our customers conduct our businesses and, therefore, could have the potential to have an adverse effect on our business. We do not anticipate that the accounting pronouncement, when issued, will change the fundamental economic reasons that airlines lease aircraft and aircraft engines. Our aircraft, engines or parts could cause bodily injury or property damage, exposing us to liability claims. We are exposed to potential liability claims if the use of our aircraft, engines or parts is alleged to have caused bodily injury or property damage. Our leases require our lessees to indemnify us against these claims and to carry insurance customary in the air transportation industry, including liability, property damage and hull all risks insurance on our engines and on our aircraft at agreed upon levels. We can give no assurance that one or more catastrophic events will not exceed insurance coverage limits or that lessees’ insurance will cover all claims that may be asserted against us. Any insurance coverage deficiency or default by lessees under their indemnification or insurance obligations may reduce our recovery of losses upon an event of loss. 15 Table of Contents We may not be adequately covered by insurance. While we maintain contingent insurance covering losses not covered by our lessees’ insurance, such coverage may not be available in circumstances where the lessee’s insurance coverage is insufficient. In addition, if a lessee is not obligated to maintain sufficient insurance, we may incur the costs of additional insurance coverage during the related lease. We are required under certain of our debt facilities to obtain political risk insurance for leases to lessees in specified jurisdictions. We can give no assurance that such insurance will be available at commercially reasonable rates, if at all. Currently, the U.S. government is still offering war risk insurance to U.S.-certificated airlines; however, most foreign governments have ceased this practice, forcing non-U.S. airlines back into the commercial insurance market for this coverage. It is unknown how long the U.S. government will continue to offer war risk insurance and whether U.S.-certificated airlines could obtain war risk insurance in the commercial markets on acceptable terms and conditions. We and our lenders generally are named as an additional insured on liability insurance policies carried by our lessees and are usually the loss payees for damage to the engines. We have not experienced any significant aviation-related claims or any product liability claims related to our engines or spare parts that were not insured. However, an uninsured or partially insured claim, or a claim for which third-party indemnification is not available, could have a material adverse effect upon us. A loss of an aircraft where we lease the airframe, an engine or spare parts could result in significant monetary claims for which there may not be sufficient insurance coverage. RISKS RELATING TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE Our inability to obtain sufficient capital would constrain our ability to grow our portfolio and to increase our revenues. Our business is capital intensive and highly leveraged. Accordingly, our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and maintain our operations depends on the availability and cost of debt and equity capital. Additionally, our ability to borrow against our portfolio of engines is dependent, in part, on the appraised value of our engines. If the appraised value of our engines declines, we may be required to reduce the principal outstanding under certain of our debt facilities. Availability under such debt facilities may also be reduced, at least temporarily, as a result of such reduced appraisals. The relatively recent, well publicized, worldwide disruptions in the credit and financial markets increase the risk of adverse effects on our customers and our capital providers (lenders and derivative counter-parties) and therefore on us. The disruptions may also adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to continue our recent growth trend. Although we have adequate debt commitments from our lenders, assuming they are willing and able to meet their contractual obligation to lend to us, market disruptions may adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity capital to fund future growth, requiring us to rely on internally generated funds. This would lower our rate of capital investment. We can give no assurance that the capital we need will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain sufficient capital, or to renew or expand our credit facilities, could result in increased funding costs and would limit our ability to: · meet the terms and maturities of our existing and future debt facilities; · add new equipment to our portfolio; · fund our working capital needs and maintain adequate liquidity; and · finance other growth initiatives. Our financing facilities impose restrictions on our operations. We have, and expect to continue to have, various credit and financing arrangements with third parties. These financing arrangements are secured by all or substantially all of our assets. Our existing credit and financing arrangements require us to meet certain financial condition and performance tests. Our revolving credit facility prohibits our declaring or paying dividends on shares of any class or series of our capital stock if an event of default under such facilities has or will occur and remains uncured. The agreements governing our debt, including the issuance of notes by WEST II, also include restrictive financial covenants. A breach of those and other covenants could, unless waived or amended by our creditors, result in a cross-default to other indebtedness and an acceleration of all or substantially all of our debt. We have obtained such amendments and waivers to our financing agreements in the past, but we cannot provide any assurance that we will receive such amendments or waivers in the future if we require them. If our outstanding debt is accelerated at any time, we likely would have little or no cash or other assets available after payment of our debts, which could cause the value or market 16 Table of Contents price of our outstanding equity securities to decline significantly and we would have few, if any, assets available for distributions to our equity holders in liquidation. We are exposed to interest rate risk on our engine leases, which could have a negative impact on our margins. We are affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Our lease rates are generally fixed, and a portion of our debt bears variable rate interest based on one-month LIBOR, so changes in interest rates directly affect our lease margins. From time to time, we seek to reduce our interest rate volatility and uncertainty through hedging with interest rate derivative contracts with respect to a portion of our debt. Our lease margins, as well as our earnings and cash flows may be adversely affected by increases in interest rates, to the extent we do not have hedges or other derivatives in place or if our hedges or other derivatives do not mitigate our interest rate exposure from an economic standpoint. We would be adversely affected by increasing interest rates. As reported by British Bankers’ Association, the one-month LIBOR has decreased from approximately 0.21% on December 31, 2012 to approximately 0.17% on December 31, 2013. We have risks in managing our portfolio of engines to meet customer needs. The relatively long life cycles of aircraft and jet engines can be shortened by world events, government regulation or customer preferences. We seek to manage these risks by trying to anticipate demand for particular engine types, maintaining a portfolio mix of engines that we believe is diversified and that will have long-term value and will be sought by lessees in the global market for jet engines, and by selling engines that we expect will experience obsolescence or declining usefulness in the foreseeable future. The WEST II securitization facility includes restrictions and limitations on the sale of engines in that facility including, among others, that (i) the net proceeds from any individual engine sale must be at least 105% of the debt allocated under the facility to that engine, and (ii) the aggregate appraised value of the facility’s engines sold through September 2019 cannot exceed 20% of the total appraised value of the facility’s engines at the inception of the facility plus the value of capitalized modifications to the engines since then, and cannot exceed 30% thereafter. We can give no assurance that we can successfully manage our engine portfolio to reduce these risks. Our inability to maintain sufficient liquidity could limit our operational flexibility and also impact our ability to make payments on our obligations as they come due. In addition to being capital intensive and highly leveraged, our business also requires that we maintain sufficient liquidity to enable us to contribute the non-financed portion of engine purchases as well as to service our payment obligations to our creditors as they become due despite the fact that the timing and amounts of payments under our leases do not match the timing under our debt service obligations. Our restricted cash is unavailable for general corporate purposes. Accordingly, our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and maintain our operations depends on our ability to continue to maintain sufficient liquidity, cash and available credit under our credit facilities. Our liquidity could be adversely impacted if we are subjected to one or more of the following: a significant decline in lease revenues, a material increase in interest expense that is not matched by a corresponding increase in lease rates, a significant increase in operating expenses, or a reduction in our available credit under our credit facilities. If we do not maintain sufficient liquidity, our ability to meet our payment obligations to creditors or to borrow additional funds could become impaired as could our ability to make dividend payments or other distributions to our equity holders. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” NUMEROUS FACTORS MAY AFFECT THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate due to many factors, including: · risks relating to our business described in this Annual Report; · sales of our securities by a few stockholders or even a single significant stockholder; · general economic conditions; · changes in accounting mandated under GAAP; · quarterly variations in our operating results; · our financial condition, performance and prospects; · changes in financial estimates by us; 17 Table of Contents · level, direction and volatility of interest rates and expectations of changes in rates; · market for securities similar to our common stock; and · changes in our capital structure, including additional issuances by us of debt or equity securities. In addition, the U.S. stock markets have experienced price and volume volatility that has affected many companies’ stock prices, often for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. RISKS RELATING TO OUR FOREIGN OPERATIONS A substantial portion of our lease revenue comes from foreign customers, subjecting us to divergent regulatory requirements. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 86% of our lease revenue was generated by leases to foreign customers. Such international leases present risks to us because certain foreign laws, regulations and judicial procedures may not be as protective of lessor rights as those which apply in the United States. We are also subject to risks of foreign laws that affect the timing and access to courts and may limit our remedies when collecting lease payments and recovering assets. None of our leased engines have been expropriated; however, we can give no assurance that political instability abroad and changes in the policies of foreign nations will not present expropriation risks in the future that are not covered by insurance. Our leases require payments in U.S. dollars but many of our customers operate in other currencies; if foreign currencies devalue against the U.S. dollar, our lessees may be unable to make their payments to us. All of our current leases require that payments be made in U.S. dollars. If the currency that our lessees typically use in operating their businesses devalues against the U.S. dollar, the lessees could encounter difficulties in making payments in U.S. dollars. Furthermore, many foreign countries have currency and exchange laws regulating international payments that may impede or prevent payments from being paid to us in U.S. dollars. Future leases may provide for payments to be made in euros or other foreign currencies. Any change in the currency exchange rate that reduces the amount of U.S. dollars obtained by us upon conversion of future lease payments denominated in euros or other foreign currencies, may, if not appropriately hedged by us, have a material adverse effect on us and increase the volatility of our earnings. If payments on our leases are made in foreign currency, our risks and hedging costs will increase. We operate globally and are affected by our customers’ local and regional economic and other risks. We believe that our customers’ growth and financial condition are driven by economic growth in their service areas. The largest portion of our lease revenues come from Europe. European airline operations are among the most heavily regulated in the world. At the same time, new low-cost carriers have exerted substantial competitive and financial pressure on major European airlines. Low-cost carriers are having similar effects in North America and elsewhere. Our operations may also be affected by political or economic instability in the areas where we have customers. We may not be able to enforce our rights as a creditor if a lessee files for bankruptcy outside of the United States. When a debtor seeks protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code, creditors are automatically stayed from enforcing their rights. In the case of United States-certificated airlines, Section 1110 of the Bankruptcy Code provides certain relief to lessors of aircraft equipment. Section 1110 has been the subject of significant litigation and we can give no assurance that Section 1110 will protect our investment in an aircraft or engines in the event of a lessee’s bankruptcy. In addition, Section 1110 does not apply to lessees located outside of the United States and applicable foreign laws may not provide comparable protection. Liens on our engines could exceed the value of the engines, which could negatively affect our ability to repossess, lease or sell a particular engine. Liens that secure the payment of repairers’ charges or other liens may, depending on the jurisdiction, attach to the engines. Engines also may be installed on airframes to which liens unrelated to the engines have attached. These liens may secure substantial sums that may, in certain jurisdictions or for limited types of liens, exceed the value of the particular engine to which the liens have attached. In some jurisdictions, a lien may give the holder the right to detain or, in limited cases, sell or cause the forfeiture of the engine. Such liens may have priority over our interest as well as our creditors’ interest in the engines, either because they have such priority under applicable local law or because our creditors’ security interests are not filed in jurisdictions outside the United States. These liens and lien holders could impair our ability to repossess and 18 Table of Contents lease or sell the engines. We cannot give assurance that our lessees will comply with their obligations to discharge third party liens on our engines. If they do not, we may, in the future, find it necessary to pay the claims secured by such liens to repossess the engines. In certain countries, an engine affixed to an aircraft may become an accession to the aircraft and we may not be able to exercise our ownership rights over the engine. In some jurisdictions, an engine affixed to an aircraft may become an accession to the aircraft, so that the ownership rights of the owner of the aircraft supersede the ownership rights of the owner of the engine. If an aircraft is security for the owner’s obligations to a third-party, the security interest in the aircraft may supersede our rights as owner of the engine. This legal principle could limit our ability to repossess an engine in the event of a lessee bankruptcy or lease default while the aircraft with the engine installed remains in such a jurisdiction. We may suffer a loss if we are not able to repossess engines leased to lessees in these jurisdictions. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SMALL SIZE AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Intense competition in our industry, particularly with major companies with substantially greater financial, personnel, marketing and other resources, could cause our revenues and business to suffer. The engine leasing industry is highly competitive and global. Our primary competitors include GE Engine Leasing, Shannon Engine Support, Pratt &Whitney, Rolls-Royce Partners Finance and Engine Lease Finance. Our primary competitors generally have significantly greater financial, personnel and other resources, and a physical presence in more locations, than we do. In addition, competing engine lessors may have lower costs of capital and may provide financial or technical services or other inducements to customers, including the ability to sell or lease aircraft or provide other forms of financing that we do not provide. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to compete effectively or that competitive pressures will not adversely affect us. There is no organized market for the spare engines we purchase. Typically, we purchase engines from commercial aircraft operators, engine manufacturers, MROs and other suppliers. We rely on our representatives, advertisements and reputation to generate opportunities to purchase and sell engines. The market for purchasing engine portfolios is highly competitive, generally involving an auction bidding process. We can give no assurance that engines will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms and in the types and quantities we seek consistent with the diversification requirements of our debt facilities and our portfolio diversification goals. Substantially all of our assets are pledged to our creditors. Substantially all of our assets are pledged to secure our obligations to creditors. Our revolving credit banks have a lien on all of our assets, including our equity in WEST II. Due to WEST II’s bankruptcy remote structure, that equity is subject to the prior payments of WEST II’s debt and other obligations. Therefore, our rights and the rights of our creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets of WEST II upon its liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or winding up will be subject to the prior claims of WEST II’s creditors. Similarly, the rights of our shareholders are subject to satisfaction of the claims of our lenders and other creditors. We may be unable to manage the expansion of our operations. We can give no assurance that we will be able to manage effectively the potential expansion of our operations, or that if we are successful expanding our operations that our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations, in which event our business, financial condition, results and cash flows could be adversely affected. Any acquisition or expansion involves various risks, which may include some or all of the following: · incurring or assuming additional debt; · diversion of management’s time and attention from ongoing business operations; · future charges to earnings related to the possible impairment of goodwill and the write down of other intangible assets; · risks of unknown or contingent liabilities; 19 Table of Contents · difficulties in the assimilation of operations, services, products and personnel; · unanticipated costs and delays; · risk that the acquired business does not perform consistently with our growth and profitability expectations; · risk that growth will strain our infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures; and · potential loss of key employees and customers. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on us. Compliance with the regulatory requirements imposed on us as a public company results in significant costs that will likely have an adverse effect on our results. As a public company, we are subject to various regulatory requirements including, but not limited to, compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. Compliance with these regulations results in significant additional costs to us both directly, through increased audit and consulting fees, and indirectly, through the time required by our limited resources to address the regulations. We have complied with Section 404a of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as of December 31, 2007, completing our annual assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. We complied with Section 404b of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as of December 31, 2009 and our independent registered public accounting firm has audited internal controls over financial reporting. Such compliance requires us to incur additional costs on audit and consulting fees and require additional management time that may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We are effectively controlled by one principal stockholder, who has the power to contest the outcome of most matters submitted to the stockholders for approval and to affect our stock prices adversely if he were to sell substantial amounts of his common stock. As of December 31, 2013, our principal stockholder, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Charles F. Willis, IV, beneficially owned or had the ability to direct the voting of 2,767,267 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 33% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Willis effectively controls us and has the power to contest the outcome of substantially all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of the board of directors. In addition, future sales by Mr. Willis of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the potential for such sales, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Our business might suffer if we were to lose the services of certain key employees. Our business operations depend upon our key employees, including our executive officers. Loss of any of these employees, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business as our key employees have knowledge of our industry and customers and would be difficult to replace. We are the servicer and administrative agent for the WEST II facility and our cash flows would be materially and adversely affected if we were removed from these positions. We are the servicer and administrative agent with respect to engines in the WEST II facility. We receive monthly fees of 11.5% as servicer and 2.0% as administrative agent of the aggregate net rents actually received by WEST II on its engines. We may be removed as servicer and administrative agent by the affirmative vote of a requisite number of holders of WEST II facility notes upon the occurrence of certain specified events, including the following events, subject to WEST II following certain specified procedures and providing us certain cure rights as set forth in the servicing agreement: · We fail to perform the requisite services set forth in the servicing agreement or administrative agent agreement; · We fail to provide adequate insurance or otherwise materially and adversely affect the rights of WEST II; · We cease to be engaged in the aircraft engine leasing business; · We become subject to an insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding, either voluntarily or involuntarily; and · We fail to maintain the following financial covenant set forth in the Servicing Agreement: Maintain a minimum consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to interest ratio of 2.25-to-1.00 20 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2013, we were in compliance with the financial covenants set forth above. There can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with these covenants in the future or will not otherwise be terminated as service or administrative agent for the WEST II facility. If we are removed, our expenses would increase since our consolidated subsidiary, WEST II, would have to hire an outside provider to replace the servicer and administrative agent functions, and we would be materially and adversely affected. Consequently, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Provisions in Delaware law and our charter and bylaws might prevent or delay a change of control. Certain provisions of law, our amended certificate of incorporation, bylaws and amended rights agreement could make the following more difficult: (1) an acquisition of us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, and (2) the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Our board of directors has authorized the issuance of shares of Series I Junior Participating Preferred Stock pursuant to our amended rights agreement, by and between us and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as rights agent. The rights agreement could make it more difficult to proceed with and tend to discourage a merger, tender offer or proxy contest. Our amended certificate of incorporation also provides that stockholder action can be taken only at an annual or special meeting of stockholders and may not be taken by written consent and, in certain circumstances relating to acquisitions or other changes in control, requires an 80% supermajority vote of all outstanding shares of our common stock. Our bylaws also limit the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice. 