ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and the prevailing market price of our common shares may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. In addition to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. These important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. We Depend on Our Agreements with Cruise Lines and Land-Based Spas; if These Agreements Terminate, Our Business Would be Harmed A significant portion of our revenues are generated from our cruise ship spa operations. The cruise line agreements have specific terms, ranging from one to eight years with an average remaining term per ship of approximately three years as of February 2, 2015 (excluding the Celebrity agreement, which expired in December 2013). As of that date, cruise line agreements that expire within one year covered 19 of the 148 ships served by us. These 19 ships accounted for approximately 4.4% of our 2014 revenues. We cannot assure you that any of these agreements, or any of our other cruise line agreements, will be renewed after their expiration date or that any renewal will be on similar terms. Also, we cannot assure you that upon renewal, these agreements will not cause reductions in our margins. Typically, the amounts we pay to cruise lines and land-based venues increase upon our entering into renewals of agreements. In addition, these agreements provide for termination by the cruise lines with limited or no advance notice under certain circumstances, including, among other things, the withdrawal of a ship from the cruise trade, the sale or lease of a ship or our failure to achieve specified passenger service standards. As of February 2, 2015, agreements for four ships provided for termination for any reason by the cruise line on 90 days' notice, and, with respect to five ships, we are operating without written agreements. These nine ships (which are included in the 19 ships referenced above) accounted for 2.8% of our 2014 revenues. Termination of significant cruise line agreements or a series of other cruise line agreements, either upon completion of their terms or prior thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Some of our land-based spa agreements also provide for termination with limited advance notice under certain circumstances. We Depend on the Cruise Industry and Their Risks are Risks to Us A significant portion of our revenues are generated from cruise ship passengers. Therefore, the ability of the cruise industry to attract passengers is critical to our results of operations and financial condition. The cruise industry is subject to significant risks that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Cruise lines compete for consumer disposable leisure time dollars with other vacation alternatives such as hotels and sightseeing vacations. Demand for cruises is dependent on the underlying economic strength of the countries from which cruise lines source their passengers. Economic changes that reduce disposable income or consumer confidence in the countries from which our cruise line customers source their passengers may affect demand for vacations, including cruise vacations, which are discretionary purchases. The weakened United States and other world economies in recent years, including the impact on consumers and businesses of high fuel costs and tighter credit, had an adverse effect on the discretionary spending of consumers, including spending on cruise vacations and our services and products. In order for the cruise industry to maintain its market share in a difficult economic environment, cruise lines have at times offered discounted fares to prospective passengers. Passengers who are cruising solely due to discounted fares may reflect their cost consciousness by not spending on discretionary items, such as our services and products. While the economies in North America and certain other regions have improved, and fuel prices have eased recently, these conditions adversely affected our results of operations in certain prior years. Though discretionary spending of passengers on certain cruise lines has increased, the recurrence of the more severe aspects of these challenging economic conditions and/or increases in fuel costs could have a material adverse effect on the cruise industry and also could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 31 Despite the general historic trend of growth in the volume of cruise passengers, in 2015 and future years, the global economic environment could cause the number of cruise passengers to decline or be maintained through discounting, which could result in an increased number of passengers with limited discretionary spending ability. A significant decrease in passenger volume could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A continuing industry trend reported by CLIA is the growing number of passengers sourced from outside North America. We believe that non-North American passengers spend less on our services and products than North American passengers. Other recent trends are those of certain cruise lines reducing the number of cruises to certain long-standing destinations and replacing them with alternative exotic destinations, as well as extending the length of voyages. A number of such replacements and extensions result in cruises producing lower revenues to us than cruises to the prior destinations and of certain long-standing durations. The continuation of these trends could materially adversely affect the results of our shipboard spa operations. Accidents and other incidents involving cruise ships can materially adversely affect the cruise industry, as well as our results of operations and financial condition. In January 2012, Costa Concordia, a cruise ship owned and operated by Costa, a cruise line that we serve, grounded off the coast of Isola del Giglio, Italy, sustained significant damage and did not resume service. There were a number of casualties. In February 2012, another Costa vessel experienced a fire which caused it to be temporarily immobilized. In early 2013, mechanical and other problems on Carnival's Elation, Dream and Legend caused early terminations of cruises on those vessels. In February 2013, a fire on the Carnival Triumph resulted in the vessel being immobilized for a number of days off the coast of Mexico. In May 2013, a fire on the Royal Caribbean Grandeur of the Seas resulted in a cruise ending early and the cancellation of a subsequently scheduled sailing of that vessel. In January 2014, a highly publicized incident of mass illness aboard the Royal Caribbean Explorer of the Seas was experienced, resulting in early termination of that sailing. Among other things, accidents such as these reduce our revenues and increase the costs of our maritime-related insurance. In addition, these types of accidents can adversely affect consumer demand for cruise vacations. Other unscheduled withdrawals of ships from service, delays in new ship introductions, environmental violations by cruise lines, restricted access of cruise ships to environmentally sensitive regions, hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions and increases in fuel costs could also materially adversely impact the cruise industry. For example, in the past, hurricanes have caused the withdrawal of ships that we served from service for use in hurricane relief efforts, as well as the temporary closing of cruise ports and the destruction of a cruise pier facility. A number of cruise ships have experienced outbreaks of illnesses that have affected, at times, hundreds of passengers on a ship. In addition, epidemics affecting global regions could also adversely affect cruise ship travel. Also, in recent years, attempted pirate attacks, violence and other crimes, passenger accidents, disappearances and assaults, fatalities from shore excursion activities, shipboard fires and other incidents have brought adverse publicity to the travel industry, including the cruise industry. The public concern over these incidents, especially if they are repeated, or other negative publicity about the cruise industry, could adversely affect the demand for cruises and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The cruise lines' capacity has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow over the next few years as new ships are introduced. In order to utilize the new capacity, it is likely that the cruise industry will need to increase its share of the overall vacation market. In order to increase that market share, cruise lines may be required to offer discounted fares to prospective passengers, which would have the potentially adverse effects on us described above. Severe weather conditions, both at sea and at ports of embarkation, also could adversely affect the cruise industry. The cruise industry also relies to a significant extent on airlines to transport passengers to ports of embarkation. Changes in airline service to cruise embarkation and disembarkation locations could adversely affect us. In addition, any strikes or other disruptions of airline service, including those that could follow terrorist attacks or armed hostilities, could adversely affect the ability of cruise passengers or our shipboard staff to reach their ports of embarkation, or could cause cancellation of cruises. Cruise ships have increasingly had itineraries which provide for the ships to be in port during cruises. When cruise ships are in port, our revenues are adversely affected. In addition, a number of cruise lines are increasingly offering voyages that are longer in duration and that call on more exotic ports. Such cruises generally generate lower revenues for us than shorter cruises and cruises that call on more common destinations. 32 Cruise ships periodically go into dry-dock for routine maintenance, repairs and refurbishment for periods ranging from one to three weeks. Cruise ships also may be taken out of service for non-routine maintenance and repairs as a result of damage from an accident or otherwise, such as the Costa Concordia and Carnival Triumph incidents. A ship also may go out of service with respect to us if it is transferred to a cruise line we do not serve or if it is retired from service. While we attempt to plan appropriately for the scheduled removal from service of ships we serve, unexpected removals from service of ships we serve can hamper the efficient distribution of our shipboard personnel, in addition to causing unexpected reductions in our shipboard revenues. Loss of a Significant Cruise Line Customer Could Harm Us As a result of the consolidation of the cruise industry, the number of independent cruise lines has decreased in recent years and this trend may continue. Also, historically, some smaller cruise lines have ceased operating for economic reasons and this may happen to other cruise lines in the future. As a result of these factors, a small number of cruise companies, all of which currently are our customers, dominate the cruise industry. Revenues from passengers of each of the following cruise line companies accounted for more than ten percent of our total revenues in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively: Carnival (including Carnival, Carnival Australia, Costa, Cunard, Holland America, P&O, Princess and Seabourn Cruise Lines): 24.8%, 24.4% and 25.7% and Royal Caribbean (including Royal Caribbean, Pullmantur, Celebrity (until the second quarter of 2014, at which point we ceased serving Celebrity ships) and Azamara cruise lines): 10.6%, 13.9% and 14.8%. These companies also accounted for 118 of the 148 ships served by us as of February 2, 2015. If we cease to serve one of these cruise companies, or a substantial number of ships operated by a cruise company, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Success of Our Hotel Spas Depends on the Hospitality Industry As of February 2, 2015, our hotel and resort spa operations are conducted at 56 land-based venues located in a total of 12 countries, plus one United States territory. We are dependent on the hospitality industry for the success of these spas. To the extent that consumers do not choose to stay at venues where we operate spas, over which we have no control, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The hospitality industry is subject to risks that are similar to those of the cruise industry. The considerations described above regarding the effects of adverse economic conditions on the cruise industry apply similarly to the hospitality industry, including the hotels where we have operations. Periods of economic slowdown result in reduced hotel occupancy rates and decreased spending by hotel guests, including at the hotels where we operate spas. The recurrence of challenging economic conditions, as well as instances of increased fuel costs, which have occurred in certain prior years, could result in lower hotel occupancy, which would have a direct, adverse effect on the number of hotel guests that purchase our spa services and products at the venues in question. Accordingly, such lower occupancy rates at the hotels we serve could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The following are other risks related to the hospitality industry: ● changes in the national, regional and local conditions (including major national or international terrorist attacks, armed hostilities or other significant adverse events, including an oversupply of hotel properties, or a reduction in demand for hotel rooms); ● the possible loss of funds expended for build-outs of spas at venues that fail to open, underperform or close due to economic slowdowns or otherwise; ● the attractiveness of the venues to consumers and competition from comparable venues in terms of, among other things, accessibility and cost; ● the outbreaks of illnesses, or the perceived risk of such outbreaks, in locations where we operate land-based spas; ● weather conditions, including natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis and floods; ● possible labor unrest or changes in economics based on collective bargaining activities; ● changes in ownership of the venues we serve; ● changes in room rates at the venues we serve; 33 ● possible conversion of guest rooms at hotels to condominium units and the decrease in spa usage that often accompanies such conversions, and the related risk that condominium hotels are less likely to be suitable venues for our spas; ● reductions in hotel occupancy during major renovations or as a result of damage or other causes; ● the maintenance of the venues we serve; ● changes in popular travel patterns; ● changes in guest demographics at the venues we serve; ● acquisition by hotel chains of spa service providers to create captive "in-house" brands and development by hotel chains of their own proprietary spa service providers, reducing the opportunity for third party spa providers like us; and ● the financial condition of the airline industry, as well as elimination of, or reduction in, airline service to locations where we operate hotel spas, which would result in fewer guests at those venues. Risks Related to Acquisitions and Expansion One of the ways that we have grown our business has been through acquisitions of existing businesses, including, in the last few years, the acquisitions of Onboard, Ideal Image and Cortiva. Acquisitions have represented a significant amount of our growth in the past. We will continue to consider strategic acquisitions of existing businesses that are compatible with or enhance our existing operations. Any such acquisitions would be subject to various risks, including, without limitation, the risk that we will not be able to operate a business as successfully as it was operated prior to its acquisition, the risks associated with investing financial and other of our resources in effectuating an acquisition that may not be ultimately beneficial to the Company, the risk that the purchase price we pay for an acquisition does not, in fact, represent a fair price for the transaction as a result of fraud or other misconduct on the part of the seller in the transaction, the possible loss of key employees, vendors or customer relationships of acquired entities and the risk that we may not be able to successfully integrate any new business that we acquire into our then existing operations. In connection with acquisitions, we attempt to negotiate appropriate protections for us against unknown liabilities relating to the pre-acquisition activities of the target business and misrepresentations by the seller about the purchased business. However, those protections generally have some limitations, and we often depend on the continued solvency of the seller of the business or the adequacy of portions of purchase prices held in escrow. Such escrow accounts, generally, represent small percentages of the applicable purchase price and are only held for relatively brief periods of time. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be protected against all liabilities of the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future. With respect to our schools' operations, acquisitions involve regulatory risks, as described below. In addition, we may also consider expanding through the creation of new schools or the establishment of branches in new locations of one or more of our existing schools, such as we recently did with the opening of our Richardson and Houston campuses as branches of UCMT and our Arlington campus as a branch of Cortiva Institute – Pinellas Park. Generally, establishing new schools or new branch campuses of our existing schools involve a significant amount of financial and other resources of the Company. Despite any such investment of funds and other resources, we cannot assure you that any new school or branch campus that we may establish in the future would be successful. The acquisition of new schools, or the establishment of new schools or new branch campuses, require us to obtain approvals of the DOE and the applicable state licensing agencies and accrediting agencies and are subject to the applicable limitations and requirements of those agencies. Depending on the situation, we may be required to obtain the required approvals before or after the acquisition or establishment of new schools or new branches. We cannot assure you that we would receive these approvals on a timely basis or at all. 34 We Depend on a Limited Number of Product and Equipment Manufacturers We develop and sell a variety of high quality beauty products under our Elemis, La Thérapie, Bliss, BlissLabs, Remède, Laboratoire Remède, Mandara Spa and Mandara brands. Many of our products are produced for us by highly regarded and premier United States and European manufacturers. If any of this limited number of manufacturers ceased producing for us, for any reason, these ingredients and other materials for our products, the transition to other manufacturers could result in significant production delays. Any significant delay or disruption in the supply of our products could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Ideal Image depends on single manufacturers as sources of equipment for the provision of each of its laser hair removal, tattoo removal and body contouring services. Ideal Image does not have agreements with these manufacturers which would require the manufacturers to continue providing these devices to Ideal Image. If Ideal Image were unable to continue to acquire this equipment from these manufacturers, Ideal Image would be required to seek other manufacturers of these devices or a manufacturer of alternative devices. We cannot assure you that the devices we currently use or equivalent devices would be available at prices that are economically beneficial to us or otherwise. Any lack of availability for more than a brief period of time of the laser hair removal, tattoo removal or body contouring services equipment we use to provide our Ideal Image services could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We Depend on Our Distribution and Warehouse Facilities We operate two distribution facilities, one of which is located in the United Kingdom and the other in the United States. Our United States facility is located in Florida, where destructive hurricanes often occur, resulting in damage to businesses or the closing of businesses for, sometimes, extended periods of time. We also utilize distribution facilities operated by third parties, with respect to the operation of which we have no day to day control. While we have insurance to cover losses to our products, if our inventory stored at these facilities suffered any loss or damage due to fire, adverse weather or other hazard, our business could be adversely affected as a result of such loss or damage due to any resulting inability of ours to timely fulfill our product delivery commitments. Ideal Image utilizes third party warehouse facilities to house its customized equipment and furniture until they are installed in Ideal Image's new centers. Ideal Image has no control over the operations of such warehouse facilities, including over safety precautions taken at such facilities. Destruction or damage to such warehouse facilities could cause destruction or damage to this property of Ideal Image. Such destruction could delay the opening of new Ideal Image centers, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We Depend on Our Third Party Product Distribution Channels We sell our products through a variety of third party channels. Factors that adversely impact our distribution channels' businesses also may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. These factors may include, among others, the following: ● credit risks associated with the financial condition of our product distributors and retail channels; ● the effects of consolidation or weakness in the retail industry, including the closure of stores; and ● inventory reduction initiatives and other factors affecting customer buying patterns, including any reduction in retail space commitment to cosmetics. In addition, a significant amount of Bliss products are sold through one retail chain in the United States. The termination of our arrangement with that retailer to sell Bliss brand products could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Bliss and Remède amenities program at Starwood helps our brand awareness for these products. The termination of that agreement could adversely affect the growth of the name recognition for those products and, accordingly, could adversely affect sales growth for those lines. 35 We are Required to Make Minimum Payments Under Our Agreements and Face Increasing Payments to Cruise Lines and Owners of Our Land-Based Venues We are obligated to make minimum annual payments to certain cruise lines and owners of our land-based venues regardless of the amount of revenues we receive from customers. We may also be required to make such minimum annual payments under any future agreements into which we enter. Accordingly, we could be obligated to pay more in minimum payments than the amount we collect from customers. As of December 31, 2014, these payments are required by cruise line agreements covering a total of 93 ships served by us and by 22 of the agreements for our land-based spas. As of December 31, 2014, we guaranteed total minimum payments to cruise lines (excluding payments based on minimum amounts per passenger per day of a cruise applicable to certain ships served by us) of approximately $101.6 million in 2015, $8.0 million in 2016, $8.0 million in 2017, $8.0 million in 2018 and $8.0 million in 2019. These amounts could increase under new or renewed agreements. Some of the minimum annual payments are calculated based upon minimum amounts per passenger per day of a cruise for passengers actually embarked on each cruise of the respective ship. These payments could significantly increase the minimum payments set forth above. The amounts set forth for the years after 2015 are the amounts that are currently calculable. It is anticipated that the actual amounts for each of those years will be significantly higher than the amounts indicated. In general, we have experienced increases in required payments to cruise lines upon renewing, or entering into, new agreements with cruise lines. As of December 31, 2014, we guaranteed total minimum payments to owners of our land-based venues of approximately: $6.1 million in 2015, $4.2 million in 2016, $2.7 million in 2017, $1.9 million in 2018, $1.4 million in 2019 and $2.1 million thereafter. These amounts could increase under new or renewed agreements. We Depend on the Continued Viability of the Ships and Land-Based Venues We Serve Our revenues from our shipboard guests and guests at our land-based spas can only be generated if the ships and land-based venues we serve continue to operate. Historically, some smaller cruise lines we served have ceased operating for economic reasons. In addition, the parent company of two of the hotels where we operate luxury spas filed for protection under the federal bankruptcy laws several years ago, although it has since been sold to a new owner and continues to operate. We cannot be assured of the continued viability of any of the land-based venues (including our ability to protect our investments in build-outs of spa facilities) or cruise lines that we serve, particularly in the event of recurrence of the more severe aspects of the economic slowdown experienced in certain prior years. To the extent that cruise lines or land-based venues we serve, or could potentially serve in the future, cease to operate, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Delays in New Ship Introductions Could Slow our Growth Our growth depends, in part, on our serving new cruise ships brought into service. A number of cruise lines we serve have experienced in the past, and could experience in the future, delays in bringing new ships into service. In addition, there is a limited number of shipyards in the world capable of constructing large cruise ships in accordance with the standards of major cruise lines. This also may contribute to delays in new ship construction. Such delays could slow our growth and have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Increased Costs Could Adversely Impact our Financial Results In addition to the adverse effects on consumers of high fuel costs described above, periods of higher fuel costs adversely affect us directly. We depend on commercial airlines for the transportation of our shipboard employees to and from the ships we serve and, as a result, we pay for a relatively large number of flights for these employees each year. During times of higher fuel costs, such as those experienced in certain prior years, airfares, including those applicable to the transportation of our employees, have been increased by the airlines we have utilized. Increased transportation costs associated with increased fuel costs also add to the costs of delivery of our products to the ships we serve and other destinations. Higher fuel charges also increase the cost to consumers of transportation to cruise ship destination ports and to venues where we operate our land-based spas and also increase the cost of utilities at our land-based spas. Periods of increasing fuel costs would likely cause these transportation costs to correspondingly increase. Extended periods of increased airfares could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Increases in prices of other commodities utilized by us in our business could adversely affect us. For example, in certain prior years, as a result of increases in the cost of cotton, the cost to us of linens and uniforms utilized in our operations has increased. Our land-based spa operations also have experienced an increase in the cost of electrical utilities. A continuing increase in these costs or similar costs applicable to our operations could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 36 We Depend on Our Key Officers and Qualified Employees Our continued success depends to a significant extent on our senior executive officers, including Clive E. Warshaw, Chairman of the Board, Leonard I. Fluxman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and our other senior executives. The loss of services of any of these persons or other key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have key person life insurance policies with respect to Mr. Fluxman and Glenn Fusfield, President and Chief Operating Officer of Steiner Transocean Limited, but not Mr. Warshaw or any of our other executive officers. Our continued success also is dependent on our ability to recruit and retain personnel qualified to perform our services. Shipboard employees typically are employed pursuant to agreements with terms of nine months. Our land-based spa and Ideal Image employees generally are employed without contracts, on an at-will basis. Other providers of shipboard spa services compete with us for shipboard personnel. We also compete with land-based spas and other employers for our shipboard and land-based spa and Ideal Image personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract a sufficient number of applicants possessing the requisite training and skills necessary for conducting our business. Our inability to attract a sufficient number of qualified applicants to provide our services and products could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in recent years, the immigration approval process in the United States proceeds at a slower pace than previously had been the case. Since many of our shipboard employees are not United States citizens, exacerbation of this trend could adversely affect our ability to meet our shipboard staffing needs on a timely basis. Almost all of our shipboard personnel come from jurisdictions outside the United States. Our ability to obtain non-United States shipboard employees is subject to regulations in certain countries from which we source a number of our employees and, in the case of one country, control by an employment company that acts on behalf of employees and potential employees from that country. In addition, in that country, we are required to deal with local employment companies to facilitate the hiring of employees. Our ability to obtain shipboard employees from those countries on economic terms that are acceptable to us may be hampered by evolving regulatory requirements and/or our inability to enter into an acceptable agreement with the applicable local employment company. A small number of Bliss employees at a spa in New York City are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. In addition, we continue to be in negotiations with respect to the non-management employees of our luxury spa at the Atlantis and One&Only Ocean Club hotels in The Bahamas becoming subject to a collective bargaining agreement. While no groups of employees at any of our other operations have commenced similar organizational activities, we cannot guarantee that our other employees will remain non-unionized. Collective bargaining agreements may require us to negotiate wages, salaries, benefits and other terms with one or more groups of our employees collectively, through a union representative, and could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our labor costs or otherwise restricting our ability to maximize the efficiency of our operations. In addition, the various jurisdictions where we operate our spas and Ideal Image centers have their own licensing or similar requirements applicable to our employees, which could affect our ability to open new spas or Ideal Image centers on a timely basis or adequately staff existing spas and Ideal Image centers. The ship we serve that is United States-based also is subject to United States labor law requirements that can result in delays in obtaining adequate staffing. Possible Adverse Changes in United States or Foreign Tax Laws or Changes in our Business Could Increase our Taxes Background Steiner Leisure is a Bahamas international business company ("IBC") that, directly or indirectly, owns, among other entities: Steiner Transocean Limited ("Steiner Transocean"), our principal subsidiary and a Bahamas IBC that conducts our shipboard operations, primarily outside United States waters (which constitutes most of our shipboard activities), and Steiner Management Services, LLC, a Florida limited liability company that performs administrative services in connection with our operations in exchange for fees from Steiner Transocean and other subsidiaries ("Management Services"). 37 We also own, directly or indirectly, the shares of additional subsidiaries in the United States, the United Kingdom and other taxable jurisdictions as well as subsidiaries in jurisdictions in which the subsidiaries are not subject to tax. Currently, Steiner Leisure and its Bahamas IBC subsidiaries are not subject to Bahamas indirect and income tax or other income tax, except as set forth below. Our United States subsidiaries are subject to United States federal income tax as a consolidated group at regular corporate rates up to 35%. Generally, any dividends paid by our United States holding company to its parent, Steiner Leisure, are subject to a 30% United States withholding tax. Other than as described below, we believe that none of the income generated by our non-United States subsidiaries should be effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and, accordingly, that such income should not be subject to United States federal income tax. A foreign corporation generally is subject to United States federal corporate income tax at a rate of up to 35% on its United States-source income that is effectively connected with its trade or business within the United States and on certain limited types of its foreign-source income that is effectively connected to a trade or business it conducts in the United States. A foreign corporation also can be subject to a branch profits tax of 30% imposed on its after-tax earnings that are so effectively connected. Steiner Transocean has three types of income: income from the provision of spa services, income from the sales of spa products purchased (at prices determined on an arm's length basis) from another non-United States subsidiary of ours and income from leasing (at rates determined on an arm's length basis) its shipboard employees and space to a United States subsidiary of ours that performs spa services and sells spa products while the ships are in United States waters and pays Steiner Transocean the amounts referenced above (the "U.S. Waters Activities"). We believe that most of Steiner Transocean's shipboard income should be treated as foreign-source income, not effectively connected to a business it conducts in the United States. This belief is based on the following: ● all of the functions performed, resources employed and risks assumed in connection with the performance of the above-mentioned services and sales (other than Steiner Transocean's involvement in the U.S. Waters Activities) occur outside of the United States; and ● income to Steiner Transocean from the U.S. Waters Activities is income effectively connected with a United States trade or business, and thus subject to United States income taxation, but constitutes a small percentage of Steiner Transocean's total income. The Risks to Us Under United States Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") regulations, which were effective January 1, 2007, all or a portion of Steiner Transocean's income for periods commencing on that date could be subject to United States federal income tax at a rate of up to 35%: ● to the extent the income from Steiner Transocean's shipboard operations that we believe are performed outside of United States territorial waters is considered by the IRS to be attributable to functions performed, resources employed or risks assumed within the United States or its possessions or territorial waters; ● to the extent the income from Steiner Transocean's sale of spa products for use, consumption, or disposition in international waters is considered by the IRS to be attributable to functions performed, resources employed or risks assumed within the United States, its possessions or territorial waters; or ● to the extent that passage of title or transfer of ownership of products sold by Steiner Transocean for use, consumption or disposition outside international waters, takes place in the United States or a United States office materially participates in such sales. If Steiner Transocean is a controlled foreign corporation ("CFC"), any of its shipboard income would be considered income from sources within the United States and would be subject to United States federal income tax unless such income is attributable to functions performed, resources employed or risks assumed in a foreign country or countries. 38 A CFC is any foreign corporation if more than 50% of the (i) total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote or (ii) the total value of the stock of such corporation is owned or considered as owned by "United States shareholders" on any day during the taxable year of such corporation. A United States shareholder, generally, means a "United States person" who owns or is considered to own ten percent or more of the total combined voting power of the stock entitled to vote of such corporation. A "United States person" is a citizen or resident of the United States, a domestic partnership, a domestic corporation, any domestic estate and a trust over which a United States court is able to exercise administrative supervision and over which one or more United States persons have authority to control all substantial decisions. We believe that Steiner Transocean should not be characterized as a CFC. If Steiner Transocean is subject to United States federal income tax (at a rate of up to 35%) on its United States source income and on certain of its foreign-source income that is effectively connected to a business it conducts in the United States, it also would be subject to a branch profits tax of 30% imposed on its after-tax earnings withdrawn, or considered to be withdrawn, from its United States business. Certain non-United States jurisdictions may also assert that Steiner Transocean's income is subject to their income tax. Management Services receives payments from Steiner Transocean and other subsidiaries of Steiner Leisure in return for certain administrative services it provides to Steiner Transocean and those other subsidiaries. The IRS may assert that transactions between Management Services and Steiner Transocean (and between our other direct and indirect subsidiaries) do not contain arm's length terms. In that event, income or deductions could be reallocated among the subsidiaries in a manner that could increase the taxable income of Management Services or other United States subsidiaries of ours. This reallocation also could result in the imposition of interest and penalties. Management Services and other United States subsidiaries of ours also are subject to United States state and local income, franchise and other taxes and certain of our other subsidiaries are subject to taxes in certain other countries. Some of our United Kingdom, Bahamas and United States subsidiaries provide goods and/or services to us and certain of our other subsidiaries. The United Kingdom or United States tax authorities may assert that some or all of these transactions do not contain arm's length terms. In that event, income or deductions could be reallocated among our subsidiaries in a manner that could increase the United Kingdom or United States tax on us. This reallocation also could result in the imposition of interest and penalties. In December 2014, the United Kingdom government announced that it will introduce a “diverted profits tax” which will seek to apply a 25% tax rate to profits of large multinational enterprises (such as the Company) which have been diverted from the United Kingdom by means of transactions through related entities with insufficient economic substance. It is anticipated that the definitive version of this legislation will be effective April 1, 2015. While we believe that all of our affiliated entities and the transactions among them have the required commercial substance, among other things, because the preliminary version of these new rules has been drafted very broadly, we cannot assure you that our U.K.-connected related party transactions and entities will be outside the scope of the final version of these rules. If we are, in fact, subject to this new tax, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that the tax laws on which we have relied to minimize our income taxes will remain unchanged in the future. Our land-based operations, the income from which is generally taxable, have significantly increased and we intend to consider land-based opportunities in the future (though we cannot assure you that we will be successful in finding appropriate opportunities). To the extent that we are able to effectively implement this strategy, the amount of our income that is subject to tax would significantly increase. 39 We Face Competition on Ships and on Land We compete with passenger activity alternatives on cruise ships and with competing providers of services and products similar to ours seeking agreements with cruise lines. Gambling casinos, bars and a variety of shops are found on almost all of the ships served by us. In addition, ships dock in ports which provide opportunities for additional shopping as well as other activities that compete with us for passenger attention and disposable income, and cruise ships are increasingly offering itineraries providing for greater numbers of port days. Cruise ships also typically offer swimming pools and other recreational facilities and activities, as well as musical and other entertainment, all without additional charge to the passengers. Certain cruise lines we formerly served have engaged the services of third parties or their own personnel for the operation of the spas for all or some of their ships. Additional cruise lines could take similar actions in the future. In addition, there are several other entities offering services in the cruise industry similar to those provided by us and we cannot assure you that we will be able to serve new cruise ships that come into service and that are not covered by our cruise line agreements. Many of the land-based venues that we serve or may serve in the future offer recreational entertainment facilities and activities similar to those offered on cruise ships, often without additional charge to guests. A number of the hotels we serve also offer casino gambling. These activities and facilities compete with us for customer time and disposable income. Our land-based spas also compete with other spas in their vicinities, as well as with other beauty, relaxation or other therapeutic alternatives. These include salons that offer these services at prices significantly lower than those charged by us. We believe, however, that the prices charged by us are appropriate for the quality of the experience we provide in our respective markets. In addition, we also compete, both for customers and for contracts with hotels, with spas and beauty salons owned or operated by companies that have offered their land-based spa services longer than we have, some of which enjoy greater name recognition with customers and prospective customers than spas operated by us. Also, a number of these spa operators may have greater resources than we do. Further, some hotel operators provide spa services themselves. The post-secondary education market is highly competitive. Our post-secondary massage and beauty schools compete with providers of similar instruction in the states in which they are located and elsewhere in the United States, including many providers with greater resources than ours. Our schools face competition from, among others, traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other proprietary schools, including those that offer online education programs, as well as from military service and other immediate employment after secondary education. Some public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to proprietary schools such as ours. Lower tuition by our competitors could limit our ability to increase or maintain student enrollment if we increase our tuition charges. There are many competitors in the beauty products industry. Our product sales compete with a variety of other brands, including those of manufacturers with greater resources than ours, and those with greater name recognition. Our success depends on the appeal of our products to a broad range of customers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change, and on our ability to develop new products through product innovations and product line extensions. We may incur expenses in connection with product development, marketing and advertising that are not subsequently supported by a sufficient level of sales, which could negatively affect our results of operations. The cosmetic services industry (including laser hair removal, PicoSure tattoo removal, Ultherapy, facial rejuvenation services, body contouring services, and medi-spa and cosmetic services) is highly competitive with many competitors throughout the United States, including physicians in single and multi-specialty practices, medical spas and independent spa services businesses. Some of those competitors offer the same services (including competitors who charge less for such services than we do) and others also offer alternative services which are less expensive than the cosmetic procedures we offer, including waxing, electrolysis and facials. If we are unable to compete effectively in one or more areas of our operations, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 40 Risks of Non-United States Operations A total of four of our hotel spa operations are located on the Indonesian island of Bali, which, along with the Indonesian capital of Jakarta, has been the site of terrorist attacks. In 2012, the Maldives experienced general political unrest and spas (including those operated by us) were temporarily ordered closed. Countries where we currently or may in the future operate spas have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, adverse developments in the political and economic environment, varying governmental regulations, foreign currency fluctuations and potential adverse tax consequences. In addition, we may experience investment restrictions or requirements, diminished ability to legally enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights and commercial instability caused by corruption in one or more of the foreign countries in which we operate. Our international operations also may be subject to adverse changes in foreign exchange restrictions, and changes in or application of foreign taxation structures, including duties and value-added taxes. Such adverse developments, among other things, could limit visitors to our spas and prevent us from adequately supervising these operations, and any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain locations in Asia where we operate spas lack a local workforce with adequate training. Bringing in trained spa employees from elsewhere is sometimes difficult due to applicable immigration rules. Severe Weather Can Disrupt Our Operations We operate spas in the Caribbean, the Pacific, Asia and other locations which have in the past, and may in the future, be subject to severe weather conditions, including hurricanes, earthquakes and other destructive storms. In addition, hurricane conditions caused us to temporarily close certain of our North American spas during 2011. Similar storms or other destructive natural occurrences affecting the areas in which we, or the cruise lines we serve, have operations could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risk of Early Termination of Land-Based Spa Agreements A number of our land-based spa agreements provide that landlords may terminate the agreement prior to its expiration date (provided, in some cases, that we receive certain compensation with respect to our build-out expenses and earnings lost as a result of such termination). While we always attempt to negotiate the best deal we can in this regard, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully negotiate a termination fee in any of our future agreements or that any amounts we would receive in connection with such termination accurately reflects the economic value of the assets we would be leaving behind as a result of such termination. In addition, in the event of certain terminations of an agreement with a land-based venue, such as by the venue operator after our breach of an agreement, or as a result of the bankruptcy of a venue, even if we have a provision in our agreement providing for a termination payment, we could receive no compensation with respect to build-out expenditures we have incurred. We also attempt to obtain terms in our land-based spa agreements that protect us in the event that the lessor's lender forecloses and takes over the property in question. However, we cannot always obtain such protective "non-disturbance" terms. In the event that the lender to a land-based venue owner under an agreement where no such non-disturbance term is included forecloses on that property, our agreement could be terminated prior to the expiration of its term. In such case, in addition to the loss of income from that spa, we could lose the residual value of any investment we made to build out that facility. We May Have Insufficient Liquidity to Take Advantage of Some Available Opportunities We have been required, in connection with a number of our hotel spa agreements, to incur the cost of the build-out of all or a portion of the hotel spa facilities in amounts up to $21.8 million (including an advance of $6.2 million to cover construction costs), including, in 2011, $5.2 million for the spa at the Tropicana Las Vegas Hotel and Casino. Any spas we may wish to operate in the future could require build-out expenditures, and we cannot assure you that we would have available sufficient resources to take advantage of any such opportunity. We also cannot assure you that any such investment will yield a beneficial return to us. We also may seek acquisitions or other opportunities to grow our business which would require us to expend funds, possibly significant amounts, such as our acquisitions of Bliss and Ideal Image. Each of those acquisitions required us to obtain new funding arrangements and subjected us to restrictions on capital expenditures, and such restrictions are in effect under our current credit facility. Other limitations on capital expenditures, or on other operational matters, could apply in the future. Additionally, our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to be able to take advantage of all otherwise favorable opportunities to operate hotel spas or effectuate other potentially favorable transactions. Generally, as long as we have certain bank agreements outstanding, if we exceed our currently anticipated capital expenditures or our cash flow from operations is less than anticipated, we would need to seek concessions from our lender and/or additional equity or debt financing to fund our business plan. Additional financing, including a new credit facility, may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. 41 Risks Relating to Build-out and Opening of Our Land-Based Facilities In connection with new land-based spas we may seek to operate in the future, we may wish, or be required, to build out all or a portion of the spa's facilities at our own expense as described in the immediately preceding section. Such build-outs involve risks to us, including the following: ● The commencement of the build-outs generally cannot begin until the venue owner has completed its own construction around the premises of the proposed spa. We have no control over that process. The build-out process, as well as weather-related postponements and other factors affecting construction projects generally, could delay our spas' opening dates from those which we may have announced to the public and could result in a loss of revenue to us. ● If the land-based venue or operator owner files for bankruptcy or otherwise has financial problems prior to the opening of the spa, the spa may never commence operations. We may lose substantial funds expended on the build-out to that point if we lose our rights to build out and/or operate that spa as a result of a bankruptcy or similar proceeding. For example, the parent company of two of the hotels where we operate luxury spas has filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. While that hotel was subsequently sold to a new owner and we continue to conduct our operations there, we cannot assure you that our operations at other facilities we operate will not be subject to bankruptcy proceedings or other financial problems. Such proceedings or other problems at a land-based spa could have a material adverse effect on our operations at that venue. In addition, openings of new land-based spas may be delayed for reasons not related to build-outs. Among other things, adverse local economic or political conditions, hostility in the region, unavailability of labor or outbreaks of illnesses could delay commencement of our operations at land-based spas beyond the dates which we may have announced to the public. The construction and bankruptcy risks related to spa venue owners are also applicable to the build-out and openings of new schools that we propose to operate. In addition, the regulatory approvals required for our schools and the need to recruit for appropriately licensed personnel for our Ideal Image centers could also cause delays in proposed and announced opening dates for these facilities. Risks Related to Quality of Training at Our Schools Prospective employers of graduates of our schools require new employees to have received training reflecting the latest methods for performing the services involved. If our training is unable to keep pace with the constantly changing demands of providers and consumers in the massage and skincare areas, this could adversely affect the ability of our students to find employment after completing their training with us, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our ability to attract students. Risks Related to Student Enrollment and Retention and Faculty Retention at Our Schools In order for our schools to be successful, we must enroll and retain students at rates which would support such success. While we use a variety of means to market our schools to prospective students, among other things, the competition for students among schools similar to ours and other types of post-secondary schools is intense. The failure to maintain student enrollment and retention rates at sufficient levels could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of our schools. The July 2011 DOE Regulations regarding incentive compensation have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect on student enrollments and could have an adverse effect on student retention. The continued tightening of credit markets have resulted in some providers of loans ceasing to provide loans to students or reducing the availability and attractiveness of loans to students, including high credit risk individuals who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based loans. To the extent that significant student loan providers continue to further restrict or cease their student lending activities, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if prospective students of ours consist, to a significantly greater extent than our current student body, of higher credit risk individuals, those students could have difficulty obtaining financing for their tuition payments to us and this could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 42 We offer payment plans to help students pay that portion of their education expense not covered by financial aid programs, including plans under which these balances are unsecured and not guaranteed. As a result of the July 2011 DOE Regulations and a reduction in the availability of other financing alternatives for our students, the number of our students utilizing these payment plans has increased. Losses related to unpaid student balances could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of our schools. We are required to comply with federal and state laws applicable to payment plans and are subject to oversight and enforcement by federal and state agencies with respect to our lending and other activities. The loss of our ability to offer these payment plans to students as a result of being penalized for failing to comply with the applicable laws and regulations governing such payment plans or as a result of changes in the applicable laws or regulations that would preclude us from offering these plans could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The success of our schools also depends on our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of faculty members with appropriate qualifications and experience, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain such faculty when, and in the locations, needed. Inability of our Graduates to Obtain Professional Licenses or Certification in Their Chosen Field of study Could Result in Declining Enrollments and Revenues or Student Claims Against us. Many of our students require professional licenses and certifications in order to obtain employment in their chosen fields. Many factors affect a student’s ability to become licensed, including whether the student’s program and institution are accredited by a particular accrediting commission or approved by a professional association or by the state in which the student seeks employment, passage of licensure examinations and the student’s own qualifications. If one or more states or local governments deny licenses, certifications or employment eligibility to a significant number of our students, or if there is a significant delay in the processing of licensure applications for a significant number of our students, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to regulatory concerns and declining enrollments in those institutions or programs, or face student claims or litigation that could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. High Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Attract and Retain Students Any future increases in interest rates result in a corresponding increase in the cost to some of our existing and prospective students of financing their education. This could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our schools and could adversely affect our schools' results of operations and financial condition. Higher interest rates also could contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students' repayment of loans. Higher default rates may, in turn, adversely impact the eligibility of a school to participate in the Title IV Programs and/or the willingness of private lenders to make private loan programs available to students who attend certain schools, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending those schools. Hostilities May Adversely Impact Our Financial Results The cruise lines we serve operate in waters and call on ports throughout the world and our land-based spas are located in a variety of countries. These waters and countries include geographic regions that, from time to time, experience political and civil unrest and armed hostilities. In recent years, cruise ships, including those we serve, have experienced attempted pirate attacks off the coast of Africa. In addition, in past years, our hotel spa operations in Asia have been adversely affected by terrorist bombings. Political unrest in areas where we operate spas also has adversely affected our operations and continued political unrest in the Middle East has adversely affected the travel industry in that region. The threat of additional attacks and of armed hostilities internationally or locally may cause prospective travelers to cancel their plans, including plans for cruise or land-based venue vacations. Weaker cruise industry and land-based venue performance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 43 Risks to our Operations Related to Weather A number of our Schools division campuses and Ideal Image centers are located in Florida, which, from time to time, experiences severe hurricanes. Such hurricanes cause businesses in that state, including some of our locations, to close for varying periods of time. We also have Schools division campuses and Ideal Image locations located in states that experience other severe weather occurrences. In the winter of 2015, our Mid-Atlantic, Baltimore, Boston, Hoboken and Pennsylvania campuses were forced to close during severe winter storms that affected multiple regions in the United States. This severe weather also has caused us to close a number of our Ideal Image centers and Bliss locations for various periods of time. In the fall of 2012, our Hoboken, New Jersey Schools division campus was closed for approximately a month as a result of Hurricane Sandy and in almost every year during the winter months, including during the current winter, one or more Schools division campuses and Ideal Image centers are impacted to some extent by heavy snow and/or other severe weather conditions, resulting in closures from time to time. To the extent that these types, or any other type, of severe weather occurs again in states where we operate our schools and Ideal Image centers, some of those locations could be required to close for periods of time which could, particularly if such severe weather results in damage to our facilities, materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of our schools and Ideal Image operations. Prolonged closings of our facilities due to adverse weather (or otherwise) also could adversely affect our ability to successfully market our schools to prospective students and Ideal Image customers. Impact of Economy on Our Schools We believe that many students pursue post-secondary education to be more competitive in the job market. The perception of the economy by prospective students of our Schools can impact our Schools by influencing their perception of job prospects, placement rates and the willingness of students to incur loans to pay for post-secondary education, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of our Schools, as enrollment and our ability to maintain minimum job placement rates required by our accrediting agencies and, in some cases, by our state licensing agencies, would suffer. A recurrence of the economic slowdown experienced in certain prior years also can adversely affect the ability of our students to repay their student loans. This would hurt us because default rates on government insured loans are a criterion to be met to maintain our eligibility to participate in the Title IV Programs and defaults on loans directly from us to students reduce our revenues. Government Regulation - General As described in more detail below, we are subject to a variety of governmental regulations with respect to our various operations. In addition to the requirements and limitations that these regulations currently impose on us, these regulations are subject to change that could further limit our activities. Additional regulations also could be adopted in the future that could add further requirements and/or limitations with respect to our business. Government Regulation – Schools Failure of our Schools to Comply with Extensive Regulations Could Result in Monetary Liabilities and Other Adverse Consequences. We derive a large portion of our massage and beauty school revenue from students participating in the Title IV Programs. The majority of our students rely on federal student financial assistance received under the Title IV Programs to help pay for the cost of their education. In order to provide eligible students with access to Title IV Program funds, our schools must be eligible to participate in the Title IV Programs. Among other things, in order to participate in the Title IV Programs, each school must be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the DOE, legally authorized to provide post-secondary educational programs in the state in which it is physically located, and certified by the DOE as part of an eligible institution. These approvals, accreditations, and certifications must typically be renewed from time to time with the applicable agencies. Consequently, each of our schools is subject to the extensive requirements of the HEA and the regulations promulgated by the DOE, as well as to the separate requirements of its respective state licensing and accrediting agencies. These regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, payment of refunds to students who withdraw from school, acquisitions or openings of additional schools, additions of new educational programs and changes in our corporate structure. Any failure to comply with the HEA or DOE regulations, state laws or regulations, or accrediting body standards could subject any or all of our schools to loss of eligibility to participate in the Title IV Programs, loss of state licensure or accreditation, monetary liabilities with respect to funds determined to have been improperly disbursed, fines or other sanctions. Because the DOE periodically revises its regulations and changes its interpretations of existing laws and regulations, we cannot predict with certainty how Title IV Program requirements will be applied in all circumstances or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. Because a majority of our students pay their tuition with financial assistance from the Title IV Programs, the continued eligibility to participate in these programs is critical to the success of our schools. Increased regulation in recent years related to the operations of our schools has required us to increase the amount of funds we spend on compliance-related matters. Any loss or limitation on the eligibility of our schools to participate in the Title IV Programs could adversely affect our schools' results of operations and financial condition. 44 Compliance Reviews Because our schools operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to audits, compliance reviews, inquiries, complaints, investigations, claims of non-compliance and lawsuits of federal and state governmental agencies and accrediting bodies, present and former students and employees and other third parties who may allege violations of any regulatory requirements applicable to our schools. The HEA and its implementing regulations also require that an institution's administration of Title IV Program funds be audited annually by an independent accounting firm. The resulting audit report must be submitted to the DOE for review. If the results of any such reviews or claims by the DOE or other individuals or entities are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, operational limitations, loss of federal funding, loss of state licensure or accreditation, or other sanctions. Even if we adequately address issues raised by any such claims or actions, we may have to devote significant financial and management resources to do so. In addition, claims that we failed to comply with applicable rules, even if without basis, could lead to adverse publicity about our schools, which could adversely affect our schools' results of operations and financial condition. Although we endeavor to comply with all federal and state laws and implementing regulations, we cannot guarantee that our interpretation of the relevant rules will be upheld by the DOE or other agencies, or upon judicial review. Administrative Capability Regulations adopted by the DOE specify criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite "administrative capability" to participate in the Title IV Programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution comply with all applicable federal student financial aid regulations; have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; provide financial aid counseling to its students; and submit all reports and financial statements required by the regulations. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria, or any other of the legal and regulatory requirements of the Title IV Programs, the DOE may require the repayment of federal student financial aid funds improperly disbursed or retained; transfer the institution from the "advance" system of payment of federal student financial aid funds to the "reimbursement" system of payment or "cash monitoring;" place the institution on provisional certification status; or commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in the Title IV Programs. If one or more of our schools loses or is limited in its access to, or is required to repay, federal student financial aid funds due to a failure to demonstrate administrative capability or to comply with other requirements of the Title IV Programs, our schools business could be materially adversely affected. Legislative and Regulatory Action The Title IV Programs, under which most of our schools' students receive federal student financial assistance, are subject to political and budgetary considerations. The HEA, which authorizes the Title IV Programs, is subject to reauthorization on a periodic basis. The HEA was last reauthorized through September 30, 2014, but was automatically extended through September 30, 2015. The HEA also is subject to amendment at any time by Congress. We cannot predict when or the extent to which the HEA might be amended during the reauthorization process or at any other time. In addition, funding is subject to annual appropriations bills and other laws. Accordingly, there is no assurance that funding for the Title IV Programs will be maintained at current levels. In addition, the DOE could take regulatory actions that could require us to adjust our practices or could limit or impact our Title IV Program eligibility. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, Title IV Program funds would have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of our schools, because the schools' student enrollment would be likely to decline, as many of our students would be unable to finance their education without the availability of Title IV Program funds. 45 In December 2011, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, among other things, eliminated federal student aid eligibility, with certain exceptions, for all students who first enroll on or after July 1, 2012 and who do not have a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate. As a result, many of these students, who would have qualified to receive Title IV Program funds as "ability-to-benefit" students, are not eligible for Title IV Program assistance under the new law and may be unable to enroll in our institutions without the ability to qualify for Title IV Program funds. The inability of these "ability-to-benefit" students to enroll in our institutions has adversely affected, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our schools' results of operations and financial condition. State Regulation and Accreditation Our schools are also subject to state-level regulation and oversight by state licensing agencies, whose approval is necessary to allow an institution to operate and grant degrees or diplomas. Our schools also must be legally authorized to offer post-secondary educational programs of instruction in the states in which they are physically located in order to participate in the Title IV Programs. State laws vary from state to state, but, generally, require schools to meet tests relating to financial matters, administrative capabilities, faculty qualifications, educational criteria, location and nature of facilities, new programs and student instruction, marketing and recruitment, and the rates at which students complete their programs and the rates at which students are placed into employment. Any failure by one of our schools to maintain state authorization would result in that school being unable to offer educational programs and students attending the campus being ineligible for the Title IV Programs. The July 2011 DOE Regulations amended the requirements for an institution to be considered "legally authorized" in a state. In some cases, the regulations require states to revise their current requirements and/or to license schools in order for institutions to be deemed legally authorized in those states and, in turn, to participate in the Title IV Programs. If the states do not amend their requirements where necessary and if schools do not receive approvals where necessary that comply with these new requirements, then the institution could be deemed to lack the state authorization necessary to participate in the Title IV Programs. The DOE has not published a list of states that meet, or fail to meet, the above requirements, and it is uncertain how the department will interpret these requirements in each state. Therefore, although we have endeavored to comply with these new regulations, we cannot guarantee that our interpretation of the relevant regulations will be upheld by the DOE or other agencies, or upon judicial review. In addition, the DOE announced its intent to consider new regulations regarding state authorization for programs offered through distance education beginning with a negotiated rulemaking committee convening in February 2014, but, to date, the Department has not published proposed or final regulations on this subject. We cannot predict the ultimate content of any new regulations that may emerge from this process or the potential impact of such regulations on us or our institutions. We have obtained accreditation and state approvals for our Arlington, Texas campus and have obtained approval from the DOE for the campus to participate in the Title IV Programs. In order to be eligible to participate in the Title IV Programs, the campus must, among other things, meet DOE requirements for being considered “legally authorized” in the State of Texas. If the DOE determines that a state agency’s approval does not comply with DOE requirements, the DOE has established a process under which the effective date of the requirements will be extended through June 30, 2015 if the state provides an explanation of how an additional one-year extension will permit the state to finalize its procedures so that the approvals provided to institutions comply with state authorization requirements and requests such extension. The DOE has approved the Arlington campus to participate in the Title IV programs. The DOE had previously notified us on August 4, 2014 that it had denied the application for DOE approval of the Arlington campus to participate in the Title IV programs based on the DOE’s conclusion that documentation of the authorization from the Texas Department of State Health Services (“DSHS”) was insufficient to demonstrate compliance with DOE requirements and based on the documentation from DSHS not containing the required explanation or extension request as referenced above. We subsequently requested the DOE to reconsider its determination based in part on additional documentation that we provided. The DOE responded by granting an extension of the effective date of the state authorization rule requirements until June 30, 2015 and approving the Arlington campus to participate in the Title IV programs. 46 We also have two other campuses in Texas (Richardson and Houston) that have approvals from DSHS and that DOE recently approved in 2014 for continued participation in the Title IV Programs. Those two campuses, together with the Arlington campus, represent 14% of the total student population of our schools. If Texas does not change its law to clarify the authority of DSHS in a manner that complies with the state authorization rule of the DOE by June 30, 2015 and if the DOE does not grant a further extension of the effective date of the state authorization rule requirements, we could lose our authority to disburse Title IV funds to students enrolled at our three campuses in Texas, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accreditation Each institution must be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the DOE. Accreditation is a non-governmental process through which an institution submits to a qualitative review by an organization of peer institutions. Accrediting agencies examine the academic quality of the institution's instructional programs as well as other aspects of its operations such as administrative and financial operations. Accrediting agencies must adopt specific standards in connection with their review of post-secondary educational institutions to be recognized by the DOE. All of our schools are institutionally accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the DOE. The DOE relies on the determinations of accrediting agencies as to whether an institution's programs are of sufficient quality for participation in the Title IV Programs. In addition, three of our schools have specialized programmatic accreditation for particular educational programs. One of the criteria for accreditation is based on the ability of a school's graduates to obtain employment in their fields. The programs at our schools require our graduates to obtain a license in almost every state in order to perform the services for which they received their training. Failure to so obtain licenses would prevent students from working in their fields of study which could, if this were to occur to a significant number of our graduates, among other things, have an adverse impact on our operations as a whole. Accrediting agencies conduct regular reviews of the institutions they accredit. If an accrediting agency believes that an institution may be out of compliance with accrediting standards, it may place the institution on probation or a similar warning status or direct the institution to show cause why its accreditation should not be revoked. The institution is then given the opportunity to respond before the institution loses accreditation. The institution may demonstrate that the concern is unfounded, that it has taken corrective action to resolve the concern or that it has implemented an ongoing plan of action which is deemed appropriate to resolve the concern. The accrediting agency may then vacate the probation or show cause order, continue the probation or show cause order, seek additional information through reports required of the institution, or if the agency's concerns are not resolved, withdraw accreditation from the institution. The Utah College of Massage Therapy (comprised of nine campuses) is accredited by ACCET. In July 2013, a total of eight programs at six campuses were subject to a programmatic show cause directive by ACCET, which requires an institution to demonstrate why the accreditation of these programs should not be withdrawn. Since July 2013, a total of 15 programs at eight campuses have been subjected to programmatic show cause at a point in time. In December 2013, ACCET considered the application for reaccreditation of the Utah College of Massage Therapy and notified the institution that it voted to continue the institution’s accredited status pending further review at its April 2014 meeting and to issue an institutional show cause directive requiring the institution to show good cause why its accreditation should not be withdrawn. The institutional show cause was due primarily to job placement rates (and completion rates for certain programs). ACCET accreditation standards include a requirement that an accredited institution and its individual educational programs place a minimum percentage of graduates into qualified jobs with within a specified timeframe. The December 2013 notice from ACCET also identified several other issues in need of further clarification and/or resolution. ACCET subsequently withdrew the institutional show cause action in April 2014. In its December 2014 meeting, ACCET voted to defer further consideration of the application for reaccreditation of the Utah College of Massage Therapy with good cause until April 2015 and reduced the number of programs under programmatic show cause to three massage therapy educational programs and also informed the institution to cease enrollments at four esthetics programs at its campus in Arizona while each program remained on programmatic show cause. 47 The actions taken in the December 2014 notice are based primarily on job placement rates that are below the minimums required by ACCET’s accreditation standards. We believe that job placement rates in these programs have been adversely impacted by, among other factors, the length of time and cost that it takes for a graduate to obtain professional licensure. The process of obtaining professional licensure can include several steps such as passage of a national examination and payment of applicable test fees, payment of application fees, passage of background checks (and payment of applicable fees) and satisfaction of other requirements, all of which vary from state to state. Moreover, the ultimate approval of a graduate's application for professional licensure is generally not subject to a specific timeline and is typically controlled by a state agency. We believe these factors have adversely impacted the length of time it takes for a graduate to become licensed. As a professional license is generally a prerequisite for employment in both the massage and skin care fields, we believe the length and cost of the licensure process has had a negative impact on the institution's job placement rates, within the timeframes established within ACCET’s standards. We intend to submit a response to ACCET explaining why the accreditation of the three massage therapy and four esthetics educational programs currently on show cause should not be withdrawn, and why the four esthetics programs should not be required to continue ceasing enrollments, based on the job placement and other issues identified in the December 2014 notice. We cannot assure you that ACCET will agree with our position or will not take further action against the institution such as withdrawal of the accreditation of the three massage therapy educational programs, continuing to prohibit enrollments in and require the teach-out of the four esthetics programs, and/or taking other actions against the institution and/or its educational programs. Since accreditation is required for an institution or one of its educational programs to be eligible to participate in the federal student financial aid programs, the failure by this school to satisfactorily resolve this order could have a material adverse effect on our schools' business, results of operations and financial condition. In October 2014, COMTA notified the Virginia School of Massage ("VSM") that it had placed the school on probation based primarily on completion and job placement rates. In January 2015, COMTA notified VSM that is has accepted its improvement plan for placement rates but has added a status of Show Cause primarily related to completion rates. While we believe we have strong arguments, and are in the process of submitting a response to the probation and show cause order, we cannot assure you that COMTA will agree with those arguments or will not take further action against the school, including withdrawal of accreditation. VSM is institutionally accredited by ACCSC and relies on accreditation by ACCSC, not COMTA, in order to be eligible to participate in the federal student aid programs. VSM is not required to maintain COMTA programmatic accreditation in order for its graduates to obtain professional licensure, although the loss of COMTA accreditation could impact the reputation of VSM's programs or could impact VSM's institutional accreditation or state licensure. Since institutional accreditation and state licensure are required for a program to be eligible to participate in the federal student financial aid programs, failure by this school to satisfactorily resolve this order could have a material adverse effect on our schools' business, results of operations and financial condition. Impact of Adverse Industry Activities In recent years, the operations of a number of companies in the for-profit post-secondary education industry have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing resulted in investigations by Congress, federal and state law enforcement agencies and others. These allegations, reviews and investigations of other companies and the accompanying adverse publicity could have a negative impact on the post-secondary education industry as a whole, and our schools' business. Change in Control Risks Our growth strategy with respect to our schools includes consideration of acquisitions that we believe would be beneficial to us, such as our acquisitions in recent years of UCMT, CCMT and Cortiva. In addition to the risks applicable to all acquisitions, such as the risk of our inability to successfully integrate the acquired business with our existing operations, any proposed acquisition of an institution that participates in federal student financial aid programs requires that we seek approval from the DOE and applicable state agencies and accrediting authorities. A change of ownership or control of an institution can result in the temporary suspension of the institution's participation in the federal student financial aid programs unless a timely and materially complete application for recertification is filed with the DOE and the DOE issues a temporary certification document. The institution must also obtain final change of ownership approvals from the state licensing agencies and the accrediting authorities, as well as the DOE. If we are unable to obtain approvals from state agencies, accrediting agencies or the DOE for any institution we propose to acquire, the acquired schools would not be permitted to participate in federal student financial aid programs. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on the schools to be acquired and on our schools operations in general. 48 Moreover, if we or one of our schools experiences a change of ownership or control under the standards of the DOE, applicable state agencies or accrediting agencies, we would be required to seek the approval of the relevant agencies. Transactions or events that could constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of our shares, acquisitions of schools from other owners, significant changes in the composition of a school's board of directors or certain other transactions or events, several of which are beyond our control. A change of control under the applicable standards would require the affected school to reaffirm or reapply for the applicable DOE certification, state authorization, or accreditation. In some cases, the approval must be obtained prior to the change of control. The failure of any of our schools to reestablish where necessary its DOE certification, state authorization or accreditation following a transaction involving a change of ownership or control would result in a suspension of operating authority, loss of accreditation, and/or suspension or loss of federal student aid funding. We may also consider expanding our schools' operations through the creation of new schools or the establishment of branches in new locations of one or more of our existing schools, which expansion activities would subject us to the need for approval from the DOE and applicable state agencies and accrediting authorities, creating risks similar to the risks associated with acquisitions of new schools, as described above. If we open new schools or branch campuses of our existing schools or offer new programs before these new locations or program offerings receive the required regulatory approvals, our students at those schools or campuses, or in those programs, would not be eligible for Title IV financing. July 2011 DOE Regulations In October 2010, the DOE issued the July 2011 DOE Regulations, most of which became effective on July 1, 2011. The implementation of the July 2011 DOE Regulations have adversely affected the results of operations of our schools and have required us to change certain of our business practices and to incur costs of compliance associated with developing and implementing changes in operations. The July 2011 DOE Regulations have affected our student recruitment and enrollment by, among other things, reducing the financial aid or government sponsored loan amounts a student can receive and adversely impacting our ability to compensate certain employees, and such regulations may have other material effects on our schools' business, including limiting our ability to grow that business. The DOE intends to use the negotiated rulemaking process during 2015 to develop new regulations on other topics. These regulations typically would be subject to a notice and comment period during which the public comments on proposed regulations and the DOE responds to comments and publishes final regulations. We cannot predict the ultimate content of any new regulations that may emerge from this process or the potential impact of such regulations on us or our institutions. Gainful Employment Rules In October 2014, the DOE issued final regulations on gainful employment requiring each of our educational programs to achieve threshold rates in two debt measure categories related to an annual debt to annual earnings ratio and an annual debt to discretionary income ratio. The various formulas are calculated under complex methodologies and definitions outlined in the final regulations and, in some cases, are based on data that may not be readily accessible to institutions. The regulations outline various scenarios under which programs could lose Title IV eligibility for failure to achieve threshold rates in one or more measures over certain periods of time ranging from two to four years. The regulations also require an institution to provide warnings to students in programs which may lose Title IV eligibility at the end of an award year. The final regulations also contain other provisions that, among other things, include disclosure, reporting, new program approval, and certification requirements. The final regulations have a general effective date of July 1, 2015. The new regulations could require us to change or eliminate certain programs or result in the loss of our students’ access to Title IV federal student aid for impacted programs, which could have an adverse effect on our schools' business. 49 "90/10 Rule" Under this rule, an institution (including any of its additional locations) will cease to be eligible to participate in the Title IV Programs if, on a cash accounting basis, the institution derived more than 90% of its revenues (as calculated under the HEA and DOE regulations) from the Title IV Programs for each of two consecutive fiscal years. An institution which fails to satisfy the 90/10 Rule for one fiscal year is placed on provisional certification and may be subject to other sanctions. If one of our institutions fails to comply with the 90/10 Rule, the institution (including its main campus and all of its additional locations) could lose its eligibility to participate in the Title IV Programs. Since the expiration of such relief, we have experienced adverse effects on our ability to comply with this rule and may experience an increase to such adverse effects on our ability to comply with this rule in the future. Moreover, if Congress or the DOE were to modify the 90/10 rule by lowering the 90% threshold, counting other federal funds in the same manner as Title IV funds in the 90/10 calculation, or otherwise amending the calculation methodology (each of which has been proposed by some Congressional members in proposed legislation), these or other changes to the 90/10 Rule could adversely affect our ability to the comply with the 90/10 Rule. Financial Ratios An institution participating in the Title IV Programs must comply with certain measures of financial responsibility under DOE regulations. Among other things, an institution must achieve an acceptable composite score, which is calculated by combining the results of three separate financial ratios. If an institution's composite score is below the minimum requirement, but above a designated threshold level, such institution may take advantage of an alternative that allows it to continue to participate in the Title IV Programs for up to three years under certain "zone alternative" requirements, including additional monitoring procedures and the heightened cash monitoring or the reimbursement methods of payment (the latter method would require the school to cover the costs of a student's enrollment and then seek reimbursement of such costs from the DOE). If an institution's composite score falls below this threshold level or is between the minimum for an acceptable composite score and the threshold for more than three consecutive years, the institution will be required to post a letter of credit in favor of the DOE in order to continue to participate in the Title IV Programs and may be subject to zone alternative and other requirements. While currently none of our schools are required to post such DOE letter of credit or accept such other conditions, if our schools fail to satisfy the applicable standards in the future, any required letter of credit, if obtainable, and any limitations on our participation in federal student financial aid programs, could adversely affect the results of operations of our schools. Default Rates Our institutions (including their main campuses and all additional locations) could lose their eligibility to participate in some or all of the federal student financial aid programs if their cohort default rates fail to remain below statutory and regulatory benchmarks. For each federal fiscal year, the DOE calculates for each institution participating in the Title IV Programs a "cohort default rate" measuring the percentage of students who default on certain Title IV loans under a methodology prescribed under the HEA and DOE regulations. Under current law, the cohort default rate for the fiscal year is based on the percentage of students who enter into repayment on a FFEL or Direct Loan during the fiscal year and default on the loan on or before the end of the fiscal year or the subsequent two federal fiscal years. An institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all the Title IV Programs if, for each of the three most recent federal fiscal years for which information is available, 30% or more of its students who became subject to a repayment obligation in that federal fiscal year defaulted on such obligation by the end of the federal fiscal year or the subsequent two federal fiscal years. In addition, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all the Title IV Programs if its cohort default rate exceeds 40% in the most recent federal fiscal year for which default rates have been calculated by the DOE. An institution whose cohort default rate equals or exceeds 30% for two of the three most recent federal fiscal years for which rates have been issued by the DOE may be placed on provisional certification by the DOE. The continuing economic slowdown could have an adverse impact on the ability of students to make repayments, thus increasing our schools' default rates. If any of our schools were to lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs because of high student loan default rates, it could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of our schools. 50 Impermissible Recruiting, Admissions or Financial Aid Payments Schools participating in the Title IV Programs may not provide any commission, bonus or any other incentive compensation based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollment or financial aid to any person or entity, engaging in any student recruitment or admission activity or making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds. The law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances. Moreover, the July 2011 DOE Regulations eliminated all 12 safe harbors and thereby reduced the scope of permissible payments under the rule and expanded the scope of employees subject to the rule. The DOE stated when it published the final regulations that it did not intend to provide private guidance regarding particular compensation structures in the future and will enforce the incentive compensation rule as written. We cannot predict how the DOE will interpret the rule, but, in any event, we have had to modify some of our compensation practices as a result of the elimination of the safe harbors. These modifications have affected our ability to appropriately compensate and retain our admissions representatives and other officers and employees, as well as affected our enrollments, both of which have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on the results and operations and financial condition of our schools. In addition, if the DOE determined that our compensation practices violated these standards, the DOE could subject our schools to monetary fines or penalties or other sanctions. Any substantial fine, penalty or other sanction against our schools could have a material adverse effect on our schools' results of operations and financial condition. Government Regulation – Labor and Security Matters We are subject to applicable labor-related laws and rules based on maritime conventions and the laws of various jurisdictions which govern the ships we serve with respect to our shipboard (including on one United States-based ship, which is subject to United States law) and land-based staff. New rules under the Maritime Labour Convention 2006 add requirements as to the hiring, training and hours of work and compensation of shipboard employees. These rules became effective in August 2013 and have significantly increased our expenses associated with our shipboard employees. In addition, many of the cruise ships we serve call on United States ports and are, therefore, subject to security requirements which have increased in recent years. These requirements, as well as additional legislation or regulations that may be enacted in the future, could increase the cruise industry's cost of doing business, which could adversely affect that industry. Government Regulation - Products Our advertising and product labeling practices in the United States are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission and the Food and Drug Administration, as well as various other federal, state and local regulatory authorities. To the extent that the packaging or promotional materials for our products are deemed to be making claims of medical efficacy, this could result in closer scrutiny by regulatory authorities. If government regulators were to determine that any of our products were being sold through exaggerated claims of medical efficacy, among other things, sales of such products in the United States could be barred. The contents of our products that are sold in the United States also are subject to regulation in the United States. We are subject to similar regulation under the laws of the United Kingdom and certain European Union laws. Federal, state and local regulations in the United States and non-United States jurisdictions, designed to protect consumers or the environment, could increase the cost of, or otherwise materially adversely affect, the advertising, manufacturing and packaging of our products and can subject us to liability in private civil lawsuits. Our products also are subject to rules relating to importation and sales in a number of the countries where we sell our products. These regulations require us to expend resources related to compliance with these rules in order to be able to import and/or sell our products in those countries. Government Regulation - Ideal Image Corporate Practice of Medicine Prohibitions Could Limit Ideal Image's Business The laws in many of the states in which we operate, or may in the future operate, Ideal Image centers, prohibit business entities from practicing medicine and from exercising control over or employing physicians who practice medicine. This corporate practice of medicine prohibition is intended to prevent unlicensed persons from interfering with or inappropriately influencing a physician's professional judgment. These and other laws may also prevent fee-splitting, which is the sharing of professional service income with non-professional or business interests. The interpretation and enforcement of these laws vary significantly from state to state. Governmental authorities may determine that our relationships with our affiliated physicians and practice groups violate state corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting prohibitions. In addition, governmental authorities could determine that we have not complied with new laws which may be enacted, rendering our arrangements illegal. If any of these events occur, Ideal Image could be subject to significant fines and penalties, or could be required to change the way it does business, which, in either case, could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of Ideal Image. 51 Referral Fee Prohibitions Could Impair Ideal Image's Business The laws in some of the states in which we operate or, may in the future operate, Ideal Image centers prohibit physicians and other health care providers from referring customers to centers in which the physician or other healthcare provider has a financial interest. Some states also have anti-kickback statutes which prohibit the payment for referrals. These laws may affect our ability to receive referrals from physicians with whom we have financial relationships, such as our medical directors. Some of these statutes include exemptions applicable to our medical directors and other physician relationships or for financial interests limited to shares of publicly traded stock. Some, however, include no explicit exemption for medical director services or other services for which we contract. If these statutes are interpreted to apply to referring physicians with whom we contract for medical director services, we may be required to terminate or restructure some or all of our relationships with, or refuse referrals from, these referring physicians or be subject to civil and administrative sanctions, including, but not limited to, refund requirements. Such events could cause physicians to not refer customers to our centers and could adversely affect our ability to procure the services of medical directors, each of which circumstances could materially adversely affect our Ideal Image business. HIPAA The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing privacy and security regulations, as amended by the federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (collectively referred to as "HIPAA"), requires us to provide certain protections to customers and their health information, including limiting the uses and disclosure of customer health information existing in any media form (electronic and hardcopy). HIPAA also requires us to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards with respect to customer health information maintained in electronic format. HIPAA provides for monetary penalties up to an annual maximum penalty of $1,500,000 for violations by us or our employees, based on the nature and extent of the violation and the nature and extent of the harm. Any violation of HIPAA by us or one of our employees could lead to substantial penalties, which could adversely impact the conduct of our Ideal Image business as well as the results of operations and financial condition of that business. Franchise Regulation Could Limit Our Ability to Take Certain Actions With Regard to our Franchisees Ideal Image's franchise activities are subject to federal and state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises and the dictating the nature of our franchise relationships. These laws impose registration requirements, extensive disclosure requirements and other requirements on the offer and sale of franchises. In some jurisdictions, the laws relating to the governance of franchise relationships impose fair dealing standards during the term of the franchise relationships and limitations on a franchisor like us, including with respect to termination or refusal to renew a franchise. Those laws may require us to retain an under-performing franchise, which we otherwise would not retain, which could adversely impact our revenues. While we currently do not anticipate offering any new Ideal Image franchise opportunities, we cannot predict the nature and effect of any future legislation or regulation on our franchise operations. Government Regulation - Land-Based Spas Our land-based spa operations are subject to applicable regulations in the locations where such operations are conducted, which requires our businesses and the individuals providing the services to be licensed. These regulations could adversely affect our ability to sell, or could increase the cost of, our services and products. Among other things, local immigration laws could impede our ability to obtain work permits needed for employees at our land-based spas. In addition, a number of countries have complex regulations related to importation of products, including our products, that we use or sell at our spas. Compliance with those regulations can be time-consuming and expensive. To the extent we would only be operating one spa in a country which has such a regulatory scheme, unless it were to be a very large spa, it may not be economically viable for us to use and sell our products at that spa. In such a case, locally available products of suitable quality may not be available to us on economically beneficial terms or at all as a replacement for our products. Accordingly, such product importation regulations could preclude us from operating spas in one or more countries where we otherwise believe such operations could be beneficial for us. 52 Product Liability and Other Potential Claims Could Adversely Affect Us The nature and use of our products and services could give rise to liability, including product liability, if a customer were injured while receiving one of our services (including those performed by students at our schools) or were to suffer adverse reactions following the use of our products. Adverse reactions could be caused by various factors beyond our control, including hypoallergenic sensitivity and the possibility of malicious tampering with our products. Guests at our spa facilities also could be injured, among other things, in connection with their use of our fitness equipment, sauna facilities or other facilities. If any of these events occurred, we could incur substantial litigation expense and be required to make payments in connection with settlements of claims or as a result of judgments against us. In addition, our product advertising claims have given rise, on occasion, to claims of misrepresentation. We have always denied the validity of such claims, and we believe our product-related representations are accurate and fair. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to similar claims in the future. We maintain insurance to cover a number of risks associated with our business. While we seek to obtain comprehensive insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates, we cannot be certain that appropriate insurance will be available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our insurance policies are subject to coverage limits, exclusions and deductible levels and are subject to non-renewal upon termination at the option of the applicable insurance company. Our inability to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates for the potential liabilities that we face could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in connection with insured claims, we bear the risks associated with the fact that insurers often control decisions relating to pre-trial settlement of claims and other significant aspects of claims and their decisions may prove to not be in our best interests in all cases. We believe that our current coverage is adequate to protect us against most of the significant risks involved in the conduct of our business, but we self-insure or use higher deductibles for various risks. Accordingly, we are not protected against all risks (including failures by third party service providers such as insurance brokers to fulfill their duties), which could result in unexpected increases in our expenses in the event of certain claims against us. As the types of services we offer increase, such as the additions of acupuncture, teeth whitening, medi-spa and cosmetic services, laser hair removal, tattoo removal, skin tightening services, facial rejuvenation and body contouring services, the potential for claims against us also could increase. We self-insure potential claims regarding certain of our medi-spa services. High visibility claims also could cause us to receive adverse publicity and suffer a loss of sales, and, therefore, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected in such cases. We are, and may in the future be, subject to other legal proceedings, including claims presented as class actions. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and we cannot predict the outcome of individual matters with assurance. It is reasonably possible that the final resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cash flows. We Face Risks Relating to the Financing of Ideal Image Services Very few of Ideal Image's customers pay for their services in full in advance. Most Ideal Image customers pay for the services in one of the following ways: (i) through loans from a third party financing source which provides funding for the purchases to many of Ideal Image's customers, (ii) financing from other third party sources, for customers who have higher credit risk profiles (we are subject to recourse in the event of non-payment of these loans), (iii) payment for the services on a pro-rata basis each time a service is performed, (iv) monthly payments over the course of a 12 month period made by automatic deduction from a customer's credit card, (v) monthly payments over the course of an 18 month period made by automatic deduction from a customer's credit card, (vi) cash, checks and gift card redemptions and (vii) other payment terms that are extended by Ideal Image. Accordingly, unless customers use third party financing sources (we pay the bank fees for certain of these loans to our customers), we face the risk that Ideal Image's customers who agree to purchase services may, in fact, not fulfill their payment obligations in connection with such agreements. 53 We rely on a single third party financing source to provide most of the funding for services purchased by customers of Ideal Image. That financing source is not required to make a loan to any particular Ideal Image customer. In addition, while we have an agreement with this provider, we cannot assure you of the continued availability of this financing source to provide funding for Ideal Image services. If this financing source were to cease providing such funding to Ideal Image customers and we were not able to find a replacement for such lender, Ideal Image would be required to provide, on its own behalf, financing alternatives to customers similar to those of our current primary customer lender or suffer a loss of customers and a reduction in our revenues. We provide no assurance that the single third party financing source relationship will continue. The cessation of this third party financing source relationship could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if interest rates increase or the primary financing source currently providing financing to Ideal Image's customers or other financial institutions decide to restrict credit to consumers in general or for our services specifically, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected since many of Ideal Image's customers utilize third party financing to pay for services at Ideal Image. The Financial Environment Could Put Our Cash at Risk We maintain our cash and cash equivalents with reputable major financial institutions. Deposits with these banks exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits and similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. While we monitor daily the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if one or more of the financial institutions with which we deposit were to fail or become subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. We can provide no assurance that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets. Our Credit Facility Financing Could Restrict Our Activities In 2011, we entered into a new credit facility in connection with our acquisition of Ideal Image. That agreement, as amended, contains certain affirmative, negative and financial covenants that could restrict us from taking actions which our management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of Steiner Leisure and its shareholders. These covenants would remain applicable even when there are no amounts outstanding under the credit facility. Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants could be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the credit facility. Upon the occurrence of such a default, the outstanding principal, together with all accrued interest under our credit facility would, at the option of our lenders, become immediately due and payable. Substantially all of our assets are subject to a security interest in favor of the lenders under our credit facility. If we were unable to repay amounts that become due under the credit facility when such repayment is due, our lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness and/or accelerate the due date of our indebtedness, either of which actions could materially adversely affect our business and operations. Need for Growth in Product Sales and Risk Relating to Retail Rollouts In order for us to grow, we need to find additional sources of revenue. In addition to our acquisitions of Onboard, Ideal Image and Cortiva, we continue to place emphasis on growth in sales of our principal existing product lines, Elemis and Bliss, apart from sales on cruise ships and at our land-based spas. While we believe that our Elemis and Bliss day spas assist us in our efforts to increase sales of those products, we cannot assure you that these spas will have significant positive effects on such distribution efforts because, among other things, those spas are few in number and located in limited geographic areas. In recent years, in the British Isles and the United States, we have been selling our Elemis products in dedicated areas of well-known department stores and other retail establishments. Bliss products are also sold in well-known department stores and specialty stores. From time to time in the future we may announce additional agreements with retail venues to operate such dedicated sales areas for our products. Those agreements may be in a non-written form and may otherwise not be formal commitments. Accordingly, even if we announce our intention to commence retail product sale operations at certain venues, we cannot provide assurance that, in fact, such operations will be effectuated in all instances. Also, various non-U.S. jurisdictions have their own product content requirements, and certain of the products that we sell in the United States may not be eligible for sale in other countries without changes to their contents, which may not be practicable. 54 Need to Expand our Spa Services The demands of consumers with respect to spa services and products continue to evolve. Among other things, there is a continuing trend to add services at spa facilities similar to those traditionally provided in medical facilities, including services relating to skin care. In order for us to maintain our base of customers and expand our spa business, we must continue to expand our menu of services to keep up with these demands, as we have done in recent years by offering teeth whitening, acupuncture, medi-spa, tattoo removal, skin tightening services, facial rejuvenation and body contouring services. These services, as well as other services that consumers may demand, may enhance our exposure to liability for injuries to our customers, including as a result of our inability to obtain insurance for some of the treatments. Our ability to provide certain additional services depends on our ability to find appropriate third parties with whom to work in connection with these services and, in certain cases, could be dependent on our ability to fund substantial costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find such appropriate third parties or be able to fund such costs. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to expand our spa services sufficiently to keep up with consumer demand. Risk Relating to Customer Leads Beginning in the latter part of 2013 and continuing through 2014, there was a decline in the number of Ideal Image customer leads generated through our marketing efforts. We are taking steps to address this decline through changes in our marketing strategy and tactics. However, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful in addressing this matter, and, if they are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our Business Could be Adversely Affected if We are Unable to Successfully Protect Our Trademarks or Obtain new Trademarks The market for our services and, particularly, our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our brand names. Although we take appropriate steps to protect our brand names, in the future, we may not be successful in asserting trademark protection in connection with our efforts to grow our business or otherwise due to the nature of certain of our marks or for other reasons. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. If other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, the value of our brands in the marketplace may be diluted. In addition, any infringement of our intellectual property rights would likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. One or more adverse judgments with respect to these intellectual property rights could negatively impact our ability to compete and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our product formulations are not protectable under applicable intellectual property law. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that competitors of ours will not produce products similar to ours. We are not a United States Company and, as a Result, there are Special Risks Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association, which are similar to the articles of incorporation and bylaws of a United States corporation, and the International Business Companies Act, 2000 of The Bahamas, as amended (the "IBC Act"). There are very few reported judicial cases under the IBC Act. Accordingly, the rights and remedies of our public shareholders in the face of actions by our management, directors or shareholders are less clearly established than would be the case with a company incorporated in a United States jurisdiction or in another country, such as the United Kingdom. 55 Two of our directors reside outside the United States and as a result, it may not be possible to affect service of process within the United States upon such persons. A substantial portion of our assets and the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. It also may not be possible to enforce against them or Steiner Leisure judgments obtained in United States courts based on the civil liability provisions of the United States or the federal securities laws. In the opinion of Harry B. Sands, Lobosky and Company, our Bahamas counsel: ● it is unlikely that Bahamian courts would entertain original actions against Bahamas companies or their directors or officers based solely upon United States federal securities laws; judgments predicated upon any civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws are not directly enforceable in The Bahamas; rather, a lawsuit must be brought in The Bahamas on any such judgment; and ● in general, a judgment obtained after due trial by a court of competent jurisdiction, which is final and conclusive as to the issues in contention, is actionable in Bahamian courts and is impeachable only upon the grounds of fraud, public policy and natural justice. Currency Risk Fluctuations in currency exchange rates compared to the U.S. Dollar can impact our results of operations, most significantly because we pay for the administration of recruitment and training of our shipboard personnel and the manufacturing of our Elemis and La Thérapie products in U.K. Pounds Sterling and Euros. Accordingly, while the relative strength of the U.S. Dollar has improved recently, renewed weakness of the U.S. Dollar against those currencies can adversely affect our results of operations, as has occurred in some recent years. To the extent that the U.K. Pound Sterling or the Euro is stronger than the U.S. Dollar, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Disruptions or Damage to Our Computer Networks Our business relies to a significant extent on our information technology (computer) networks. Among other things, we sell our products on websites that we operate. These networks, similar to computer networks in many businesses, may be vulnerable to service interruptions or malfunctions, including those related to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security threats. As demonstrated by the recent hacking of consumer information affecting Target stores, successful hacking of our operations could result in adverse publicity and significant potential liability to us. In addition to the adverse effects on our business in general of an interruption in the operation of our computer networks, a user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information of Steiner or our customers or cause disruptions to, or malfunctions in, our operations. Accordingly, among other things, we may be required, from time to time, to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of service interruptions and these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches and we may also be liable to customers or other third parties if their information is accessed by hackers or other unauthorized third parties. In addition, potential disruptions and denial-of-service attacks could negatively affect costs, customer demand and pricing for our products and services. Additionally, the operation and maintenance of these networks is, in some cases, dependent on third party technologies, systems and services providers for which there is no certainty of uninterrupted availability. While we continue to invest in security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot completely insulate us from disruptions that could result in adverse effects on our operations and profitability. Changes in Privacy Law Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Market Our Services and Products Effectively Our ability to market our services and products effectively is an important component of our business. We rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing, and direct mail. Any further restrictions under laws such as the Telemarketing Sales Rule, CANSPAM Act, and various United States state laws or new federal laws regarding marketing and solicitation, or international data protection laws that govern these activities, could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of telemarketing, email, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. If this were to occur, we may be unable to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact our ability to effectively market and sell our services and products. 56 In addition, we collect information relating to our customers and the students at our schools for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data, such as, among other things, credit card information, is governed by privacy laws and regulations of the United States and other jurisdictions. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and, occasionally, may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our services and products and serve our customers. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us or, in some instances, non-compliance by third parties engaged by us, or a breach of security systems storing our data may result in fines, payment of damages or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. Anti-takeover Provisions Limit Shareholders' Ability to Affect a Change in Management or Control Our Articles of Association ("Articles") include certain provisions which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a future takeover or change in control of Steiner Leisure that shareholders may consider to be in their best interests. Among other things, our Articles provide for a classified board of directors serving staggered terms of three years, super majority voting requirements with respect to certain significant transactions and restrictions on certain transactions with holders of 15% or more of the voting shares of Steiner Leisure. We have an authorized class of 10,000,000 Preferred Shares that may be issued in one or more series by our board of directors (our "Board") without further action by the shareholders on such terms and with such rights, preferences and designations as our Board may determine. Furthermore, our equity plans and our officers' employment agreements provide certain rights to plan participants and those officers, respectively, in the event of a change in control of Steiner Leisure. In addition, certain of our cruise line and land-based spa agreements provide the other parties with rights of termination in the event of certain changes in control of Steiner Leisure. Our Share Price Has Fluctuated and Could Fluctuate Significantly Since our common shares have commenced being publicly traded, the market price of our shares has fluctuated over a wide range and may continue to do so in the future. The market price of our common shares could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including, among other things: ● termination or expiration of a significant agreement with a cruise line or other party, such as the December 2013 expiration of our agreement with Celebrity Cruises; ● general economic or market conditions, such as the economic slowdown experienced in recent years; ● the depth and liquidity of the trading market for our common shares; ● quarterly variations in our actual or anticipated operating results; ● changes in recommendations or estimates by analysts of our earnings or earnings in the cruise, travel, leisure and education industries; ● market conditions in the cruise, travel, leisure and education industries; ● announcements or activities by our competitors; and ● the market price of shares of our cruise line or land-based customers. Any such event could result in a material decline in the price of our common shares. 57 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 