Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us. Our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Sprint-Nextel Merger and the Spin-off of Embarq We may continue to face difficulties in integrating the businesses of Nextel, the acquired PCS Affiliates or Nextel Partners with ours. We continue to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the Nextel wireless network and other wireless technologies with ours, as well as the business practices, operations and support functions of the two companies. The challenges we are facing and/or may face in the future in connection with these integration efforts include the following: • integrating our CDMA and iDEN wireless networks, which operate on different technology platforms and use different spectrum bands, and developing wireless devices and other products and services that operate seamlessly on both technology platforms; • developing and deploying next generation wireless technologies; • combining and simplifying diverse product and service offerings, subscriber plans and sales and marketing approaches; • preserving subscriber, supplier and other important relationships; • consolidating and integrating duplicative facilities and operations, including back-office systems; and • addressing differences in business cultures, preserving employee morale and attracting and retaining key employees, including in connection with our headquarters consolidation in Kansas, while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service and meeting our operational and financial goals. The process of integrating the operations of Nextel, the seven acquired PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners with ours has caused, and may in the future cause, interruptions of, or loss of momentum in, our business and financial performance. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of the two companies’ operations has had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may also incur additional and unforeseen expenses in connection with the integration efforts. We are subject to exclusivity provisions and other restrictions under our arrangements with the remaining independent PCS Affiliates. Continued compliance with those restrictions may limit our ability to fully integrate the operations of Nextel and Nextel Partners in the geographic areas served by those PCS Affiliates, and we could incur significant costs to resolve issues related to the merger under these arrangements. The arrangements with the three independent PCS Affiliates restrict our and their ability to own, operate, build or manage specified wireless communication networks or to sell certain wireless services within specified geographic areas. One of these PCS Affiliates has litigation pending against us asserting that actions that we have taken or may take in the future in connection with our integration efforts are inconsistent with our obligations under our agreement with them, particularly with respect to the restrictions noted above. Continued compliance with those restrictions may limit our ability to fully integrate the operations of Nextel and Nextel Partners in the areas served by those PCS Affiliates. We could incur significant costs to resolve these issues. We are subject to restrictions on acquisitions involving our stock and other stock issuances and possibly other corporate opportunities in order to enable the spin-off of Embarq to qualify for tax-free treatment. The spin-off of Embarq cannot qualify for tax-free treatment if 50% or more (by vote or value) of our stock, or the stock of Embarq, is acquired or issued as part of a plan, or series of related transactions, that includes the spin-off. Because the Sprint-Nextel merger generally is treated as involving the acquisition of 49.9% of our stock (and the stock of Embarq) for purposes of this analysis, we are subject to restrictions on certain acquisitions using our stock and other issuances of our stock in order to enable the spin-off to qualify for tax-free treatment. 20 Table of Contents These restrictions apply to transactions occurring subsequent to the spin-off that are deemed to be part of a plan or series of transactions related to the Sprint-Nextel merger and the Embarq spin-off. Under applicable tax law, transactions occurring within two years of the spin-off are presumed to be pursuant to such a plan unless we can establish the contrary. At this time, it is not possible to determine how long these restrictions will apply, or whether they will have a material impact on us. If the spin-off of Embarq does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, tax could be imposed on both our shareholders and us. We received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, that the spin-off of Embarq qualifies for tax-free treatment under Code Sections 355 and 361. In addition, we obtained opinions of counsel from each of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP that the spin-off so qualifies. The IRS ruling and the opinions rely on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of Embarq’s and our business. The IRS private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution qualifies for tax-free treatment. The IRS could determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinions that are not covered by the IRS private letter ruling. If the distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, it will be treated as a taxable distribution to our shareholders in an amount equal to the fair market value of Embarq’s equity securities (i.e., Embarq’s common stock issued to our common shareholders) received by them. In addition, we would be required to recognize gain in an amount up to the fair market value of the Embarq equity securities that we distributed on the distribution date plus the fair market value of the senior notes of Embarq received by us. Furthermore, subsequent events, some of which are not in our control, could cause us to recognize gain on the distribution. For example, even minimal acquisitions of our equity securities or Embarq’s equity securities that are deemed to be part of a plan or a series of related transactions that include the distribution and the Sprint-Nextel merger could cause us to recognize gain on the distribution. Risks Related to our Business and Operations We face intense competition that may reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. Our operating segments face intense competition. Our ability to compete effectively depends on, among other things, the factors discussed below. If we are not able to attract and retain customers, our financial performance could be impaired. Our ability to compete successfully for new customers and to retain our existing customers will depend on: • our marketing and sales, arrangements with MVNOs, service delivery and customer care activities, and our credit and collection policies; • our ability to anticipate and develop new or enhanced products and services that are attractive to existing or potential customers; and • our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services that may be introduced by our competitors, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions, and discount pricing and other strategies that may be implemented by our competitors. A key element in the economic success of communications carriers is the ability to retain customers as measured by the rate of subscriber churn. Our ability to retain customers and reduce our rate of churn is affected 21 Table of Contents by a number of factors including, with respect to our wireless business, the actual or perceived quality and coverage of our network, the attractiveness of our handsets and service offerings and the customer care experience, including new account set up and billing. Our ability to retain customers also is affected by competitive pricing pressures and the quality of our customer service. Our recent efforts to reduce churn have not been successful, and our high rate of churn has impaired our ability to maintain the level of revenues generated in prior periods, and caused a deterioration in the operating margins of, our wireless operations and our operations as a whole, the effects of which will continue if we do not reduce our rate of churn. Our ability to retain customers may also be negatively affected by industry trends related to customer contracts. We and our competitors no longer require customers to renew their contracts when making changes to their pricing plans and have announced that we will be moving to prorated early termination fees. These changes could negatively affect our ability to retain customers and could lead to an increase in our churn rates if we are not successful in creating a competitive product and service mix. As the wireless market matures, we must increasingly seek to attract customers from competitors and face increased credit risk from first time wireless subscribers. We and our competitors increasingly must seek to attract a greater proportion of new customers from each other’s existing customer bases rather than from first time purchasers of wireless services. Recently, we have not been able to attract customers at the same rate as our competitors and have had a net loss of subscribers during 2007. In addition, the higher market penetration also means that customers purchasing wireless services for the first time, on average, have a lower credit rating than existing wireless users, and the number of these customers we are willing to accept is dependent on our credit policies, which change from time-to-time. To the extent we cannot compete effectively for new customers, our revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected. Competition and technological changes in the market for wireless services could negatively affect our average revenue per user, subscriber churn, our ability to attract new subscribers and operating costs, which would adversely affect our revenues, growth and profitability. We compete with several other wireless service providers in each of the markets in which we provide wireless services. As competition among wireless communications providers has increased, we have created pricing plans that have resulted in declining average revenue per minute of use for voice services, a trend which we expect will continue. Competition in pricing and service and product offerings may also adversely impact customer retention, which would adversely affect our results of operations. The wireless communications industry is experiencing significant technological change, including improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology and the deployment of unlicensed spectrum devices. This change causes uncertainty about future subscriber demand for our wireless services and the prices that we will be able to charge for these services. Rapid change in technology may lead to the development of wireless communications technologies or alternative services that are superior to our technologies or services or that consumers prefer over ours. If we are unable to meet future advances in competing technologies on a timely basis, or at an acceptable cost, we may not be able to compete effectively and could lose customers to our competitors. Mergers or other business combinations involving our competitors and new entrants, including MVNOs, beginning to offer wireless services may also continue to increase competition. These wireless operators may be able to offer subscribers network features or products and services not offered by us, coverage in areas not served by either of our wireless networks or pricing plans that are lower than those offered by us, all of which would negatively affect our average revenue per user, subscriber churn, ability to attract new subscribers, and operating costs. For example, AT&T, Verizon and T-Mobile now offer competitively-priced wireless services packaged with local and long distance voice and high-speed Internet services, and flat rate voice and data plans, and our Boost Mobile-branded services compete with a number of regional carriers, including Metro PCS and Leap Wireless, which offer competitively-priced calling plans that include unlimited local calling. In addition, we may lose subscribers of our higher priced plans to our Boost Mobile offerings. 22 Table of Contents One of the primary differentiating features of our Nextel-branded service is the two-way walkie-talkie service available on our iDEN network. A number of wireless equipment vendors, including Motorola, which supplies equipment for our Nextel-branded service, have begun to offer wireless equipment that is capable of providing walkie-talkie services that are designed to compete with our walkie-talkie services. Several of our competitors have introduced handsets that are capable of providing walkie-talkie services. If these competitors’ services are perceived to be or become, or if any such services introduced in the future are, comparable to our Nextel-branded walkie-talkie services, a key competitive advantage of our Nextel service would be reduced, which in turn could adversely affect our business. Failure to improve wireless subscriber service and failure to continue to enhance the quality and features of our wireless networks and meet capacity requirements of our subscriber base could impair our financial performance and adversely affect our results of operations. We must continually make investments and incur costs in order to improve our wireless subscriber service and remain competitive. In connection with our continuing enhancement of the quality of our wireless networks and related services, we: • maintain and expand the capacity and coverage of our networks; • secure sufficient transmitter and receiver sites and obtain zoning and construction approvals or permits at appropriate locations; • obtain adequate quantities of system infrastructure equipment and handsets, and related accessories to meet subscriber demand; and • obtain additional spectrum in some or all of our markets, if and when necessary. Network enhancements may not occur as scheduled or at the cost that we have estimated. Delays or failure to add network capacity, failure to maintain roaming agreements or increased costs of adding capacity, could limit our ability to satisfy our wireless subscribers, resulting in decreased revenues. Even if we continuously upgrade our wireless networks, there can be no assurance that existing subscribers will not prefer features of our competitors and switch wireless providers. Consolidation and competition in the wholesale market for wireline services could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our Wireline segment competes with AT&T, Verizon, Qwest Communications, Level 3 Communications, and cable operators, as well as a host of smaller competitors, in the provision of wireline services. Some of these companies have built high-capacity, IP-based fiber-optic networks capable of supporting large amounts of voice and data traffic. These companies claim certain cost structure advantages which, among other factors, may allow them to maintain profitability while offering services at a price below that which we can offer profitably. Increased competition and the significant increase in capacity resulting from new technologies and networks may drive already low prices down further. AT&T and Verizon, as a result of their acquisitions, continue to be our two largest competitors in the domestic long distance communications market. We and other long distance carriers depend heavily on local access facilities obtained from ILECs to serve our long distance customers, and payments to ILECs for these facilities are a significant cost of service for our Wireline segment. The long distance operations of AT&T and Verizon have cost and operational advantages with respect to these access facilities because those carriers serve significant geographic areas, including many large urban areas, as the incumbent local carrier. Failure to complete development, testing and deployment of new technology that supports new services could affect our ability to compete in the industry. In addition, the technology we use may place us at a competitive disadvantage. We develop, test and deploy various new technologies and support systems intended to enhance our competitiveness by both supporting new services and features and reducing the costs associated with providing 23 Table of Contents those services. Successful development and implementation of technology upgrades depend, in part, on the willingness of third parties to develop new applications in a timely manner. We may not successfully complete the development and rollout of new technology and related features or services in a timely manner, and they may not be widely accepted by our customers or may not be profitable, in which case we could not recover our investment in the technology. Deployment of technology supporting new service offerings may also adversely affect the performance or reliability of our networks with respect to both the new and existing services. Any resulting customer dissatisfaction could affect our ability to retain customers and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and growth prospects. Our wireless networks provide services utilizing CDMA and iDEN technologies. Wireless subscribers served by these two technologies represent a smaller portion of global wireless subscribers than the subscribers served by wireless networks that utilize GSM technology. As a result, our costs with respect to both CDMA and iDEN network equipment and handsets may continue to be higher than the comparable costs incurred by our competitors who use GSM technology, which places us at a competitive disadvantage. The blurring of the traditional dividing lines between long distance, local, wireless, video and Internet services contribute to increased competition. The traditional dividing lines between long distance, local, wireless, video and Internet services are increasingly becoming blurred. Through mergers, joint ventures and various service expansion strategies, major providers are striving to provide integrated services in many of the markets we serve. This trend is also reflected in changes in the regulatory environment that have encouraged competition and the offering of integrated services. We expect competition to intensify across all of our business segments as a result of the entrance of new competitors or the expansion of services offered by existing competitors, and the rapid development of new technologies, products and services. We cannot predict which of many possible future technologies, products, or services will be important to maintain our competitive position or what expenditures we will be required to make in order to develop and provide these technologies, products or services. To the extent we do not keep pace with technological advances or fail to timely respond to changes in the competitive environment affecting our industry, we could lose market share or experience a decline in revenue, cash flows and net income. As a result of the financial strength and benefits of scale enjoyed by some of our competitors, they may be able to offer services at lower prices than we can, thereby adversely affecting our revenues, growth and profitability. If we are unable to meet our future capital needs relating to investment in our networks and other obligations, it may be necessary for us to curtail, delay or abandon our business growth plans. If we incur significant additional indebtedness to fund our plans or experience a significant decline in financial performance, our borrowing costs could increase or our ability to raise additional capital could be limited. A recent downgrade in our rating could cause us to incur higher interest costs and negatively impact our access to the capital markets. We likely will require additional capital to make the capital expenditures necessary to implement our business plans, including our fourth generation network, to support future growth of our wireless business and to satisfy our debt service requirements. In addition, we may incur additional debt in the future for a variety of reasons, including future acquisitions. We may not be able to arrange additional financing to fund our requirements on terms acceptable to us. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our ratings, financial performance, general economic conditions and prevailing market conditions. Some of these factors are beyond our control. One debt rating agency recently downgraded our rating to below investment grade, and this may cause us to incur higher interest costs and our access to the capital markets could be negatively impacted. Our access to the commercial paper market may not be available on terms attractive to us, or at all. Failure to obtain suitable financing when needed could, among other things, result in our inability to continue to expand our businesses and meet competitive challenges. If we incur significant additional indebtedness, or if we do not continue to generate sufficient cash from our operations, our ratings could be adversely affected, which would likely increase our future borrowing costs and could affect our ability to access capital. 24 Table of Contents Our credit facilities require that we maintain a ratio of total indebtedness to trailing four quarters earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and other non-cash gains or losses, such as goodwill impairment charges, of no more than 3.5 to 1.0, which as of December 31, 2007, was 2.5 to 1.0. If we do not continue to satisfy this ratio, either because we do not generate sufficient cash from operations or otherwise, we will be in default under our credit facilities, which could trigger defaults under our other debt obligations, which in turn could result in the maturities of certain debt obligations being accelerated. If we are unable to improve our results of operations, we face the possibility of additional charges against earnings for impairments of goodwill and other assets. In connection with our annual assessment for impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets, we reduced the goodwill and consolidated shareholders’ equity by $29.7 billion in the fourth quarter 2007. As part of this annual assessment, we updated the forecasted cash flows of our wireless reporting unit. If we are unable to improve our results of operations and cash flows, or other indicators of impairment exist, such as a sustained significant decline in our share price and market capitalization, we may incur another, material charge against earnings relating to our remaining goodwill. In addition, we review our wireless and wireline long lived assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If we are unable to improve our results of operations and cash flows, such a review could lead to a material impairment charge in our consolidated financial statements. We have entered into outsourcing agreements related to certain business operations. Any difficulties experienced in these arrangements could result in additional expense, loss of customers and revenue, interruption of our services or a delay in the roll-out of new technology. We have entered into outsourcing agreements for the development and maintenance of certain software systems necessary for the operation of our business. We have also entered into agreements with third parties to provide customer service and related support to our wireless subscribers and outsourced many aspects of our customer care and billing functions to third parties. We also have entered into an agreement whereby a third party has leased or operates a significant number of our communications towers, and we sublease space on these towers. As a result, we must rely on third parties to perform certain of our operations and, in certain circumstances, interface with our customers. If these third parties are unable to perform to our requirements, we would have to pursue alternative strategies to provide these services and that could result in delays, interruptions, additional expenses and loss of customers. The intellectual property rights utilized by us and our suppliers and service providers may infringe on intellectual property rights owned by others. Some of our products and services use intellectual property that we own. We also purchase products from suppliers, including handset device suppliers, and outsource services to service providers, including billing and customer care functions, that incorporate or utilize intellectual property. We and some of our suppliers and service providers have received, and may receive in the future, assertions and claims from third parties that the products or software utilized by us or our suppliers and service providers infringe on the patents or other intellectual property rights of these third parties. These claims could require us or an infringing supplier or service provider to cease certain activities or to cease selling the relevant products and services. Such claims and assertions also could subject us to costly litigation and significant liabilities for damages or royalty payments, or require us to cease certain activities or to cease selling certain products and services. All suppliers of our CDMA handsets license intellectual property from QUALCOMM. Some of this QUALCOMM intellectual property has been found to infringe on certain patents owned by Broadcom Corporation. The International Trade Commission has found that QUALCOMM infringes certain of Broadcom’s intellectual property, and a United States district court recently enjoined QUALCOMM from further infringement of other patents and from certain other activities. Although that injunction is effective immediately, the ruling contains a 25 Table of Contents sunset provision for certain QUALCOMM products, which expires on January 31, 2009, that provides time for QUALCOMM to modify its infringing products to avoid infringement. If QUALCOMM does not modify its products so as to avoid infringement of Broadcom’s patents at issue by January 31, 2009, QUALCOMM will be unable to sell or support those products that were found to infringe and we may be unable to use CDMA handsets that are the subject of these claims, including handsets that utilize QUALCOMM’s QChat technology, which we intend to use to provide walkie-talkie services on our CDMA network. We are currently unable to use other QUALCOMM products found to be infringing that are not subject to the sunset provision. If Motorola is unable or unwilling to provide us with equipment and handsets in support of our iDEN-based services, as well as anticipated handset and infrastructure improvements for those services, our operations will be adversely affected. Motorola is our sole source for most of the equipment that supports the iDEN network and for all of the handsets we offer under the Nextel brand except primarily for BlackBerry devices. Although our handset supply agreement with Motorola is structured to provide competitively- priced handsets, the cost of iDEN handsets is generally higher than handsets that do not incorporate a similar multi-function capability. This difference may make it more difficult or costly for us to offer handsets at prices that are attractive to potential customers. In addition, the higher cost of iDEN handsets requires us to absorb a larger part of the cost of offering handsets to new and existing customers. These increased costs and handset subsidy expenses may reduce our growth and profitability. Also, we must rely on Motorola to develop handsets and equipment capable of supporting the features and services we offer to subscribers of services on our iDEN network, including the dual-mode handsets. A decision by Motorola to discontinue manufacturing, supporting or enhancing our iDEN-based infrastructure and handsets would have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, because iDEN technology is not as widely adopted and has fewer subscribers than other wireless technologies and because we expect that over time more of our customers will utilize service offered on our CDMA network, it is less likely that manufacturers other than Motorola will be willing to make the significant financial commitment required to license, develop and manufacture iDEN infrastructure equipment and handsets. Further, our ability to timely and efficiently implement the spectrum reconfiguration plan in connection with the FCC’s Report and Order is dependent, in part, on Motorola. The reconfiguration process contemplated by the FCC’s Report and Order may adversely affect our business and operations, which could adversely affect our future growth and operating results. In order to accomplish the reconfiguration of the 800 MHz spectrum band that is contemplated by the Report and Order, in most cases we will need to cease our use of a portion of the 800 MHz spectrum on our iDEN network in a particular market before we are able to commence use of replacement 800 MHz spectrum in that market. To mitigate the temporary loss of the use of this spectrum, in many markets we will need to construct additional transmitter and receiver sites or acquire additional spectrum in the 800 MHz or 900 MHz bands. This spectrum may not be available to us on acceptable terms. In markets where we are unable to construct additional sites or acquire additional spectrum as needed, the decrease in capacity may adversely affect the performance of our iDEN network, require us to curtail subscriber additions in those markets until the capacity limitation can be alleviated, or a combination of the two, particularly if the replacement of 800 MHz spectrum is not available for a significant period of time. The FCC recently ordered that we vacate by June 2008 a portion of the 800 MHz spectrum that we currently use, even if the applicable public safety licensee is not ready to relocate to the vacated spectrum. Any delay by public safety licensees in relocating to the vacated spectrum, absent the grant of a waiver by the FCC, would delay when we could commence use of the replacement 800 MHz spectrum. Degradation in network performance in any market would likely result in higher subscriber churn in that market, the effect of which could be exacerbated if we are forced to curtail subscriber additions in that market. A resulting loss of a significant number of subscribers could adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that the reconfiguration process has contributed adversely to the capacity and performance of our iDEN network, particularly in some of our more capacity constrained markets. In addition, the Report and Order gives the FCC the authority to suspend or otherwise limit our use of the 1.9 GHz spectrum that we received under the Report and Order if we do not comply with our obligations under the Report and Order. 26 Table of Contents Government regulation could adversely affect our prospects and results of operations; the FCC and state regulatory commissions may adopt new regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect our business prospects or results of operations. The FCC and other federal, state and local governmental authorities have jurisdiction over our business and could adopt regulations or take other actions that would adversely affect our business prospects or results of operations. The licensing, construction, operation, sale and interconnection arrangements of wireless telecommunications systems are regulated by the FCC and, depending on the jurisdiction, state and local regulatory agencies. In particular, the FCC imposes significant regulation on licensees of wireless spectrum with respect to how radio spectrum is used by licensees, the nature of the services that licensees may offer and how such services may be offered, and resolution of issues of interference between spectrum bands. The FCC grants wireless licenses for terms of generally ten years that are subject to renewal and revocation. There is no guarantee that our licenses will be renewed. Failure to comply with FCC requirements in a given license area could result in revocation of the license for that license area. Depending upon their outcome, the FCC’s proceedings regarding regulation of special access rates could affect the rates paid by our Wireless and Wireline segments for special access services in the future. Similarly, depending on their outcome, the FCC’s proceedings on the regulatory classification of VoIP services could affect the intercarrier compensation rates and the level of USF contributions paid by us. Various states are considering regulations over terms and conditions of service, including such things as certain billing practices and consumer-related issues that may not be pre-empted by federal law. If imposed, these regulations could make it more difficult and expensive to implement national sales and marketing programs and could increase the costs of our wireless operations. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions. Major equipment failures, natural disasters, including severe weather, terrorist acts, cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology security that affect our wireline and wireless networks, including transport facilities, communications switches, routers, microwave links, cell sites or other equipment or third-party owned local and long-distance networks on which we rely, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. These events could disrupt our operations, require significant resources, result in a loss of customers or impair our ability to attract new customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Concerns about health risks associated with wireless equipment may reduce the demand for our services. Portable communications devices have been alleged to pose health risks, including cancer, due to radio frequency emissions from these devices. Purported class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against numerous wireless carriers, including us, seeking not only damages but also remedies that could increase our cost of doing business. We cannot be sure of the outcome of those cases or that our business and financial condition will not be adversely affected by litigation of this nature or public perception about health risks. The actual or perceived risk of mobile communications devices could adversely affect us through a reduction in subscribers, reduced network usage per subscriber or reduced financing available to the mobile communications industry. Further research and studies are ongoing, and we cannot be sure that additional studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency emissions and health concerns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments On May 25, 2007, we received a comment letter from the Staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC with respect to its review of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and our Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. The Staff’s letter included a comment requesting amendment of our 2006 Form 10-K and first quarter 2007 Form 10-Q to provide more robust discussion of the trend of significant net declines in our iDEN subscriber base, on a consecutive quarter-over-quarter basis during 2006, continuing through the first quarter of 2007. In response to this comment, we have added additional disclosure to the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section in this Form 10-K, in a manner consistent with disclosures presented in our second and third quarter 2007 Forms 10-Q. 