Item 1A. RISK FACTORS THE COMPANY OPERATES IN A CHANGING ENVIRONMENT THAT INVOLVES NUMEROUS KNOWN AND UNKNOWN RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS OPERATIONS. THE FOLLOWING HIGHLIGHTS SOME OF THE FACTORS THAT HAVE AFFECTED, AND/OR IN THE FUTURE COULD AFFECT, ITS OPERATIONS. Risks Relating to the BioBalance Business BIOBALANCE IS A DEVELOPMENT STAGE COMPANY, HAS GENERATED NO REVENUES TO DATE AND HAS A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY UPON WHICH IT MAY BE EVALUATED. BioBalance was incorporated in May 2001, has generated no revenues from operations, and has no meaningful assets other than its intellectual property rights and $5,522,088 in available cash at December 31, 2005. BioBalance faces all of the risks inherent in a new business and those risks specifically inherent in the business of developing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals for, manufacturing, commercializing and selling a new prescription drug product, with all of the unforeseen costs, expenses, problems, and difficulties to which such ventures are subject. We cannot assure you that BioBalance will be able to generate revenues or profits from operation of its business or that BioBalance will be able to generate or sustain profitability in the future. 16 FAILURE TO SECURE ADDITIONAL FINANCING WOULD RESULT IN IMPAIRED GROWTH AND INABILITY TO OPERATE. BioBalance will be required to expend substantial amounts of working capital in order to develop, test, obtain the requisite regulatory approvals, manufacture and market its proposed product and establish the necessary relationships to implement its business plan. At December 31, 2005, the Company had available cash in the amount of $5,522,088. For the year ended December 31, 2005, BioBalance's operations where funded entirely from the net proceeds from the sale of equity securities and the proceeds from the sale of the New Jersey home healthcare business in May 2005. For the year ending December 31, 2006 BioBalance anticipates that its business will be entirely dependent on the existing cash, income from the healthcare operations and either on the proceeds from the sale of the remaining home healthcare business and/or the sale of additional securities. We expect existing cash and the income from the healthcare operations will be sufficient to sustain our operations for the next twelve months. If BioBalance fails to obtain additional financing, BioBalance's clinical and regulatory programs would need to be scaled back or cancelled. BioBalance has no firm agreements or arrangements with respect to any such financing and we cannot assure you that any needed funds will be available to BioBalance on acceptable terms or at all. The inability to obtain sufficient funding of BioBalance's operations in the immediate future could cause BioBalance to curtail or cease its operations. THE SALE OF OUR NEW YORK HOME HEALTHCARE BUSINESS IS NOT ASSURED. We are currently negotiating to sell our remaining home healthcare operations which are located in New York in whole or in part. The agreement will be subject to a number of conditions, including, but not limited to, shareholder and regulatory approval. Even if shareholder approval and regulatory approval of the proposed sale are obtained, there can be no assurance that litigation will not be commenced by a shareholder or other third party seeking to prevent the sale of the remaining home healthcare business. Until the time, if ever, that our New York home healthcare business is sold, we expect to continue to operate the remaining home healthcare business in a normal fashion. IF WE DIVEST OUR HOME HEALTHCARE BUSINESS, WE WILL BE A PURELY DEVELOPMENT STAGE COMPANY, HAVING GENERATED NO REVENUES TO DATE AND HAVING MINIMAL OPERATING HISTORY UPON WHICH WE MAY BE EVALUATED. To date, the only revenues that have been generated by the Company have been produced by the home healthcare business. BioBalance has generated no revenues from operations or meaningful assets, other than its intellectual property rights and its existing cash. In March 2005 we sold the New Jersey home healthcare business and if we sell our remaining home healthcare business which is located in New York, our only remaining operating business will be BioBalance, which faces all of the risks inherent in a new business and those risks specifically inherent in the business of developing, manufacturing, introducing and selling a new drug or new product to the market with all of the unforeseen costs, expenses, problems, and difficulties to which such ventures are subject. We cannot assure you that BioBalance will be able to generate revenues or profits from operation of its business. 17 THE LOSS OF KEY EXECUTIVES OR CONSULTANTS OR THE FAILURE TO HIRE QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES WOULD DAMAGE OUR BUSINESS. Because of the highly technical nature of our BioBalance business, we depend greatly on attracting and retaining experienced management and highly qualified and trained scientific personnel. Our future success will depend on the continued services of our key scientific and management personnel with whom we have entered into various agreements. The management team of Dennis O'Donnell as the Company's and BioBalance's President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Robert Hoerr as VP of Medical and Regulatory Affairs and Dr. Eileen Bostwick as VP of Research and Development. We are also utilizing the services of Dr. Harold Jacob, who serves on our Medical Advisory Board but have not finalized a contract with him. We compete intensely for these professionals with other companies in our industry. If we cannot retain or hire and effectively integrate a sufficient number of qualified scientists and experienced professionals, such inability would have a material adverse effect on our capacity to grow our business and develop our products through the clinical trial process. We do not presently maintain key person insurance for any of BioBalance's key personnel. WE COULD BE REQUIRED TO PAY FUNDS TO SATISFY INDEMNITY AND OTHER POSSIBLE CLAIMS BY FORMER EMPLOYEES AND CONSULTANTS. In November 2003, a former director of the Company who was an officer of BioBalance resigned and a consulting agreement with a consultant to BioBalance was suspended, and subsequently terminated, as a result of matters related to certain claims made against the former director and the consultant by the U.S. Attorney's office relating to an alleged attempt by these two individuals to manipulate the Company's Common Stock. The Company is obligated, under certain circumstances, to indemnify the former director against liability and to pay for his costs of defending himself from certain legal actions that arose from his activities as a director or officer of the Company. To date, the Company's insurance carrier has advanced funds on behalf of the Company to the former director to cover the expenses of his defense to the government action. Unless it is legally determined that the former director is not entitled to indemnification, the Company will be required to reimburse the insurance carrier for $250,000 of the amount it advanced on behalf of the former director. The Company has accrued the $250,000 on its financial statements as of December 31, 2005. BIOBALANCE'S PRODUCTS ARE IN DEVELOPMENT AND MAY NOT SATISFY REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS OR BECOME COMMERCIALLY VIABLE. The products that we are currently developing will require additional development, testing, and investment in order to market it as a prescription drug. We cannot be sure that our product research and development efforts will be successful, that candidates will enter clinical studies as anticipated, that we will satisfy Good Laboratory Procedures ("GLP"), medical food or prescription drug requirements or that any required regulatory approvals will be expeditiously applied for or obtained, or that any products, if introduced, will be commercially successful. We have conducted anecdotal and pre-clinical trials and are conducting an IBS medical food clinical trial for our initial product and have established GRAS (Generally Recognized As Safe) status to date. The results of these pre-clinical and anecdotal trials on products under development are not necessarily predictive of results that will be obtained from large scale clinical testing. We cannot be sure that clinical trials of the products under development will demonstrate the safety and efficacy of such products or will result in a marketable product. In addition, the administration alone or in combination with drugs of any product developed by BioBalance may produce undesirable side effects in humans. The failure to demonstrate adequately the safety and efficacy of a therapeutic drug product under development could delay or prevent regulatory approval, where required, and delay or prevent commercial sale of the product, any of which could have a material adverse effect on BioBalance. We may encounter difficulties in manufacturing, process development and formulation activities that could result in delays in clinical trials, regulatory submissions, regulatory approvals and commercialization of our product, or cause negative financial and competitive consequences. We cannot assure you that PROBACTRIX or any other product will be successfully developed, be developed on a timely basis or prove to be more effective than competing products based on existing or newly developed technologies. The inability to successfully complete development, or a determination by us, for financial or other reasons, not to undertake to complete development of PROBACTRIX or any other product, particularly in instances in which we have made significant capital expenditures, could have a material adverse effect on us. 18 POTENTIAL FAILURE OF PLANNED CLINICAL TRIALS TO PRODUCE STATISTICALLY SIGNIFICANT DATA COULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY MARKET OUR PRODUCTS. There still is substantial risk that the studies that we are planning will not yield sufficient statistically significant data to make strong marketing claims. This could adversely affect marketing efforts to the medical community, which is traditionally resistant to new treatments unless supported by statistically significant data before recommending it to patients. This could severely limit our ability to successfully market our product. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON NEW PRODUCTS AND CONTINUED INNOVATION. The pharmaceutical industry in general, including the market for GI treatments, is characterized by rapid innovation and advances. These advances result in frequent product introductions and short product life cycles, requiring a high level of expenditures for research and development and the timely introduction of new products. We believe our ability to grow and succeed is partially dependent upon our ability to introduce new and innovative products into such markets. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our plans to introduce additional products to the market or expand our current label indications. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS MAY NOT PROTECT OUR BUSINESS. We have adopted a comprehensive patent policy on current and future products. We use a combination of patents, trademarks and trade secrets to protect our proprietary position on PROBACTRIX. We cannot assure you that our pending or future patent and trademark registration applications will result in issued patents and registered trademarks, or that, if issued, our applications will be upheld if challenged. Further, even if granted, we cannot assure you that these patents and trademarks will provide us with any protection from competitors or, that if they do provide any meaningful level of protection, that we will have the financial resources necessary to enforce our patent and trademark rights. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop technologies similar to those covered by our pending patents and trade secrets, or design around the pending patents. If others are able to design around our patents, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Further, we will have very limited, if any, protection of our proprietary rights in those jurisdictions where we have not affected any filings or where we fail to obtain protection through our filings. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert intellectual property infringement claims against us in the future with respect to current or future products. We are responsible for defending against charges of infringement of third party intellectual property rights by our actions and products and such assertion may require us to refrain from the sale of our products, enter into royalty arrangements or undertake costly litigation. Further, challenges may be instituted by third parties as to the validity, enforceability and infringement of our patents. Our adherence to industry standards with respect to our product may limit our opportunities to provide proprietary features which may be protected. In addition, the laws of various countries in which our product may be sold may not protect our product and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. 19 THE VALIDITY OF PATENTS COVERING PHARMACEUTICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGICAL INVENTIONS AND THE SCOPE OF CLAIMS MADE UNDER SUCH PATENTS IS UNCERTAIN; FAILURE TO SECURE NECESSARY PATENTS COULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO PRODUCE AND MARKET OUR PRODUCTS. There is no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology patents. In addition, patents may have been granted, or may be granted, to others covering products or processes we need for developing our products. If our products or processes infringe upon the patents, or otherwise impermissibly utilize the intellectual property of others, we might be unable to develop, manufacture, or sell our products. In such event, we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. FAILURE TO DEVELOP OR CONTRACT FOR AN ADEQUATE SALES AND MARKETING ORGANIZATION OR PARTNER WITH A LARGER PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY COULD RESULT IN A LACK OF FUTURE REVENUES. To market any of our products directly, we would have to develop a substantial marketing and sales force. Alternatively, we may, for certain products, attempt to obtain the assistance of larger pharmaceutical companies with established distributions systems and direct sales forces. We do not know if we will be able to enter into agreements with other companies to assist in the marketing and sales of our products. WE OWN NO MANUFACTURING FACILITIES AND WILL BE DEPENDENT ON THIRD PARTIES TO MAKE OUR PRODUCT. We own no manufacturing facilities or equipment, and employ no manufacturing personnel. We expect to use third parties to manufacture certain of our products on a contract basis. We may not be able to obtain contract-manufacturing services on reasonable terms or at all. If we are not able to contract manufacturing services, we will not be able to make our products. WE WILL BE REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICES. The manufacture of our proposed products will be subject to current Good Manufacturing Practices ("GMP") prescribed by the FDA in the United States. We cannot give assurance that we or any entity manufacturing products on our behalf will be able to comply with GMP or satisfy certain regulatory inspections in connection with the manufacture of our proposed products. Failure or delay by any manufacturer of our products to comply with GMP or similar regulations or satisfy regulatory inspections would have a material adverse effect on us. 20 POTENTIAL SIDE EFFECTS OF OUR PRODUCT COULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY MARKET OUR PRODUCTS. Although no side effects of our products have been reported, it is possible that any time during clinical trials or patient usage, side effects may be encountered. If they are common enough or significant enough, this could result in our products being withdrawn from the market or liability claims being asserted against us. OUR PRODUCTS MAY NOT BE ACCEPTED BY PHYSICIANS, PATIENTS OR THIRD PARTY PAYERS. Patients, doctors and third-party payers must accept our products as medically useful and cost-effective for us to be successful. Doctors and patients are very important constituents because they directly make all medical decisions. Third party payers are also very important because they pay for a major portion of all medical care expenses. Third party payers consist of health maintenance organizations ("HMOs"), health insurers, managed care providers, Medicare and Medicaid, and their equivalent organizations in jurisdictions outside the U.S. In order to achieve our sales targets in the jurisdictions in which we intend to sell our products, we must educate patients, doctors and third-party payers on the benefits of our products. We cannot assure you that patients, doctors or third-party payers will accept our products, even if approved for marketing, on a timely basis. GOVERNMENT AND PRIVATE INSURANCE PLANS MAY NOT PAY FOR OUR PRODUCTS. The success of our products in the United States and other significant markets will depend, in part, upon the extent to which a consumer will be able to obtain reimbursement for the cost of such product from governmental authorities, third-party payers and other organizations. We cannot determine in advance the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutic products. Even if a product is approved for marketing, we cannot be sure that adequate reimbursement will be available. Also, future legislation or regulation, or related announcements or developments, concerning the healthcare industry or third party or governmental coverage and reimbursement may adversely affect our business. In particular, legislation or regulation limiting consumers' reimbursement rights could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. WE MAY LOSE ANY TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANTAGE BECAUSE PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH TECHNOLOGIES CHANGE RAPIDLY. The pharmaceutical research field is characterized by rapid technological progress and intense competition. As a result, we may not realize the expected benefits of our business strategy. Businesses, academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public and private research organizations are conducting research to develop technologies that may compete with those of BioBalance. It is possible that competitors could acquire or develop technologies that would render our technology obsolete or noncompetitive. We cannot be certain that we will be able to access the same technologies at an acceptable price, or at all. 21 WE COULD BE FACED WITH POSSIBLE PRODUCT LIABILITY LOSSES AND ADVERSE PRODUCT PUBLICITY. BioBalance, like any other manufacturer of products that are designed to be ingested, faces an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims and negative publicity in the event that the use of its product results in injury. We face the risk that materials used in the manufacture of the final product may be contaminated with substances that may cause sickness or injury to persons who have used the products, or that sickness or injury to persons may occur if the product distributed by us is ingested in dosages, which exceed the dosage recommended on the product label. In the event that insurance coverage or contractual indemnification is not adequate, product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on us. The successful assertion or settlement of any uninsured claim, a significant number of insured claims, or a claim exceeding any future insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, we are highly dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety and quality of our product as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Thus, the mere publication of reports and negative publicity asserting that such products may be harmful could have a material adverse effect on us, regardless of whether such reports are scientifically supported, regardless of whether the harmful effects would be present at the dosages recommended for such products, and regardless of whether such adverse effects resulted from failure to consume the product as directed. INTENSE COMPETITION MAY RESULT IN OUR INABILITY TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT REVENUES TO OPERATE PROFITABLY. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. Numerous companies, many of which are significantly larger than us, which have greater financial, personnel, distribution and other resources than us and may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, will compete with us in the development, manufacture and marketing of probiotics for the treatment of IBS or other GI disorders. There can be no assurance that national or international companies will not seek to enter, or increase their presence in the industry. In addition, large nationally known companies (such as Novartis and GlaxoSmithKline) are in competition with us in this segment, since they have already spent millions of dollars to develop treatments for IBS or other GI disorders. Increased competition could have a material adverse effect on us, as our competitors may have far greater financial and other resources available to them and possess extensive manufacturing, distribution and marketing capabilities far greater than ours. RISKS RELATING TO THE HOME HEALTHCARE BUSINESS RECENT RULING REGARDING COMPANIONSHIP SERVICES EXEMPTION MAY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO PROVIDE HEALTHCARE SERVICES On July 22, 2004, the federal Second Circuit Court of Appeals issued a ruling concerning the Fair Labor Standards Act on the validity of the "companionship services" exemption from minimum wage and overtime payment requirements to paraprofessional field staff in New York State Home care providers have long relied on this exemption to provide compensation to home care aides and personal care workers with the expectation that there is no obligation for overtime pay. In September 2004, a request for a rehearing was submitted en banc for the full court. On January 13, 2005, the Court rejected the request for a rehearing on the issue. The implication of these changes for paying the overtime expense for the home care industry and the State will be challenges to ensuring patient continuity of care, if agencies can no longer afford to authorize overtime during an outgoing workforce shortage, and the inability of workers to secure the number of hours of work they desire, all of these factors may cause a higher cost per hour serviced thereby less adversely affecting profitability. 22 The issue was resubmitted and on March 16, 2006, the industry was notified that the Supreme Court granted a writ of certiorari, vacated the judgment and remanded the case to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals to reconsider its decision in light of the memorandum issued by the U.S. Department of Labor on December 1, 2005. In that memo, the DOL states that it considers its regulations allowing the companionship exemption to be used by third party employers to be "authoritative and legally binding". WE ARE INDIRECTLY DEPENDENT UPON REIMBURSEMENT BY THIRD-PARTY PAYERS; HEALTHCARE REFORM COULD REDUCE REVENUES. More than 40% of our revenues are paid by Certified Home Health Agencies and Long-Term Home Health Care Programs, as well as other clients who receive their payments from "third- party payers," such as private insurance companies, self-insured employers and HMOs. Our revenues and profitability, like those of other home healthcare companies, are affected by the continuing efforts of third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare by lowering reimbursement or payment rates, increasing case management review of services and negotiating reduced contract pricing. Because home care is generally less costly than hospital-based care, home nursing and home care providers have benefited from cost containment initiatives aimed at reducing the costs of medical care. However, as expenditures in the home healthcare market continue to grow, cost containment initiatives aimed at reducing the costs of delivering services at non-hospital sites are likely to increase. A significant reduction in coverage or payment rates of public or private third-party payers would reduce New York Health Care's revenues and profit margins. While we are not aware of any substantive changes in the Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement systems for home healthcare which are about to be implemented, revised budget plans of New York State or the federal government could result in limitation or reduction in the reimbursement of home care costs and in the imposition of limitations on the provision of services which will be reimbursed. Moreover, third party payers, particularly private insurance companies, may negotiate fee discounts and reimbursement caps for services we provide. SLOW PAYMENTS AND POSSIBLE BAD DEBTS MAY CAUSE WORKING CAPITAL SHORTAGES AND OPERATING LOSSES. We generally collect payments from our contractors within one to three months after services are rendered, but pay our obligations on a current basis. This timing delay may cause working capital shortages from time to time. We have a secured revolving credit facility, which may be available to cover these periodic shortages. Borrowings or other methods of financing may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be on terms acceptable to us. Although we have established a bad debt reserve for uncollectible accounts, any significant increase in bad debts would damage our profitability. PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE MAY BECOME INADEQUATE, UNAVAILABLE OR TOO COSTLY. The administration of home care and the provision of nursing services entail certain liability risks. We maintain professional liability insurance coverage with limits of $1,000,000 per claim and $3,000,000 annual aggregate, with an umbrella policy providing an additional $5,000,000 of coverage. Although we believe that the insurance we maintain is sufficient for present operations, professional liability insurance is increasingly expensive and sometimes difficult to obtain. A successful claim against us in excess of, or not covered by, our insurance could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could also adversely affect our reputation and home healthcare business. 23 CHANGES IN FEDERAL AND STATE REGULATION COULD INCREASE COSTS AND REDUCE REVENUES. Our home healthcare business is subject to substantial regulation at the state level and also under the federal Medicare and Medicaid laws. In particular, we are subject to state laws regulating home care, nursing services, health planning and professional ethics, as well as state and federal laws regarding fraud and abuse in government funded health programs. Changes in the law or new interpretations for existing laws can increase the relative costs of doing business and reduce the amount of reimbursement by government and private third-party payers. Although we have not experienced any difficulties to date complying with applicable laws, rules or regulations, our failure to obtain, renew or maintain any required regulatory approvals or licenses could have a material adverse effect on us and could prevent us from offering our existing services to patients or from further expansion. Pending legislation in the State of New York could substantially impact the conduct of our home healthcare business and potentially adversely affect the cost of operations and available reimbursement. Under the pending legislation in New York, certain reporting requirements, as well as caps on permissible administrative expenses, would be imposed. If the pending legislation becomes law in its current form, costs of operations of our home healthcare business in New York are likely to increase. INTENSE COMPETITION COULD RESULT IN LOSS OF CLIENTS, LOSS OF PERSONNEL, REDUCED REVENUES AND INABILITY TO OPERATE PROFITABLY. The home healthcare industry is marked by low entry costs and is highly fragmented and competitive. We compete for personnel with hospitals and nursing homes, and we also compete for both personnel and business with other companies that provide home healthcare services, most of which are large established companies with significantly greater resources, access to capital and greater name recognition than we have. Our principal business competitors include Premiere Health Services, National Home Health Care Corp., Patient Care, Inc., and Personal Touch Home Care Services, Inc. We also compete with many other small temporary medical staffing agencies. Competition for qualified paraprofessional personnel in the New York Metropolitan area is intense. We believe that, given the increasing level of demand for nursing services, significant additional competition can be expected to develop in the future. DEPENDENCE ON MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND REFERRAL SOURCES MAY RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL DECLINES IN REVENUES IF CUSTOMERS ARE LOST. The development and growth of our home care and nursing businesses depends to a significant extent on our ability to establish close working relationships with hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, physician groups, HMO's, governmental healthcare agencies and other healthcare providers. Many of our contractual arrangements with customers are renewable annually. Existing relationships may not be successfully maintained and additional relationships may not be successfully developed and maintained in existing and future markets. Our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 88.9% of gross revenues during the year ended December 31, 2005. One referral source, New York City Medicaid, was responsible for approximately 52.0% of our gross revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, referrals by these sources, as well as certain other key sources, would have a material adverse effect on results of operations of our home healthcare business. 24 RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK POSSIBLE VOLATILITY OF COMMON STOCK MAY RESULT IN LOSSES TO SHAREHOLDERS. The trading price of our Common Stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and there is a limited market for our Common Stock. Over the last 12 months, the price of our Common Stock has ranged from a high of $1.25 to a low of $0.51. The price of our Common Stock is likely to continue to be affected by various factors, including but not limited to the results of our development efforts of PROBACTRIX and other products, variations in quarterly results of operations, announcements of new contracts or services or acquisitions by us or our competitors, governmental regulatory action, general trends in the industry and other factors, such as extreme price and volume fluctuations which have been experienced by the securities markets from time to time in recent years. OUR DELISTING FROM NASDAQ DUE TO OUR FAILURE TO SATISFY NASDAQ LISTING STANDARDS AND OUR STOCK BEING SUBJECT TO THE "PENNY STOCK" RULES HAS RESULTED IN REDUCED LIQUIDITY AND LOWER STOCK PRICE. Our Common Stock was delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap market in April 2004 and was listed for trading in the OTC "pink sheets. As of September 22, 2005, our Common Stock has been listed for trading on the Nasdaq Bulletin Board which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange (such as the American or New York Stock Exchange) or an automated quotation system (such as the Nasdaq National or SmallCap Market). As a result, the liquidity of our Common Stock is impaired, not only in the number of shares which can be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, reduction in security analysts' and news media's coverage and lower prices for our Common Stock than might otherwise be attained. There is currently a very limited volume of trading in our Common Stock and on many days there is no trading activity at all in our Common Stock. Moreover, because of the limited volume of trading, our Common Stock is more likely to fluctuate due to broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, future securities offering by us, changes in the market's perception of our business, announcements made by us or our competitors and general industry conditions. Our Common Stock may not be accepted for a listing on an automated quotation system or securities exchange. In addition, our Common Stock is subject to the low-priced security or so-called "penny stock" rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities. For any transaction involving a penny stock, the rules require, among other things, the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule required by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stocks held in the customer's account. The regulations relating to penny stocks could limit the ability of broker dealers to sell our Common Stock and, thus, the ability of shareholders to sell their shares in the market. 25 FUTURE SALES OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND OUR ABILITY TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL. We have previously issued a substantial number of shares of Common Stock, which are eligible for resale under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, and which may become freely tradable. We have registered or agreed to register a substantial number of shares of Common Stock that are issuable upon the exercise of options and warrants or that were previously issued in private transactions. If holders of options or warrants choose to exercise their purchase rights and sell shares of Common Stock in the public market, or if holders of currently restricted shares choose to sell such shares in the public market under Rule 144 or otherwise, the prevailing market price for the Common Stock may decline. Future public sales of shares of Common Stock may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock or our future ability to raise capital by offering equity securities. ISSUANCE OF PREFERRED STOCK COULD REDUCE THE VALUE OF COMMON STOCK AND COULD HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECTS. We are authorized by our certificate of incorporation to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, on terms which may be fixed by our board of directors without further shareholder action. There are now no shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding. The terms of any new series of preferred stock, which may include priority claims to assets and dividends and special voting rights, could adversely affect the rights of holders of the Common Stock. The issuance of an additional series of preferred stock, depending upon the rights and preferences of such series, could make the possible takeover of our company or the removal of our management more difficult, discourage hostile bids for control of our company in which shareholders may receive premiums for their shares of Common Stock, or otherwise dilute the rights of holders of Common Stock and the market price of the Common Stock. WE HAVE NEVER PAID ANY DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK. We have never paid any dividends on our Common Stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all earnings. The declaration and payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our profitability, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, the rights of any other classes of preferred stock, and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors. SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK ISSUED IN CONNECTION WITH OUR ACQUISITION OF BIOBALANCE MAY HAVE BEEN ISSUED WITHOUT COMPLYING WITH CERTAIN STATE SECURITIES LAWS. During October 2003, it was determined that certain of the shares of common stock that we issued to holders of BioBalance stock in connection with our January 2003 acquisition of BioBalance may not have been exempt from the registration or qualification requirements of the state securities laws of certain of the states where the holders of BioBalance stock then resided although they were registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Although we are unable to quantify the actual number of shares involved that are still owned by the original recipients of our shares in the acquisition, the per share purchase price paid by the BioBalance holders for the shares they exchanged in the acquisition ranged from $.03 to $3.00 per share and we currently believe that the purchase price paid by such persons who might have certain statutory rescission rights does not exceed approximately $345,000, exclusive of any penalties or interest, although no assurance can be given that any such claims will not exceed this amount. We cannot determine the effect, if any, on our operations or financial condition that may occur from the failure to register or qualify these shares under applicable state securities laws. If it is determined that we offered securities without properly registering or qualifying them under state laws, or securing exemption from registration, regulators could impose on us monetary fines or other sanctions as provided under these laws. We are unable to estimate the amount of monetary fines, if any, or the nature or scope of any sanctions at this time. 26 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 