ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and the prevailing market price and performance of our common shares may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. In addition to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. These important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. We Depend on Our Agreements with Cruise Lines and Resorts; if These Agreements Terminate, Our Business would be Harmed Our revenues are generated principally from our cruise ship spa operations. The cruise line agreements have specific terms, ranging from one to five years with an average remaining term per ship of approximately two years as of February 11, 2008. As of that date, cruise line agreements that expire within one year covered 18 of the 130 ships served by us. These 18 ships accounted for approximately 4.9% of our 2007 revenues. We cannot assure you that any of these agreements will be renewed after their expiration date or that any renewal will be on similar terms. Also, we cannot assure you that upon renewal, these agreements will not cause reductions in our margins. Typically, the amounts we pay to cruise lines and resorts increase upon our entering into renewals of agreements. In addition, these agreements provide for termination by the cruise lines with limited or no advance notice under certain circumstances, including, among other things, the withdrawal of a ship from the cruise trade, the sale or lease of a ship or our failure to achieve specified passenger service standards. As of February 11, 2008, agreements for three ships provided for termination for any reason by the cruise line on 90 days' notice, and, with respect to three ships, we are operating without written agreements. These six ships (which are included in the 18 ships referenced above) accounted for approximately 2.4% of our 2007 revenues. Termination of significant cruise line agreements or a series of other cruise line agreements, either upon completion of their terms or prior thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our resort spa agreements also provide for termination with limited advance notice under certain c ircumstances, including a failure to meet specified performance standards. We Depend on the Cruise Industry and Their Risks are Risks to Us Our revenues are generated principally from cruise ship passengers. Therefore, the ability of the cruise industry to attract passengers is critical to our results of operations and financial condition. Most of the ships we serve are primarily marketed to North American consumers. According to CLIA, the passenger volume of cruises marketed primarily to North American consumers increased from approximately 7.6 million passengers in 2002 to approximately 10.3 million passengers in 2007. However, the cruise industry may not continue to grow or may decrease in size in the future. A decrease in passenger volume could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The cruise industry is subject to significant risks that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Accidents and other incidents involving cruise ships and other unscheduled withdrawals of ships from service, delays in new ship introductions, environmental violations by cruise lines, restricted access of cruise ships to environmentally sensitive regions, hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions and increases in fuel costs could materially adversely impact the cruise industry and our results of operations and financial condition. For example, in the summer of 2005, in response to the dislocations caused by Hurricane Katrina in the Gulf Coast of the United States, Carnival Cruise Lines withdrew three ships that we served from service for use in hurricane relief efforts. Hurricane Wilma, in 2005, caused the temporary closing of cruise ports in South Florida and destroyed a cruise pier facility in Cozumel, Mexico. A number of cruise ships have experienced outbreaks of illnesses that have affected, at times, hundreds of passengers on a ship. In addition, epidemics affecting global regions could also adversely affect cruise ship travel. Also, in recent years, cruise ship sinkings, an attempted pirate attack, passenger disappearances, fatalities from a shore excursion bus accident, a shipboard fire and other incidents have brought adverse publicity to the cruise industry. The public concern over these incidents, especially if they are repeated, or other negative publicity about the cruise industry, could adversely affect the demand for cruises and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 20 The cruise lines' capacity has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow over the next few years as new ships are introduced. In other to utilize the new capacity, it is likely that the cruise industry will need to increase its share of the overall vacation market. In order to increase that market share, cruise lines may be required to offer discounted fares to prospective passengers. Passengers who are cruising solely due to discounted fares may reflect their cost consciousness by not spending on discretionary items, such as our services and products. Severe weather conditions, both at sea and at ports of embarkation, also could adversely affect the cruise industry. The cruise industry also relies to a significant extent on airlines to transport passengers to ports of embarkation. Changes in airline service to cruise embarkation and disembarkation locations could adversely affect us. In addition, any strikes or other disruptions of airline service, including those that could follow terrorist attacks, such as those of September 11, 2001, or armed hostilities, could adversely affect the ability of cruise passengers to reach their ports of embarkation, or could cause cancellation of cruises. Demand for cruises is also likely to continue to be increasingly dependent on the underlying economic strength of the countries from which cruise lines source their passengers. Cruise lines compete for consumer disposable leisure time dollars with other vacation alternatives such as resort hotels and sightseeing vacations. Economic changes that reduce disposable income or consumer confidence in the countries from which our cruise line customers source their passengers may affect demand for vacations, including cruise vacations, which are discretionary purchases. A majority of the cruise passengers we serve reside in North America. We believe that the weaker U.S. economy, including the impact on consumers of higher fuel costs and tighter credit, has had an adverse effect on the discretionary spending of U.S. consumers, including spending on cruise and resort vacations and our services and products at those venues, and that the continuation of these economic conditions or their worsening into a period of economic recession could have a material adverse effect on the cruise industry and could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A number of cruise lines have recently introduced a fuel supplement charge, resulting in an additional fee being charged to passengers. In addition, under new rules anticipated to take effect in the near future, U.S. citizens will be required to carry a passport or other type of specified identification card to travel to certain countries that are currently exempt from these requirements. Many cruise passengers may not have a passport or may not obtain the other required identification card when available. These factors could have an adverse effect on the number of future cruise line passengers. Cruise ships have increasingly had itineraries which provide for the ships to be in port during cruises. When cruise ships are in port, our revenues are adversely affected. In addition, a number of cruise lines are increasingly offering voyages that are longer in duration and that call on more exotic ports. Such cruises generally generate lower revenues for us than shorter cruises and cruises that call on more common destinations. In addition, a recently proposed federal regulation would, if adopted, require cruise ships (including most of the ships we serve) to have longer stays in non-U.S. ports than currently is the case. The effect of this rule could be to reduce the number of cruise line passengers and to otherwise adversely affect our revenues as referenced above. We Depend on Certain Cruise Lines, and the Loss of a Significant Cruise Line Customer Could Harm Us As a result of the consolidation of the cruise industry, the number of independent cruise lines has decreased in the past few years and this trend may continue. Also, historically, some smaller cruise lines have ceased operating for economic reasons and this may happen to other cruise lines in the future. As a result of these factors, a small number of cruise companies, all of whom currently are our customers, dominate the cruise industry. Revenues from passengers of each of the following cruise companies accounted for more than ten percent of our revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively: Carnival (including Carnival, Costa, Cunard, Holland America, P&O European Ferries, Princess, Seabourn Cruise Lines, but excluding Windstar for 2007, as it was sold by Carnival in April 2007): 33.4%, 33.7% and 34.9% and Royal Caribbean (including Royal Caribbean, Celebrity and Azamara cruise lines): 20.0%, 20.8% and 22.7%. These companies also accounted for 101 of the 130 ships served by us as of February 11, 2008. If we cease to serve one of these cruise companies, or a substantial number of ships operated by a cruise company, it could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 The Success of Our Resort Spas Depends on the Resort Hotel Industry Our resort spa operations are conducted at 51 resorts located in a total number of 15 countries and territories. We are dependent on the resort hotel industry for the success of our resort spas. To the extent that consumers do not choose to stay at resorts where we operate spas, over which we have no control, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The resort hotel industry is subject to risks that are similar to those of the cruise industry, including the following risks: adverse economic conditions and the considerations described above regarding the effects of adverse U.S. economic conditions on the cruise industry apply similarly to the resort hotel industry, including the resorts where we have operations, a significant portion of whose guests are from the U.S.; changes in the national, regional and local climate (including major national or international terrorist attacks, armed hostilities or other significant adverse events, local conditions, including an oversupply of hotel properties, or a reduction in demand for hotel rooms); the attractiveness of the resorts to consumers and competition from comparable hotels in terms of, among other things, accessibility and cost; the outbreaks of illnesses, or the perceived risk of such outbreaks, in locations where we operate resort spas; weather conditions, including the destructive Tsunami in December 2004 that severely damaged areas in several Asian countries and damaged most of our facilities in the Maldives; possible labor unrest or changes in economics based on collective bargaining activities; changes in ownership of the resorts we serve; changes in room rates at the resorts we serve; increasing conversion of guest rooms at resorts to condominium units and the decrease in spa usage that often accompanies such conversions, and the related risk that condominium resorts are less likely to be suitable venues for our resort spas; reductions in resort occupancy during major renovations or as a result of damage or other causes (for example, the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino (formerly known as the Aladdin) recently underwent a major renovation which adversely affected the results of operations of our spa at that resort); the maintenance of the resorts we serve and changes in popular travel patterns; changes in guest demographics at the resorts we serve; acquisition by hotel chains of spa service providers to create captive "in-house" brands and development by hotel chains of their own proprietary spa service providers, reducing the opportunity for third party spa providers; elimination of, or reduction in, airline service to locations where we operate resort spas, which would result in fewer guests at those resorts; for example, in 2005, one airline ceased flights from Japan to Saipan (where we have operations), significantly reducing the number of visitors to that island; and reduction in travel to non-U.S. resorts we serve resulting from the new passport requirements for U.S. citizens. To the extent that there are adverse changes in the foregoing conditions, this could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Hostilities May Adversely Impact Our Financial Results The cruise lines we serve operate in waters and call on ports throughout the world, including geographic regions that from time to time experience political and civil unrest and armed hostilities. In 2005, a cruise ship which we serve experienced an attempted pirate attack off the coast of Africa and hostile environments exist in various parts of the world where cruise ships we serve operate. In addition, our resort spa operations in Asia have been adversely affected by the terrorist bombings in Bali, Indonesia in October 2002 and October 2005, the hotel bombing in Jakarta, Indonesia in August 2003 and the 2006 coup in the Fiji Islands. In 2007, there was a terrorist attack in the Maldives, where we operate several resort spas. The threat of additional attacks and of armed hostilities internationally or locally may cause prospective travelers to cancel their plans, including plans for cruise or resort vacations. Weaker cruise industry and resort performance could have a material adve rse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are Required to Make Minimum Payments Under Our Agreements and Face Increasing Payments to Cruise Lines and Resort Operators We are obligated to make minimum annual payments to certain cruise lines and resort operators regardless of the amount of revenues we receive from customers. We may also be required to make such minimum annual payments under any future agreements we enter into. Accordingly, we could be obligated to pay more in minimum payments than the amount we collect from customers. As of December 31, 2007, these payments are required by cruise line agreements covering a total of 25 ships served by us and by 18 of the agreements for our resort spas. As of December 31, 2007, we guaranteed total minimum payments to cruise lines (excluding payments based on minimum amounts per passenger per day of a cruise applicable to certain ships served by us) of approximately: $35.3 million in 2008, $35.8 million in 2009, $24.3 million in 2010, and $9.6 million in 2011. These amounts could increase under new or renewed agreements. Some of the minimum annual payments are calculated based upon minimum amounts per passenger per day of a cruise for passengers actually embarked on each cruise of the respective ship. These payments could significantly increase the minimum payments above. In general, Steiner Leisure has experienced increases in required payments to cruise lines upon renewing, or entering into, new agreements with cruise lines. As of December 31, 2007, we guaranteed total minimum payments to resorts of approximately: $2.8 million in 2008, $2.9 million in 2009, $2.6 million in 2010, $2.0 million in 2011, $1.4 million in 2012 and $5.1 million thereafter. These amounts could increase under new or renewed agreements. We Depend on the Continued Viability of the Ships and Resorts We Serve Our revenues from our shipboard guests and guests at our resort spas can only be generated if the ships and resorts we serve continue to operate. Historically, some smaller cruise lines we served have ceased operating for economic reasons. In addition, one of the resorts where we operate a luxury spa filed for protection under the federal bankruptcy laws several years ago, although it has since been sold to a new owner and continues to operate. However, we cannot assure you of the continued viability of any of the resorts (including our ability to protect our investments in build-outs of resort spa facilities) or cruise lines that we serve. To the extent that cruise lines or resorts that we serve, or could potentially serve in the future, cease to operate, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Delays in New Ship Introductions Could Slow our Growth Our growth depends, in part, on our serving new cruise ships brought into service. A number of cruise lines we serve have experienced in the past, and could experience in the future, delays in bringing new ships into service. In addition, there is a limited number of shipyards in the world capable of constructing large cruise ships in accordance with the standards of major cruise lines. This may also contribute to delays in new ship construction. Such delays could slow our growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 We Depend on Our Key Officers and Qualified Employees Our continued success depends to a significant extent on our senior executive officers, including Clive E. Warshaw, Chairman of the Board, Leonard I. Fluxman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and our three executive vice presidents. The loss of services of any of these persons or other key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have key person life insurance policies with respect to Mr. Fluxman and Glenn Fusfield, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer - Maritime, but not Mr. Warshaw or any of our other executive officers. Since January 2008, we have been seeking a Chief Operating Officer for our Schools division. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find an appropriate candidate for that position within a reasonable period of time. A failure to find such a candidate within a reasonable period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our continued success is also dependent on our ability to recruit and retain personnel qualified to perform our spa services. Shipboard employees typically are employed pursuant to agreements with terms of eight months. Our resort spa and day spa employees are generally employed without contracts, on an at-will basis. Other providers of shipboard spa services have been competing with us for shipboard personnel. We also compete with spas and other employers for resort spa and day spa personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract a sufficient number of applicants possessing the requisite training and skills necessary for our business. Our inability to attract a sufficient number of qualified applicants to provide our services and products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the immigration approval process in the Unit ed States proceeds at a slower pace than previously had been the case. Since many of our shipboard employees are not U.S. citizens, this slower pace could adversely affect our ability to meet our shipboard staffing needs on a timely basis. In addition, the various jurisdictions where we operate our spas have their own licensing or similar requirements applicable to our employees, which could affect our ability to open new spas on a timely basis or adequately staff existing spas. The two ships we serve that are U.S. based also are subject to U.S. labor law requirements that can result in delays in obtaining adequate staffing. We Depend on a Single Product Manufacturer A significant portion of the ingredients and other materials for our Elemis and La Therapie beauty products is produced by a single manufacturer. If this manufacturer ceased producing for us, for any reason, these ingredients and other materials for our products, the transition to other manufacturers could result in significant production delays. Any significant delay or disruption in the supply of our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales. Possible Adverse Changes in U.S. or Foreign Tax Laws Could Increase our Taxes Background Steiner Leisure is a Bahamas international business company ("IBC") that, directly or indirectly, owns, among other entities: Steiner Transocean Limited ("Steiner Transocean"), our principal subsidiary and a Bahamas IBC that conducts our shipboard operations, primarily outside U.S. waters (which constitutes most of our shipboard activities), and Steiner Management Services, LLC, a Florida limited liability company that performs administrative services in connection with our operations in exchange for fees from Steiner Transocean and other subsidiaries ("Management Services"). We also own, directly or indirectly, the shares of additional subsidiaries in the United States, the United Kingdom and other taxable jurisdictions as well as subsidiaries in jurisdictions in which the subsidiaries are not subject to tax. Steiner Leisure and its Bahamas IBC subsidiaries are not subject to Bahamas or other income tax, except as set forth below. Our United States subsidiaries are subject to U.S. income tax as a consolidated group at regular corporate rates up to 35%. Generally, any dividends paid by our United States holding company to its parent, Steiner Leisure, would be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax. Other than as described below, we believe that none of the income generated by our non-U.S. subsidiaries will be effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and, accordingly, that such remaining income will not be subject to United States federal income tax. 24 Steiner Transocean is a Bahamas IBC and is not subject to Bahamas tax. A foreign corporation generally is subject to United States federal corporate income tax at a rate of up to 35% on its United States-source income and on certain limited types of its foreign-source income that is effectively connected to a trade or business it conducts in the United States. A foreign corporation can also be subject to a branch profits tax of 30% imposed on its after tax earnings that are so effectively connected. Steiner Transocean has three types of income: income from the provision of spa services, income from the sales of spa products purchased (at prices determined on an arms' length basis) from another non-U.S. subsidiary of ours and income from leasing (at rates determined on an arms' length basis) its shipboard employees and space to a U.S. subsidiary of ours that performs spa services and sells spa products while the ships are in U.S. waters and pays Steiner Transocean the amounts referenced above (the "U.S. Waters Activities"). We believe that most of Steiner Transocean's shipboard income will be treated as foreign-source income, not effectively connected to a business it conducts in the United States. This belief is based on the following: we believe that all of the functions performed, resources employed and risks assumed in connection with the performance of the above-mentioned services and sales (other than Steiner Transocean's involvement in the U.S. Waters Activities) occur outside of the U.S.; and the income to Steiner Transocean from the U.S. Waters Activities is income effectively connected to a U.S. source, and thus subject to U.S. income taxation, but constitutes a small percentage of Steiner Transocean's total income. The Risks to Us However, all or a portion of Steiner Transocean's income for periods prior to January 1, 2007 could be subject to United States federal income tax at a rate of up to 35%: to the extent the first two activities described above were considered by the United States Internal Revenue Service to occur in the United States, its possessions or territorial waters; or if the activities performed on behalf of Steiner Transocean in the United States were considered to be a material factor in generating Steiner Transocean's income, which we do not believe to be the case. Under recently enacted United States Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") regulations, which create new tests under the existing law for our shipboard income being subject to U.S. federal income tax, for our fiscal years beginning on or after January 2007, all or a portion of Steiner Transocean's income could be subject to U.S. federal income tax at a rate of up to 35%: to the extent the income from Steiner Transocean's shipboard operations that we believe are performed outside of U.S. territorial waters is considered by the IRS to be attributable to functions performed, resources employed or risks assumed within the U.S. or its possessions or territorial waters; to the extent the income from Steiner Transocean's sale of spa products for use, consumption, or disposition in international waters is considered by the IRS to be attributable to functions performed, resources employed or risks assumed within the U.S., its possessions or territorial waters; or to the extent that passage of title or transfer of ownership of products sold by Steiner Transocean for use, consumption or disposition outside international waters, takes place in the U.S. or a U.S. office materially participates in such sales. If Steiner Transocean is a controlled foreign corporation ("CFC"), any of its shipboard income will be considered income from sources within the United States and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax unless such income is attributable to functions performed, resources employed or risks assumed in a foreign country or countries. 25 A CFC is any foreign corporation if more than 50% of the (i) total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote; or (ii) the total value of the stock of such corporation is owned or considered as owned by "U.S. shareholders" on any day during the taxable year of such corporation. A U.S. shareholder means a "U.S. person" who owns or is considered to own ten percent or more of the total combined voting power of the stock entitled to vote of such corporation. A "U.S. person" is a citizen or resident of the U.S., a domestic partnership, a domestic corporation, any domestic estate and a trust over which a U.S. court is able to exercise administrative supervision and over which one or more U.S. persons have authority to control all substantial decisions. We believe that Steiner Transocean is not a CFC. If Steiner Transocean is subject to United States federal income tax at a rate of up to 35% on its United States source income and on certain of its foreign-source income that is effectively connected to a business it conducts in the United States, it would also be subject to a branch profits tax of 30% imposed on its after-tax earnings withdrawn, or considered to be withdrawn, from its United States business. For similar reasons, certain non-U.S. jurisdictions may also assert that Steiner Transocean's income is subject to their income tax. Management Services receives payments from Steiner Transocean and other subsidiaries of Steiner Leisure in return for certain administrative services it provides to Steiner Transocean and those other subsidiaries. The IRS may assert that transactions between Management Services and Steiner Transocean (and between our other direct and indirect subsidiaries) do not contain arm's length terms. In that event, income or deductions could be reallocated among the subsidiaries in a manner that could increase the taxable income of Management Services or other U.S. subsidiaries of ours. This reallocation also could result in the imposition of interest and penalties. Management Services and other U.S. subsidiaries of ours also are subject to U.S. state and local income, franchise and other taxes and certain of our other subsidiaries are subject to taxes in certain other countries. Some of our other United Kingdom, Bahamas and United States subsidiaries provide goods and/or services to us and certain of our other subsidiaries. The United Kingdom Inland Revenue, or United States Internal Revenue Service authorities, may assert that some or all of these transactions do not contain arm's length terms. In that event, income or deductions could be reallocated among our subsidiaries in a manner that could increase the U.K. or U.S. tax on us. This reallocation also could result in the imposition of interest and penalties. We cannot assure you that the tax laws on which we have relied to minimize our income taxes will remain unchanged in the future. In 2007, our effective income tax rate was 8.6%. See Note 9 in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Our land-based operations have significantly increased, including with the acquisition of UCMT in 2006, and we intend to consider land-based opportunities in the future (though we cannot assure you that we will be successful in finding appropriate opportunities), which would result in an increase in the amount of our non-shipboard income. This could result in a significant increase in the amount of our income that is subject to tax. In addition, such amount of income subject to tax will continue to increase to the extent our land-based income continues to increase relative to our shipboard income. We Face Competition on Ships and on Land We compete with passenger activity alternatives on cruise ships and with competing providers of services and products similar to ours seeking agreements with cruise lines. Gambling casinos, bars and a variety of shops are found on almost all of the ships served by us. In addition, ships dock in ports which provide opportunities for additional shopping as well as other activities that compete with us for passenger attention and dollars. Cruise ships also typically offer swimming pools and other recreational facilities and activities, as well as musical and other entertainment, all without additional charge to the passengers. One cruise line we serve has engaged the services of third party spa providers for two of its ships. Additional cruise lines could take similar actions in the future. In addition, there are several other entities offering services in the cruise industry similar to those provided by us and we cannot assure you that we will be able to serve new cruise ships that co me into service and that are not covered by our cruise line agreements. 26 Many of the resorts that we serve or may serve in the future offer recreational entertainment facilities and activities similar to those offered on cruise ships, often without additional charge to guests. A number of these resorts also offer casino gambling. These activities and facilities compete with us for customer time and dollars. Our resort spas also compete with other spas in their vicinities, as well as with other beauty, relaxation or other therapeutic alternatives. These include salons that offer these services at prices significantly lower than those charged by us. We believe, however, that the prices charged by us are appropriate for the quality of the experience we provide in our respective markets. In addition, we also compete with spas and beauty salons owned or operated by companies that have offered land-based spa services longer than we have and which may enjoy greater name recognition with customers and prospective customers than spas operated by us. Also, a number of these spa operators may have greater resources than we do. Further, some resort operators provide spa services themselves. The post-secondary education market is highly competitive. Our post-secondary massage and beauty schools compete with providers of similar instruction in the states in which they are located and elsewhere in the United States, including many providers with greater resources than ours. Our schools face competition from, among others, traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other proprietary schools, including those that offer online education programs, as well as from military service and other immediate employment after secondary education. Some public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to proprietary schools such as ours. Lower tuition by our competitors could limit our ability to increase or maintain student enrollment if we increase our tuition charges. A number of our compet itors' schools are now offering or contemplating offering programs similar to, or otherwise competitive with, ours. This will increase the competition for students. Our product sales compete with a variety of other brands, including those of manufacturers with greater resources than ours, and products with greater name recognition than our products. There are many competitors in the beauty products industry. Our product sales compete with a variety of other brands, including those of manufacturers with greater resources than ours, and those with greater name recognition. For example, within the department stores where we sell our products, a number of competitors sell their products in close proximity to our product offerings. If we are unable to compete effectively in one or more areas of our operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks of Non-U.S. Operations A total of six of our resort spa operations are located on the Indonesian island of Bali, which was the site of terrorist attacks in October 2002 and October 2005. Jakarta, the Indonesian capital, was the site of a hotel bombing in August 2003. Those attacks adversely affected our revenues in that region from 2002 through 2006 and we believe that any growth we experience in Asia in the future (of which we cannot assure you) would come in countries other than Indonesia. In addition, countries where we currently or may in the future operate spas have in the past, and may in the future, experience adverse developments in the political and economic environment, varying governmental regulations, foreign currency fluctuations and potential adverse tax consequences. Such adverse developments, among other things, could prevent us from adequately supervising these operations, and any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain locations in Asia where we operate our spas lack a local workforce with adequate training. Bringing in trained spa employees from elsewhere is sometimes difficult due to applicable immigration rules. Severe Weather Can Disrupt Our Spa Operations We operate spas in the Caribbean, the Pacific, Mexico and Asia and other locations which are subject to severe weather conditions, including hurricanes and other destructive storms. For example, as a result of the powerful Tsunami that struck Asia in December 2004, most of our operations in the Maldives were damaged and we have since then ceased to operate some of those spas. Similar storms or other destructive natural occurrences affecting the areas in which we, or the cruise lines we serve, have operations, including Florida, the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 27 Risk of Early Termination of Resort Spa Agreements A number of our resort spa agreements provide that landlords may terminate the agreement provided that we receive certain compensation with respect to our build-out expenses and earnings lost as a result of such termination. In 2006, our agreement to operate the spa at the One&Only Palmilla Resort in Los Cabos, Mexico was terminated by the resort owner and we received a termination payment. While we always attempt to negotiate the best deal we can in this regard, we cannot assure you that any amounts we would receive in connection with such termination accurately reflects the economic value of the assets that we would be leaving behind as a result of such termination. In addition, in the event of certain terminations of an agreement with a resort spa, such as by the resort operator after our breach of an agreement, or as a result of the bankruptcy of a resort, even if we have a provision in our agreement providing for a termination payment, we could receive no compensation wi th respect to build-out expenditures that we have incurred. We also attempt to obtain terms in our resort spa agreements that protect us in the event that the resort operator's lender forecloses and takes over the property in question. However, we cannot always obtain such protective "non-disturbance" terms. In the event that the lender to a resort spa operator under an agreement where no such non-disturbance term is included forecloses on that property, our agreement could be terminated prior to the expiration of its term. In such case, in addition to the loss of income from that spa, we could lose the residual value of the investment we made to build out that facility. We May Have Insufficient Liquidity to Take Advantage of Some Available Opportunities Among other parts of our business plan, we consider various land-based resort spa opportunities. We have been required, in connection with a number of our resort spa agreements, to incur the cost of the resort-spa build-out of the spa facilities in amounts up to approximately $15.6 million. In addition, with respect to the spa for which we spent the aforesaid amount, we also agreed to advance a total of $6.4 million toward its build-out. Any spas we might wish to operate in the future could require build-out expenditures, and we cannot assure you that we would have available sufficient resources to take advantage of any such opportunity. We may also seek acquisitions or other opportunities to grow our business which would require us to expend funds, possibly significant amounts, such as our acquisition of UCMT in 2006. We are subject to restrictions on capital expenditures under our credit facility. Other limitations on capital expenditures, or on other oper ational matters, could apply in the future. Additionally, our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to be able to take advantage of all otherwise favorable opportunities to operate resort spas or effectuate other potentially favorable transactions. Generally, as long as we have certain bank agreements outstanding, if we exceed our currently anticipated capital expenditures or our cash flow from operations is less than anticipated, we would need to seek concessions from our lender and/or additional equity or debt financing to fund our business plan. Additional financing, including a new credit facility, may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Risks Relating to Build-out and Opening of Our Resort Spas In connection with new resort spas that we may seek to operate in the future, we may wish, or be required, to build-out the spa's facilities at our own expense. The cost to build out resort spa facilities has ranged from relatively small amounts (for small spas in the Pacific and Asia) to approximately $15.6 million (plus the advance of an additional $6.4 million in construction costs). Such build-outs involve risks to us, including the following: The commencement of the build-outs generally cannot begin until the venue owner has completed its own construction site around the premises of the proposed spa. We have no control over that process. The build-out process, as well as weather-related postponements and other factors affecting construction projects generally, could delay our spas' opening dates from those which we may have announced to the public and could result in a loss of revenue to us. If the resort owner files for bankruptcy or otherwise has financial problems prior to the opening of the spa, the spa may never commence operations. We may lose substantial funds expended on the build-out to that point if we lose our rights to build out and/or operate that spa as a result of a bankruptcy or similar proceeding. For example, the operator of the Aladdin Resort and Casino, where we operated a luxury spa, filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. While that resort has been sold to a new owner (Planet Hollywood) and we continue to conduct our operations there, we cannot assure you that our operations at other facilities we operate will not be subject to bankruptcy proceedings or other financial problems. Such proceedings or other problems at a resort could have a material adverse affect on our operations at that resort. 28 In addition, openings of new resort spas may be delayed for reasons not related to build-outs. Among other things, adverse local economic or political conditions, hostility in the region, unavailability of labor or outbreaks of illnesses could delay commencement of our operations at resort spas beyond the dates which we may have announced to the public. Non-Regulatory Risks Relating to Our Schools Risks Related to Quality of Training Prospective employers of graduates of our schools require new employees to have received training reflecting the latest methods for performing the services involved. If our training is unable to keep pace with the constantly changing demands of consumers in the spa and beauty services areas, this could adversely affect the ability of our students to find employment after completing their training with us, which could, in turn, have an adverse affect on our ability to attract students. Risks Related to Student Enrollment and Retention and Faculty Retention In order for our schools to be successful, we must enroll and retain students at rates which would support such success. While we use a variety of means to market our schools to prospective students, among other things, the competition for students among schools similar to ours and other types of post-secondary schools, is intense. The failure to maintain student enrollment and retention rates at sufficient levels could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of our schools. The success of our schools also depends on our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of faculty members with appropriate qualifications and experience, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain such faculty when, and in the locations, needed. We offer payment plans to help students pay that portion of their education expense not covered by financial aid programs, including plans under which these balances are unsecured and not guaranteed. Losses related to unpaid student balances could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition of our schools. Sallie Mae, a leading provider of student loans, recently announced that it would be discontinuing a loan program for higher credit risk individuals. Although, based on our current students' manner of financing their tuition payments to us, we do not believe that this action will have a material adverse effect on our schools' operations, to the extent that Sallie Mae determined to expand the cessation of loans beyond what was recently announced, or other significant student loan providers determine to broadly restrict or cease their student lending activities, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if prospective students of ours consist, to a significantly greater extent than our current student body, of higher credit risk individuals, those students will likely have difficulty obtaining financing for their tuition payments to us and this could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. High Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Attract and Retain Students. Increases in interest rates result in a corresponding increase in the cost to some of our existing and prospective students of financing their education. This could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our schools and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students' repayment of loans. Higher default rates may, in turn, adversely impact the eligibility of a school to participate in Title IV programs and/or the willingness of private lenders to make private loan programs available to students who attend certain schools, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending those schools. Currently, only a small amount of the financing that our students receive is tied to interest rates that vary with prevailing interest rates. If the amount of floating interest rate-related financial aid received by our student s increases significantly, then the aforementioned risk would increase for us. 29 Risks Related to Weather Four of our campuses are located in Florida, which experienced severe hurricanes in 2004 and 2005. Those hurricanes caused businesses in that state, including some of our campuses, to close for varying periods of time. A total of four of our UCMT campuses are located in Colorado and Utah, which periodically experience heavy snow conditions. In 2006, we closed two campuses of UCMT for several days due to severe snow conditions. Our schools in Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia also could be subject to closing for weather-related reasons. To the extent that these types, or any other type, of severe weather occurs again in states where we operate our schools, some of our campuses could be required to close for periods of time which could, particularly if such severe weather results in damage to our facilities, materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of our schools. Prolonged closings of our schools due to adverse weather (or otherwise) also cou ld adversely affect our ability to successfully market our schools to prospective students. Government Regulation Could Adversely Affect Us We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations with respect to our various operations. In addition to the requirements and limitations that these regulations currently impose on us, these regulations are subject to change that could further limit our activities. Additional regulations could also be adopted in the future that could add further requirements and/or limitations with respect to our business. Products Our advertising and product labeling practices in the United States are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission and the Food and Drug Administration, as well as various other federal, state and local regulatory authorities. To the extent that the packaging or promotional materials for our products are deemed to be making claims of medical efficacy, this could result in closer scrutiny by regulatory authorities. If government regulators were to determine that any of our products were being sold through exaggerated claims of medical efficacy, among other things, sales of such products in the United States could be barred. The contents of our products that are sold in the United States are subject to regulation in the United States. We are subject to similar regulation under the laws of the United Kingdom and certain European Union laws. Federal, state and local regulations in the United States and non-United States jurisdictions, including increasing regu lation by the European Union, designed to protect consumers or the environment, could increase the cost of, or otherwise materially adversely affect, the advertising, manufacturing and packaging of our products. Resort Spas and Day Spas Our resort spa and day spa operations are subject to applicable regulations in the locations where such operations are conducted. These regulations could adversely affect our ability to sell, or could increase the cost of, our services and products. Among other things, local immigration laws could impede our ability to obtain work permits needed for employees at our resort spas and day spas. Schools We derive a large portion of our massage and beauty school revenue from students participating in federal student financial aid programs under Title IV of the HEA administered by the DOE. For these programs to be available to students, our schools must obtain and maintain authorization by the appropriate state agencies, accreditations by an accrediting agency authorized by the DOE and certification by the DOE. As a result, our schools are subject to extensive regulation by these agencies. These regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, payment of refunds to students who withdraw from school, acquisitions or openings of additional schools, additions of new educational programs and changes in our corporate structure and ownership. The agencies that regulate our operations periodically re vise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. 30 If one or more of our schools were to violate any of these regulatory requirements, we could suffer a financial penalty. A regulatory authority also could place limitations on our schools' operations or suspend or terminate our schools' ability to grant degrees and certificates or suspend or terminate eligibility to receive federal student financial aid funds on behalf of their students. Such violation also could result in loss of state licensure or accreditation. A significant portion of our students rely on federal student financial aid funds to finance their education. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these requirements will be applied, or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. Even if we are complying with applicable governmental and accrediting body requirements, increased regulatory scrutiny or adverse publicity arising from allegations of non-compliance may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and adversely affect the financial results of our schools. To participate in federal student financial aid programs under the HEA, schools must meet general standards of financial responsibility and either meet specific numeric measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the DOE or post a letter of credit in favor of the DOE and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in the federal student financial aid programs. While currently none of our schools is required to post such DOE letter of credit or accept such other conditions, if our schools fail to satisfy the applicable standards in the future, any required letter of credit, if obtainable, and any limitations on our participation in federal student financial aid programs, could adversely affect the results of operations of our schools. Our schools could lose their eligibility to participate in some or all of the federal student financial aid programs if defaults by students on their program loans equal or exceed specified rates or if our schools derive more than 90% of their revenue from federal student financial aid programs in any fiscal year. Such excessive default rates or the 90% derivation of revenues from these programs could have a material adverse effect on our schools' population and revenue. The operation of our schools is required to be authorized by applicable agencies of the states in which they are located. These authorizations vary from state to state but, generally, require schools to meet tests relating to financial matters, administrative capabilities, educational criteria, the rates at which students complete their programs and the rates at which students are placed into employment. State authorization and accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by the DOE also are required for an institution to participate in the federal student financial aid programs. Requirements for state authorization and accreditation vary substantially among the applicable agencies. Loss of state authorization or accreditation by one or more of our campuses could have a material adverse affect on our student population and revenue. Schools participating in Title IV programs may not provide any commission, bonus or any other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollment or financial aid to any person or entity, engaging in any student recruitment or admission activity or making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV program funds. The law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances. If the DOE determined that our compensation practices violated these standards, the DOE could subject our schools to monetary fines or penalties or other sanctions. Any substantial fine, penalty or other sanction against our schools could have a material adverse affect on the schools' results of operations and financial conditions. Because our schools operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to audits, compliance reviews, inquiries, complaints, investigations, claims of non-compliance and lawsuits of federal and state governmental agencies, present and former students and employees and other third parties who may allege violations of any regulatory requirements applicable to our schools. If the results of any such claims are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, operational limitations, loss of federal funding or other sanctions. Even if we adequately address issues raised by any such claims or actions, we may have to devote significant financial and management resources to do so. In recent years, the operations of a number of companies in the for-profit post-secondary education industry have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing resulted in investigations by federal and state law enforcement agencies and others. These allegations, reviews and investigations of other companies and the accompanying adverse publicity could have a negative impact on the post-secondary education industry as a whole, and our schools' business. 31 Our growth strategy with respect to our schools includes consideration of acquisitions that we believe would be beneficial to us, such as our 2006 acquisition of UCMT. Any proposed acquisition of an institution that participates in federal student financial aid programs requires that we seek approval from the DOE and applicable state agencies and accrediting authorities. A change of ownership or control of an institution can result in the temporary suspension of the institution's participation in the federal student financial aid programs unless a timely and materially complete application for recertification is filed with the DOE and the DOE issues a temporary certification document. Once the final change of ownership approvals are received from the state licensing agencies and the accrediting authorities, the school must then apply to the DOE to obtain final approval for Title IV funding eligibility. If we are unable to obtain approvals from state agencies, accrediting agencies or the DOE for any institution we propose to acquire, the acquired schools would not be permitted to participate in federal student financial aid programs. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on the schools to be acquired and on our schools operations in general. In addition, if we open new schools or branch campuses of our existing schools or offer new programs before these new locations or program offerings are approved by the DOE, our students at those schools or campuses, or in those programs, would not be eligible for Title IV financing. State and accrediting regulators' approval is also needed for such new operations. While all of our schools are currently eligible for our students to receive federal funding, including loan funds, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such eligibility for our schools at all times in the future. The financial aid and assistance programs, in which most of our schools' students participate, are subject to political and budgetary considerations. There is no assurance that funding for such programs will be maintained at current levels. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, Title IV program funds would likely have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of our schools because the schools' student enrollment would be likely to decline as a result of our students' inability to finance their education without the availability of Title IV program funds. Increased regulation in recent years related to the operations of our schools has required us to increase the amount of funds we spend on compliance-related matters. While all our schools currently are eligible for students to receive federal funding, including loan funds, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such eligibility for our schools at all times in the future. In connection with UCMT's most recent application for renewal of its accreditation, ACCET determined that UCMT's programs at certain of its campuses did not meet certain required criteria for the required reporting period. As a result, ACCET issued a programmatic show cause directive for one of its programs (which requires an institution to demonstrate why approval to offer a specific program should not be withdrawn) and elected to continue the deferral of consideration of the institution's application for renewal of accreditation and directed the institution in the interim to substantiate steps taken to address the issue. The deferral of accreditation was intended to allow for an opportunity to clarify and resolve the areas of concern. However, during that period UCMT could not introduce new programs or new locations or make any major program revisions. While this matter has been resolved with no adverse action taken and no material adverse effects with respect to UCMT, we cannot assure you that, in the future, all of our companies will at all times possess the according accreditation necessary for the eligibility of students for Title IV financing. Any denial of renewal of accreditation of one or more of our campuses or educational programs would result in the loss of eligibility of students and prospective students at those campuses or in those programs to obtain Title IV financing, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Product Liability and Other Potential Claims Could Adversely Affect Us The nature and use of our products and services could give rise to product liability or other claims if a customer were injured while receiving one of our services (including those performed by students at our schools) or were to suffer adverse reactions following the use of our products. Adverse reactions could be caused by various factors beyond our control, including hypoallergenic sensitivity and the possibility of malicious tampering with our products. If any of these events occurred, we could incur substantial litigation expense, receive adverse publicity and suffer a loss of sales, and, therefore, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As the types of services we offer increase, such as the additions of acupuncture, teeth whitening, and other "medispa" services, the potential for claims against us could also increase. 32 Our Credit Facility Financing Could Restrict Our Activities We have a credit facility with a bank that provides for a revolving credit facility of up to $30 million. That agreement contains certain affirmative, negative and financial covenants that could restrict us from taking actions which our management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of Steiner Leisure and its shareholders. These covenants remain applicable even when there are no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants could be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the credit facility. Upon the occurrence of such a default, the outstanding principal, together with all accrued interest under our credit facility will, at the option of our lenders, become immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay amounts that become due under the credit facility, our lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as security under our credit facility. If the indebtedness under the credit facility were to be accelerated, our lender could take actions that could materially adversely affect our business and operations. Need for Growth in Product Sales and Risk Relating to Retail Rollouts In order for us to grow, we need to find additional sources of revenue. We have been placing additional emphasis on growth in sales of our products, particularly our "Elemis" and "La Therapie" lines apart from sales on cruise ships and at our resort spas. While we believe that our Elemis luxury day spas in Coral Gables, Florida and London, England have assisted us in our efforts to increase our Elemis and La Therapie products sales, we cannot assure you that these spas will have significant positive effects on such distribution efforts because, among other things, those spas are the only day spas in their respective countries operated under the Elemis name, or that we otherwise will be able to grow our product sales. Since 2005, in the British Isles and the United States, we have commenced selling our Elemis products in dedicated areas of well-known department stores and other retail establishments. From time to time in the future we may announce additional agreements with retail venues to operate such dedicated Elemis sales areas. Those agreements may be in a non-written form and may otherwise not be formal commitments. Accordingly, even if we announce our intention to commence retail product sale operations at certain venues, we cannot provide assurance that, in fact, such operations will be effectuated in all instances. Our ability to grow our product sales, in addition to the challenges of competition described above, may be adversely affected by economic conditions. We believe that the weaker U.S. economy, including the impact on consumers of higher fuel costs and tighter credit, has had an adverse effect on the discretionary spending of U.S. consumers, including spending on beauty products such as those we offer. Accordingly, the continuation of these economic conditions or the worsening into a period of economic recession could have a material adverse effect on our products business. Need to Expand our Services The demands of consumers with respect to spa services and products continue to evolve. Among other things, there is a trend to add services at spa facilities similar to those traditionally provided in medical facilities, including services relating to skin care. In order for us to maintain our base of customers and expand our spa business, we must continue to expand our menu of services to keep up with these demands, as we have done recently by offering teeth whitening, acupuncture and microdermabrasion services. These services, as well as other services that consumers may demand, may enhance our exposure to liability for injuries to our customers. Our ability to provide certain additional services depends on our ability to find appropriate third parties with whom to work in connection with these services and, in certain cases, could be dependent on our ability to fund substantial costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find such appropriate third parties or be able to fund such costs. 33 We are not a United States Company and, as a Result, there are Special Risks Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association, which are similar to the articles of incorporation and bylaws of a United States corporation, and the International Business Companies Act, 2000 of The Bahamas (the "IBC Act"). There are very few reported judicial cases under the IBC Act. Accordingly, the rights and remedies of our public shareholders in the face of actions by our management, directors or shareholders are less clearly established than would be the case with a company incorporated in a United States jurisdiction or in another country, such as the United Kingdom. Certain of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. A substantial portion of our assets and the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to affect service of process within the United States upon such persons. It also may not be possible to enforce against them or Steiner Leisure judgments obtained in United States courts based on the civil liability provisions of the United States or the federal securities laws. In the opinion of Harry B. Sands, Lobosky and Company, our Bahamas counsel: it is unlikely that Bahamian courts would entertain original actions against Bahamas companies or their directors or officers based solely upon United States federal securities laws; judgments predicated upon any civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws are not directly enforceable in The Bahamas; rather, a lawsuit must be brought in The Bahamas on any such judgment; and in general, a judgment obtained after due trial by a court of competent jurisdiction, which is final and conclusive as to the issues in contention, is actionable in Bahamian courts and is impeachable only upon the grounds of fraud, public policy and natural justice. Currency Risk Because we pay for the administration of recruitment and training of our shipboard personnel and the manufacturing of raw materials and of our products in U.K. Pounds Sterling and Euros, the weakness in recent years of the U.S. Dollar against those currencies has adversely affected our results of operations. Continued weakness of the U.S. Dollar against the U.K. Pound Sterling and the Euro could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 34 Risks Related to Acquisitions One of the ways that we have grown our business has been through acquisitions of existing businesses, including, among others, resort spa operations and post-secondary education schools. These acquisitions have represented a significant amount of our growth in the past. We will continue to consider strategic acquisitions of existing businesses that are compatible with our operations. Any such acquisitions would be subject to various risks, including, without limitation, the risk that we will not be able to operate a business as successfully as it was operated prior to its acquisition, the risk that the purchase price we pay for an acquisition does not, in fact, represent a fair price for the transaction and the risk that we might not be able to successfully integrate any new business that we acquire into our then existing operations. In connection with acquisitions, we attempt to negotiate appropriate protections for us against unknown liabilities relating to the pre-acquisition activities of the target business. However, those protections generally have some limitations, and we often depend on the continued solvency of the seller of the business. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be protected against all liabilities of the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future. Risks of Unauthorized Access to Our Computer Networks Our business relies to a significant extent on our computer networks. These networks, similar to computer networks in many businesses, may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. As a result, among other things, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Anti-takeover Provisions Limit Shareholders' Ability to Affect a Change in Management or Control Our Articles of Association ("Articles") include certain provisions which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a future takeover or change in control of Steiner Leisure that shareholders may consider to be in their best interests. Among other things, our Articles provide for a classified board of directors serving staggered terms of three years, super majority voting requirements with respect to certain significant transactions and restrictions on certain transactions with holders of 15% or more of the voting shares of Steiner Leisure. We have an authorized class of 10,000,000 Preferred Shares that may be issued in one or more series by our board of directors (our "Board") without further action by the shareholders on such terms and with such rights, preferences and designations as our Board may determine. Furthermore, our Amended and Restated 1996 Share Option and Incentive Plan and our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and certain of our employment agreements provide certain rights to plan participants and our officers in the event of a change in control of Steiner Leisure. In addition, certain of our cruise line and resort agreements provide the other parties with rights of termination in the event of certain changes in control of Steiner Leisure. Our Stock Price Has Fluctuated and Could Fluctuate Significantly Since our common shares have commenced being publicly traded, the market price of our shares has fluctuated over a wide range and may continue to do so in the future. The market price of our common shares could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including, among other things: the depth and liquidity of the trading market for our common shares; quarterly variations in our actual or anticipated operating results; changes in recommendations or estimates of our earnings or cruise industry earnings by analysts; market conditions in the travel, leisure and cruise industries; announcements or activities by our competitors; the market price of shares of our cruise line or resort customers; and general economic or market conditions. Any such event could result in a material decline in the price of our common shares. 35 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 