Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Consolidated Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information Part III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services Part IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signature page 2 PART I Item 1. Business THE COMPANY General Enterprise Bancorp, Inc. (the “company”) is a Massachusetts corporation, which operates as the parent holding company of Enterprise Bank and Trust Company (the “bank”). The business and operations of the company are subject to the regulatory oversight of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”). Substantially all of the company’s operations are conducted through the bank. The bank is a Massachusetts trust company with three wholly owned subsidiaries, Enterprise Investment Services, LLC, Enterprise Insurance Services, LLC and Enterprise Security Corporation. The bank’s deposit accounts are insured by the Bank Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”), up to the maximum amount provided by law. The FDIC and the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks (the “Commissioner”) have regulatory authority over the bank. The company’s headquarters are located at 222 Merrimack Street in Lowell, Massachusetts. The company’s primary market area is the Merrimack Valley and North Central region of Massachusetts and south-central New Hampshire. The company has fourteen full service branch banking offices located in the Massachusetts cities and towns of Andover, Billerica, Chelmsford, Dracut, Fitchburg, Leominster, Lowell, Tewksbury, and Westford; and in Salem, New Hampshire which serve those cities and towns as well as the surrounding communities. The company is principally engaged in the business of attracting deposits from the general public and investing in commercial loans and investment securities. Through the bank and its subsidiaries, the company offers a range of commercial and consumer loan and deposit products, and investment management, trust and insurance services. Management seeks to hire, develop and retain highly motivated top professionals who understand the communities in which the bank operates as well as the local banking environment. The company endeavors to expand market share in existing markets and to pursue strategic growth through expansion into neighboring markets. The company places an emphasis on providing highly responsive, knowledgeable, personal service to its customers and on developing innovative products to serve the financial requirements of businesses, professionals, non-profit organizations, and individuals. Lending General The company specializes in lending to businesses, corporations, partnerships, non-profit organizations, professionals and individuals. The company’s primary lending focus is on the development of high quality commercial lending relationships achieved through active business development efforts, strong community involvement and focused marketing strategies. Loans made by the company to businesses include commercial mortgage loans, construction loans, secured and unsecured commercial loans and lines, and standby letters of credit. The company also originates equipment lease financing for businesses. Loans made to individuals include residential mortgage loans, home equity loans, residential construction loans, secured and unsecured personal loans and lines of credit and mortgage loans on investment and vacation properties. The company employs a seasoned commercial lending staff, with commercial lenders supporting each branch location. The company has an internal loan review function that assesses the compliance of loan originations with the company’s internal policies and underwriting guidelines and monitors the ongoing quality of the loan portfolio. The company also contracts with an external loan review company to review loans in the loan portfolio on a pre-determined schedule, based on the type, size, rating, and overall risk of the loan. In addition, a management loan review committee, consisting of senior lending officers and loan review personnel, is responsible for setting loan policy and procedures, as well as reviewing loans on the company’s internal “watch asset list” and classified loan report. A loan committee, consisting of nine outside members of the board of directors, and two executive officers who are also members of the board of directors, reviews current portfolio statistics, new credits, construction loan reviews, loan delinquencies, 3 allowance for loan losses and watched assets, as well as current market conditions and issues relating to the construction and real estate development industry. The company has also established an internal credit review committee, consisting of senior lending officers and loan review personnel. The committee meets on an as needed basis to review loan requests related to borrowing relationships of certain levels, as well as other borrower relationships recommended for discussion by committee members. The company’s executive committee of the board of directors also approves loan relationships exceeding certain prescribed limits. At December 31, 2005, the bank’s statutory lending limit, based on 20% of capital, to any individual borrower was approximately $15.6 million, subject to certain exceptions provided under applicable law. At December 31, 2005, the bank had no outstanding lending relationships or commitments in excess of the legal lending limit. Total loans amounted to $699.7 million and represented 76% of total assets at December 31, 2005. Commercial Real Estate, Commercial and Construction Loans Commercial real estate loans include loans secured by commercial and industrial properties, apartment buildings, office and mixed-use facilities, strip shopping malls, or other commercial property. Commercial real estate loans generally have repayment periods of approximately fifteen to twenty years. Variable interest rate loans comprise approximately 93% of the commercial real estate portfolio. Variable interest rate loans have a variety of adjustment terms and indices, and are generally fixed for the first one to five years before periodic rate adjustment begins. At December 31, 2005, commercial real estate loans totaled $327.0 million, an increase of 27% over the prior year, and represented 47% of gross loans outstanding at December 31, 2005. Unadvanced portions of commercial real estate loan commitments amounted to $5.7 million at December 31, 2005. Commercial and industrial loans include seasonal revolving lines of credit, working capital loans, equipment financing (including equipment leases), loans partially guaranteed by the Small Business Administration (SBA), and loans under various programs issued in conjunction with the Massachusetts Development and Finance Agency and other agencies, as well as unsecured loans and lines to financially strong borrowers. Commercial loans may be secured in whole or in part by real estate unrelated to the principal purpose of the loan or secured by inventories, equipment, or receivables, and are generally guaranteed by the principals of the borrower. Approximately 83% of loans in this portfolio have interest rates that are periodically adjusted, generally with fixed initial periods of one to three years. Commercial and industrial loans have average repayment periods of one to seven years. At December 31, 2005, commercial and industrial loans totaled $166.0 million, an increase of 16% over the prior year, and represented 24% of gross loans. Unadvanced portions of commercial and industrial loans and lines amounted to $98.2 million at December 31, 2005. Commercial construction loans include the development of residential housing and condominium projects, the development of commercial and industrial use property and loans for the purchase and improvement of raw land. The company’s construction lenders work to cultivate long-term relationships with established developers. The company limits the amount of financing provided to any single developer for the construction of properties built on a speculation basis. Funds for construction projects are disbursed as pre-specified stages of construction are completed. Regular site inspections are performed, either by experienced construction lenders on staff or by independent outside inspection companies, at each construction phase, prior to advancing additional funds. Commercial construction loans generally have terms of one to three years. Approximately 92% of the construction portfolio is composed of adjustable rate loans. Commercial construction loans amounted to $108.0 million, or 15% of gross loans outstanding, at December 31, 2005, an increase of 34% over the prior year. At December 31, 2005, amounts committed but unadvanced in connection with such loans amounted to $74.1 million. From time to time the company participates in the financing of certain large commercial projects with other banks. In some cases the company may act as the lead lender, originating and servicing the loans, but participating out a portion of the funding to other banks. In other cases the company may participate in loans originated by other institutions. In each case the participating bank funds a percentage of the loan commitment and takes on the related risk. The company performs an independent credit analysis of each commitment prior to participation in the loan. Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the company to guarantee the performance by a customer to a third party. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loan facilities to customers. If the letter of credit is drawn upon the company creates a loan for the 4 customer, generally a commercial loan, with the same criteria associated with similar commercial loans. Letter of Credit commitments amounted to $16.1 million as of December 31, 2005. Residential Loans The company makes conventional mortgage loans on single-family residential properties with original loan-to-value ratios generally up to 97% (with private mortgage insurance) of the appraised value of the property securing the loan. These residential properties serve as the primary homes of the borrowers. The company also originates loans on second homes, vacation properties and two-to-four family owner occupied dwellings with original loan-to-value ratios generally up to 80% of the property’s appraised value. In addition the company provides financing for the construction of owner occupied single-family residences. At December 31, 2005, residential loans (including residential construction loans) totaled $51.4 million, or 7% of gross loans outstanding, and represented 18% growth over the prior year. Residential mortgage loans made by the company have traditionally been long-term loans made for periods of up to 30 years at either fixed or adjustable rates of interest. Long-term fixed rate residential mortgage loans are generally originated using underwriting standards and standard documentation allowing their sale in the secondary market. Depending on the current interest rate environment, management projections of future interest rates and the overall asset-liability management program of the company, management may elect to sell or hold fixed rate residential loan production for the company’s portfolio. The company generally puts variable rate residential mortgage loans into the company’s portfolio. The company may retain or sell the servicing when selling the loans. All loans sold are currently sold without recourse. Residential loans classified as held for sale amounted to $267 thousand at December 31, 2005. Home Equity Lines of Credit Home equity lines are originated for the company’s portfolio for single-family residential properties with maximum original loan-to-value ratios generally up to 80% of the appraised value of the property securing the loan. Home equity lines generally have interest rates that adjust monthly based on changes in the Prime rate. The payment schedule for home equity lines for the first ten years of the loans are interest only payments. At the end of ten years the line is frozen to future advances and principal and interest payments are collected over a fifteen-year amortization schedule. Home equity lines amounted to $44.4 million at December 31, 2005, representing 6% of gross loans outstanding, and 4% growth over the prior year. Amounts committed but unadvanced related to home equity lines amounted to $48.0 million at December 31, 2005. Consumer Loans Consumer loans primarily consist of secured or unsecured personal loans and overdraft protection lines on checking accounts extended to individual customers. Consumer loans amounted to $4.0 million, or 0.6% of gross loans outstanding at December 31, 2005, which constituted a 4% decrease since December 31, 2004. Risk Elements/Asset Quality Commercial lending may entail significant additional risks compared to residential mortgage lending. Loan size is typically larger and payment expectations on such loans can be more easily influenced by adverse conditions in the real estate market or in the economy in general. Commercial construction financing involves a higher degree of risk than long term financing on existing occupied real estate. Property values at completion of construction or development can be influenced by underestimation of the actual costs expended to complete the project. Thus, the company may be required to advance funds beyond the original commitment in order to finish the development. If projected cash flows to be derived from the loan collateral or the values of the collateral prove to be inaccurate, for example because of unprojected additional costs or slow unit sales, the collateral may have a value that is insufficient to ensure full repayment. The classification of a loan or other asset as non-performing does not necessarily indicate that loan principal and interest will be ultimately uncollectible. However, management recognizes the greater risk characteristics of these assets and therefore considers the potential risk of loss on assets included in this category in evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. 5 Non-performing assets consist of non-performing loans and other real estate owned (“OREO”). Non-performing loans include non-accrual loans, loans past due ninety days or more but still accruing and impaired loans. Loans on which the accrual of interest has been discontinued are designated as non-accrual loans. Accrual of interest on loans is discontinued when a loan becomes contractually past due, with respect to interest or principal, by ninety days for real estate loans and generally sixty days for all other loans, or when reasonable doubt exists as to the full and timely collection of interest or principal. In certain instances, loans that have become ninety days past due may remain on accrual status if the value of the collateral securing the loan is sufficient to cover principal and interest and the loan is in the process of collection or if the principal and interest is guaranteed by the federal government or an agency thereof. Commercial loans for which management considers it probable that not all contractual principal and interest will be collected in accordance with the original loan terms are designated as impaired loans. Loans where interest rates and/or principal payments have been deferred or reduced as a result of financial difficulties of the borrower are also classified as restructured. Not all loans on non-accrual status are designated as impaired. OREO consists of real estate acquired through foreclosure proceedings and real estate acquired through acceptance of a deed in lieu of foreclosure. Non-performing assets amounted to $1.5 million, or 0.16% of total assets at December 31, 2005. Additional information regarding these risk elements is contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, under the heading “Asset Quality”, contained in this report. Allowance for Loan Losses Inherent in the lending process is the risk of loss. While the company endeavors to minimize this risk, management recognizes that loan losses will occur and that the amount of these losses will fluctuate depending on the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio. The credit risk of the portfolio depends on a wide variety of factors. The allowance for loan losses is an estimate of credit risk inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is established through a provision for loan losses charged to operations. Loan losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the collectability of the loan principal is unlikely. Recoveries on loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance. The company maintains the allowance at a level that it deems adequate to absorb all reasonably anticipated losses from specifically known and other credit risks associated with the portfolio. The allowance for loan losses was $12.1 million, or 1.72% of total loans, at December 31, 2005. The company provided $1.1 million to the allowance for loan losses, and net charge-offs amounted to $8 thousand, during 2005. Additional information regarding the allowance for loan losses is contained in Item 7 of this report, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, under the heading “Allowance for Loan Losses”, which is contained in both the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section and the “Financial Condition” section of Item 7. Investment Activities The company’s investment activity is an integral part of the overall asset-liability management program of the company. The investment function provides readily available funds to support loan growth as well as to meet withdrawals and maturities of deposits and attempts to provide maximum return consistent with liquidity constraints and general prudence, including diversification and safety of investments. The securities in which the company may invest are limited by regulation. In addition, the company has an internal investment policy which restricts investments to the following categories: U.S. treasury securities, federal agency obligations (obligations issued by government sponsored enterprises that are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government), mortgage-backed securities (“MBS’s”), including collateralized mortgage obligations (“CMO’s”), and state, county and municipal securities (“Municipals”), all of which must be considered investment grade by a recognized rating service. The company also invests in certificates of deposit, and on a limited basis in equity securities. The bank is also required to purchase Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (“FHLB”) stock in association with outstanding advances from the FHLB; this stock is classified as a restricted investment and carried at cost. The short-term investments classified as cash equivalents may be comprised of short-term U.S. Agency Discount Notes, money market mutual funds and overnight or short-term federal funds sold. Other short-term investments may consist of auction rate preferred securities, which typically have 6 redemption (auction) dates of up to forty-nine days, but cannot readily be converted to cash at par value until the next successful auction. The investment policy also limits the categories within the investment portfolio to particular percentages of the total portfolio and to certain percentages of total assets and/or capital. The effect of changes in interest rates, principal payments and market values are considered when purchasing securities. Investment transactions, portfolio allocations and projected cash flows are prepared monthly and presented to the company’s Asset-Liability Committee of the Board of Directors (“ALCO”) on a periodic basis. ALCO is comprised of six outside directors and three executive officers of the company who are also directors, with various management liaisons. In addition, several directors who are not on the committee rotate in on a regular basis. ALCO performs an in-depth review of the company’s asset-liability strategy. The credit rating of each security or obligation in the portfolio is closely monitored by management and presented, at least annually, to the ALCO, along with a detailed evaluation of the company’s municipal securities portfolio. The fair market value of the investment portfolio was $156.5 million at December 31, 2005, and total short-term investments amounted to $5.4 million at that date. At December 31, 2005 and 2004 all investment securities, with the exception of restricted FHLB stock, were classified as available for sale and were carried at fair market value. Source of Funds Deposits Deposits have traditionally been the principal source of the company’s funds. The company offers a broad selection of deposit products to the general public, including personal interest checking accounts (“PIC”), savings accounts, money market accounts, individual retirement accounts (“IRA”) and certificates of deposit. The company also offers commercial checking, business and municipal savings accounts, money markets and business sweep accounts, escrow management accounts, as well as checking and Simplified Employee Pension (“SEP”) accounts to employees of our business customers. Terms on certificates of deposit range from overnight to thirty months. The company has offered premium rates on specially designated products from time to time in order to promote new branches and to attract customers. In addition, the company has the ability to issue brokered certificates of deposit. Management determines the interest rates offered on deposit accounts based on current and expected economic conditions, competition, liquidity needs, the volatility of the existing deposits, the asset-liability position of the company and the overall objectives of the company regarding the growth and retention of relationships. The company utilizes third party money market mutual funds for sweep accounts. Management believes that commercial customers benefit from enhanced interest rate options on sweep accounts, while retaining a conservative investment option of the highest quality and safety. The balances transferred into mutual funds do not represent obligations of the company. Total deposits were $775.4 million at December 31, 2005, representing 84% of total assets. 7 Borrowings The bank is a member of the FHLB. This membership enables the bank to borrow funds from the FHLB based on the pledge of qualifying collateral balances, including one-to-four family residential loans and certain US Government and Agency securities. The company utilizes borrowings from the FHLB to fund short-term liquidity needs. This facility is an integral component of the company’s asset-liability management program. At December 31, 2005, the company had outstanding FHLB advances of $57.9 million. The company also borrows funds from customers (generally commercial and municipal customers) by entering into agreements to sell and repurchase investment securities from the company’s portfolio, with terms typically ranging from overnight to six months. These repurchase agreements represent a cost competitive funding source for the company. Interest rates paid by the company on the repurchase agreements are based on market conditions and the company’s need for additional funds at the time of the transaction. Repurchase agreements amounted to $706 thousand at December 31, 2005. Junior Subordinated Debentures In March 2000 the company organized Enterprise (MA) Capital Trust I (the “Trust”), a statutory business trust created under the laws of Delaware, in order to issue $10.5 million of 10.875% trust preferred securities that mature in 2030 and are callable beginning in 2010. The proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities were used by the Trust, along with the company’s $0.3 million capital contribution, to acquire $10.8 million in aggregate principal amount of the company’s 10.875% Junior Subordinated Debt Securities that mature in 2030 and are callable beginning in 2010. Pursuant to Financial Interpretation No. 46R, issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board in December 2003, the company excluded the Trust from current period financial statements beginning in 2003, and elected to voluntarily restate prior period financial statements for comparability purposes. This “deconsolidation” caused the company to carry its $10.8 million of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, which were issued by the company to the Trust, on the company’s financial statements as borrowings, with related interest expense, and to exclude the $10.5 million of trust preferred securities issued by the Trust, and the related non-interest expense, from its financial statements. This deconsolidation did not have a material impact on the company’s financial statements. Investment Management and Trust Group The company provides a range of investment management services to individuals, family groups, businesses, trusts, foundations, endowment funds and retirement plans. These services include: securities brokerage services through Enterprise Investment Services LLC, which provides these services through a third party service arrangement with Commonwealth Financial Network, a licensed securities brokerage firm; and management of equity, fixed income, balanced and strategic cash management portfolios through the company’s investment management and trust group. Portfolios are managed based on the individual investment objectives of each client. The company’s investment management and trust group utilizes an open-architecture, “manager of managers” approach to client investment management. Our philosophy is to identify and hire highly competitive outside mutual fund companies and investment management firms on behalf of our clients. The company performs a detailed search and due diligence review in identifying and hiring each service provider, as well as maintaining ongoing oversight and monitoring of their performance. 8 Enterprise Insurance Services Enterprise Insurance Services LLC engages in insurance sales activities through a third party arrangement with HUB International New England, LLC (“HUB”), formerly known as C.J. McCarthy Insurance Agency, Inc., a full service insurance agency, with offices in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Enterprise Insurance Services provides, through HUB, a full array of insurance products including property and casualty, employee benefits and risk-management solutions tailored to serve the specific insurance needs of businesses in a range of industries operating in the company’s market area. eCommerce Banking The company uses an in-house turn-key solution from its core banking system vendor for internet banking services for retail and commercial customers. Major internet banking capabilities include the following: balance inquiry; internal transfers; loan payments; ACH origination; federal tax payments; placement of stop payments; initiation of requests for wire transfers; access to images of checks paid; as well as access to prior period account statements. Company Website The company currently uses an outside vendor to design, support and host its internet website. The underlying structure of the site provides for dynamic maintenance of the information by company personnel. The site provides information on the company and its services, as well as providing the access point to various specified banking services and to various financial management tools. In addition, the site includes the following major capabilities: career opportunities; loan and deposit rates; calculators; an ATM/Branch Locator/Map; and shareholder and investor information, which includes a corporate governance page containing a listing of the board of directors’ committees, copies of committee charters, corporate governance guidelines and the company’s code of business conduct and ethics, among other items, and a link to the company’s SEC filings. The company makes available free of charge through a link to its SEC filings, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to these reports. The company similarly makes available all insider stock ownership and transaction reports filed with the SEC by the company’s executive officers, directors and any 10% stockholders under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Forms 3, 4 and 5). Access to all of these reports is essentially simultaneous with the SEC’s posting of these reports on its EDGAR system through the SEC website (www.SEC.gov). The company’s internet web address is: www.enterprisebanking.com. Competition The company faces strong competition to attract deposits and to generate loans. National and larger regional commercial banks have a local presence in the Merrimack Valley and North Central regions of Massachusetts and in southern New Hampshire. Numerous local savings banks, cooperative banks, credit unions and savings and loan associations have one or more offices in the company’s market area. Larger banks have certain competitive advantages over the company, including the ability to make larger loans to a single borrower than is possible for the company. The greater financial resources of larger banks also allow them to offer a broad range of automated banking services, to maintain numerous branch offices and to mount extensive advertising and promotional campaigns. Competition for loans and deposits also comes from other businesses that provide financial services, including consumer finance companies, mortgage brokers, insurance companies, securities brokerage firms, institutional mutual funds and private lenders. Advances in, and the increased use of, technology, such as Internet banking and electronic item processing, are expected to have a significant impact on the future competitive landscape confronting financial institutions. Notwithstanding the substantial competition with which the company is faced, management believes that the company has established a solid reputation within its market area. The company’s officers and directors have substantial business and personal ties in the cities and towns in which the company operates. The company believes that it has differentiated itself from competitors by providing customers, which include businesses, professionals, and consumers, with innovative, personal and highly responsive service based on management’s familiarity and understanding of such customers’ banking and investment management needs. The company’s past and continuing emphasis is to target product lines to customer needs, and to seek out and hire top professionals who understand the community and local banking environment. 9 Management actively seeks to strengthen its position, by capitalizing on the market opportunities, and the continuing pursuit of growth within existing and neighboring markets. During 2004 the company expanded into the Andover, Massachusetts and Salem, New Hampshire markets, and in July 2005, opened a second Tewksbury Massachusetts office. The company also continues to examine new products and technologies in order to maintain a competitive mix of offerings and services that can be delivered through multiple distribution channels at competitive prices. To the extent that changes in the regulation of financial services may further increase competition, these changes could result in the company paying increased interest rates to obtain deposits while receiving lower interest rates on its loans. Under such circumstances, the company’s net interest margin would decline. See also “Supervision and Regulation” below, for further discussion on how new laws and regulations may effect the company’s competitive position. Supervision and Regulation General Bank holding companies and banks are subject to extensive government regulation through federal and state statutes and related regulations, which are subject to changes that can significantly affect the way in which financial service organizations conduct business. As a general matter, regulation of the banking and financial services industries continues to undergo significant changes, some of which are intended to ease legal and regulatory restrictions while others have increased regulatory requirements. For example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the “GLB Act”) eased regulatory restrictions on consolidated companies offering diversified financial services by removing the legal barriers that formerly served to separate the banking, insurance and securities industries. The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, which reduced geographic restrictions on banking organizations by enhancing their ability to operate on a nationwide basis, is another example of federal legislation that has reduced the legal and regulatory burdens on the business activity of banks and their holding companies. Many of the more recent changes in law and regulation that have increased banks’ and financial organizations’ regulatory requirements have applied to operations relevant to the “war on terrorism” or areas affecting the interest of investors and consumers. For example the United and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (a/k/a the Patriot Act) added new provisions requirements to the Bank Secrecy Act that are intended to facilitate the prevention, detection and prosecution of international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 added new financial reporting and certification, accounting, corporate governance and internal controls requirements to the company’s ongoing federal securities law compliance obligations. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act (“FACT Act”), which amended the Fair Credit Reporting Act in 2003, requires banks and other financial firms to help deter identity theft by developing appropriate fraud response programs and giving consumers greater control over their credit data. The Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act (“Check 21”), which became effective in 2004, is designed to facilitate the automation of the nation’s check-processing system away from physical transportation of paper checks. The law allows banks to process check information electronically, and to deliver digital images of the check to banks that choose to continue to receive paper checks. Check 21 requires all banks to accept legally equivalent substitute checks in place of originals and comply with federal regulations governing the treatment of remotely created checks and electronic check conversion transactions. Currently pending legislative proposals at both the federal level and in various states would further address data breaches affecting consumer financial information and could result in the company incurring additional operational and reporting obligations on banks and their affiliates. Any future increase in the extent of regulation imposed upon the banking or financial services industries generally could result in the company incurring additional operating and compliance costs, which in turn could impede profitability. 10 To the extent that the information in this report under the heading “Supervision and Regulation” describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provision so described. Any changes in applicable laws or regulations may have a material effect on the business and prospects of the company. Regulation of the Holding Company The company is a registered bank holding company under the federal Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “Bank Holding Company Act”). It is subject to the supervision and examination of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) and files reports with the Federal Reserve Board as required under the Bank Holding Company Act. Under applicable Massachusetts’s law, the company is also subject to the supervisory jurisdiction of the Commissioner. The Bank Holding Company Act requires prior approval by the Federal Reserve Board of the acquisition by the company of substantially all the assets or more than five percent of the voting stock of any bank. The Bank Holding Company Act also authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to determine (by order or by regulation) what activities are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident of banking, and thus, whether the company, either directly or indirectly through non-bank subsidiaries, can engage in such activities. The Bank Holding Company Act prohibits the company and the bank from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit, sale of property or furnishing of services. There are also restrictions on extensions of credit and other transactions between the bank, on the one hand, and the company, or other affiliates of the bank, on the other hand. The GLB Act enhanced the authority of banks and their holding companies to engage in non-banking activities. By electing to become a “financial holding company”, a qualified parent company of a banking institution may engage, directly or through its non-bank subsidiaries, in any activity that is financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity or in any other activity that is complimentary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. A bank holding company will be able to successfully elect to be regulated as a financial holding company if all of its depository institution subsidiaries meet certain prescribed standards pertaining to management, capital adequacy and compliance with the federal Community Reinvestment Act. Financial holding companies remain subject to regulation and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board. The company believes that the bank, which is the company’s sole depository institution subsidiary, presently satisfies all of the requirements that must be met to enable the company to successfully elect to become a financial holding company. However, the company has no current intention of seeking to become a financial holding company. Such a course of action may become necessary or appropriate at some time in the future depending upon the company’s strategic plan. Regulation of the Bank As a trust company organized under Chapter 172 of the Massachusetts General Laws, the deposits of which are insured by the FDIC, the bank is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Commissioner and the FDIC. The bank is also subject to certain requirements of the Federal Reserve Board. The regulations of these agencies govern many aspects of the bank’s business, including permitted investments, the opening and closing of branches, the amount of loans which can be made to a single borrower, mergers, appointment and conduct of officers and directors, capital levels and terms of deposits. The Federal Reserve Board also requires the bank to maintain minimum reserves on its deposits. Federal and state regulators can impose sanctions on the bank and its management if the bank engages in unsafe or unsound practices or otherwise fails to comply with regulatory standards. Various other federal and state laws and regulations, such as truth-in-lending and truth-in-savings statutes, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Community Reinvestment Act, Check 21 and the FACT Act, also govern the bank’s activities and operations. Pursuant to the GLB Act, the bank may also form, subject to the approvals of the Commissioner and the FDIC, “financial subsidiaries” to engage in any activity that is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity. In order to qualify for the authority to form a financial subsidiary, the bank would be required to satisfy certain conditions, some of which are substantially similar to those that the company would be required to satisfy in order to elect to become a financial holding company. The company 11 believes that the bank would be able to satisfy all of the conditions that would be required to form a financial subsidiary, although the company has no current intention of doing so. Such a course of action may become necessary or appropriate at some time in the future depending upon the company’s strategic plan. Dividends Under Massachusetts law, the company’s board of directors is generally empowered to pay dividends on the company’s capital stock out of its net profits to the extent that the board of directors considers such payment advisable. Massachusetts banking law also imposes substantially similar standards upon the payment of dividends by the bank to the company. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”) also prohibits a bank from paying any dividends on its capital stock in the event that the bank is in default on the payment of any assessment to the FDIC or if the payment of any such dividend would otherwise cause the bank to become undercapitalized. Capital Resources Capital planning by the company and the bank considers current needs and anticipated future growth. The primary sources of capital have been the sale of common stock in 1988 and 1989, the issuance of $10.5 million of trust preferred securities in 2000 by the Trust, and retention of earnings less dividends paid since the bank commenced operations. The Company The Federal Reserve Board has adopted capital adequacy guidelines that generally require bank holding companies to maintain total capital equal to 8% of total risk-weighted assets, with at least one-half of that amount (or 4% of total risk-weighted asset) consisting of core or Tier 1 capital. Total capital for the company consists of Tier 1 capital and supplementary or Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital for the company begins with common stockholders’ equity and is reduced by certain intangible assets. In addition, trust preferred securities may compose up to 25% of the company’s Tier 1 capital (subject to certain limitations and with any excess allocable to Tier 2 capital). Supplementary capital for the company is comprised solely of a portion of the allowance for loan losses. Assets are adjusted under the risk-based capital guidelines to take into account different levels of credit risk, for example, cash and government securities are placed in a 0% risk category (requiring no additional capital), most home mortgage loans are placed in a 50% risk category, and the bulk of assets that, by their nature in the ordinary course of business, pose a direct credit risk to a bank holding company, including commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans and consumer loans, are placed in a 100% risk category. In addition to the risk-based capital requirements, the Federal Reserve Board requires bank holding companies to maintain a minimum “leverage” ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average total assets of 4% (3% percent if given the highest regulatory rating and not experiencing significant growth). The Bank The bank is subject to separate capital adequacy requirements of the FDIC, which are substantially similar to the requirements of the Federal Reserve Board applicable to the company. However, trust preferred proceeds contributed to the bank from the company are included in Tier 1 capital of the bank without limitation. The company contributed $10.3 million of proceeds from the sale of these securities to the bank. Under the FDIC requirements, the minimum total capital requirement is 8% of total assets and certain off-balance sheet items, weighted by risk. At least 4% of the total 8% ratio must consist of Tier 1 capital (primarily common equity including retained earnings) and the remainder may consist of subordinated debt, cumulative preferred stock and a limited amount of loan loss reserves. At the bank level, as at the company level on a consolidated basis, certain intangible assets are deducted from Tier 1 capital in calculating regulatory capital ratios. Under the applicable FDIC capital requirements, the bank is also required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio. The ratio is determined by dividing Tier 1 capital by quarterly average total assets, less intangible assets and other adjustments. FDIC rules require a minimum of 3% for the highest rated banks. Banks experiencing high growth rates are expected to maintain capital positions well above minimum levels. Depository institutions, such as the bank, are also subject to the prompt corrective action framework for capital adequacy established by FDICIA. Under FDICIA, the federal banking regulators are required to take prompt supervisory and regulatory actions against 12 undercapitalized depository institutions. FDICIA establishes five capital categories: “well capitalized”, “adequately capitalized”, “undercapitalized”, “significantly undercapitalized”, and “critically undercapitalized”. A “well capitalized” institution has a total capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 6%, a leverage ratio of at least 5% and is not subject to any written order, agreement or directive; an “adequately capitalized” institution has a total capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 4%, and a leverage ratio of at least 4% (3% percent if given the highest regulatory rating and not experiencing significant growth), but does not qualify as “well capitalized”. An “undercapitalized” institution fails to meet one of the three minimum capital requirements. A “significantly undercapitalized” institution has a total capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of less than 6%, a Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of less than 3%, and a leverage ratio of less than 3%. A “critically undercapitalized” institution has a ratio of tangible equity to assets of 2%, or less. Under certain circumstances, a “well capitalized”, “adequately capitalized” or “undercapitalized” institution may be required to comply with supervisory actions as if the institution were in the next lowest category. Failure to meet applicable minimum capital requirements, including a depository institution being classified as less than “adequately capitalized” within FDICIA’s prompt corrective action framework, may subject a bank holding company or its subsidiary depository institution(s) to various enforcement actions, including substantial restrictions on operations and activities, dividend limitations, issuance of a directive to increase capital and, for a depository institution, termination of deposit insurance and the appointment of a conservator or receiver. Patents, Trademarks, etc. The company holds no patents, registered trademarks, licenses (other than licenses required to be obtained from appropriate banking regulatory agencies), franchises or concessions which are material to its business. Employees At December 31, 2005, the company employed 269 full-time equivalent employees, including 96 officers. None of the company’s employees are presently represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Management believes its employee relations to be excellent. 13 Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the company’s common stock is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the company are described below. These risks and uncertainties are not listed in any particular order of priority and are not necessarily the only ones facing the company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the company’s business and results of operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the company’s common stock could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose some or all of their investment. The Company is Subject to Interest Rate Risk The company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income, meaning the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the company’s control. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, under the heading “Opportunities and Risks”, and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”, for further discussions related to the company’s management of interest rate risk. The Company is Subject to Lending Risk There are inherent risks associated with the company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the market areas in which the company operates. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. As of December 31, 2005, the company’s loan portfolio consisted primarily of commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and construction loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Any significant deterioration in the company’s commercial loan portfolio could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the discussion under the heading “Loans” included in the section entitled “Financial Condition”, which is contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, for further information regarding the company’s commercial loan portfolio. The Company’s Allowance for Loan Losses May Be Insufficient The company maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to earnings that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the company’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of the company’s management. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, depending upon the magnitude of the changes, could have a 14 material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the discussions under the heading “Allowance for Loan Losses” included in both the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section and the “Financial Condition” section of Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, for further information regarding the process by which the company determines the appropriate level of its allowance for loan losses. The Company’s Profitability Depends Significantly on Economic Conditions in the Company’s Primary Market Areas The company’s success depends principally on the general economic conditions of the primary market areas in which the company operates. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the company’s products and services as well as the ability of the company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the company’s deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Operates in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area The company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have more financial resources than the company. These competitors include not only national, regional, and other community banks, but also various types of other non-bank financial institutions, such as credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. See the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1, “Business”, for additional information regarding the competitive issues facing the company. The Company is Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision The company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not the interests of shareholders. These regulations affect the company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Changes to federal or state statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of existing statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the company in substantial and unpredictable ways, including subjecting the company to additional costs, limiting the types of financial services and products the company may offer and/or increasing competition from other non-bank providers of financial services. See the section entitled “Supervision and Regulation” contained in Item 1, “Business”, for additional information regarding the supervisory and regulatory issues facing the company. The Company’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates the company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company Relies on Dividends From the Bank for Substantially All of its Revenue The company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the bank. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid by the bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds used to pay dividends on the company’s common stock and interest and principal on the company’s subordinated debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank may pay to the company. If the bank is unable to pay dividends to the company, then the company will be unable to service 15 debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the company’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the bank could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Slower than Expected Growth in New Branches and New Products and Services Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Profitability The company has placed a strategic emphasis on expanding its branch network and product and service offerings. Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth both in new branches and new products and services. New branches and new products and services require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources. Lower than expected loan and deposit growth in new branches and/or lower than expected fee or other income from new products and services could decrease anticipated revenues and net income generated by such investments. Opening new branches and introducing new products and services could also divert resources from current core operations and thereby further adversely affect the company’s growth and profitability. Increased Reliance on Borrowings as a Source of Funds Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Profitability The company has traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a lower cost source of funds than borrowings, because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as result of competitive pressures, market interest rates, general economic conditions or other events, the balance of the company’s deposits decreases relative to the company’s overall banking operations, the company may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future. Any such increased reliance on borrowings could have a negative impact on the company’s net interest income and, consequently, on its results of operations and financial condition. The Company May Not be Able to Attract and Retain Key Personnel The company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the company can be intense and the company may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that it depends upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Company’s Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security The company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business and to provide internet banking services to its customers. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the company’s information systems could damage the company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the company to additional regulatory scrutiny, and expose the company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s Relies on Independent Service Providers The company relies on independent firms to provide key services necessary to conducting its business. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the independent firms’ systems or in their delivery of services, could result in a loss of customer business, could damage the company’s reputation and expose the company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Continually Encounters Technological Change The banking industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Many of the company’s competitors have substantially 16 greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the banking industry could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business and, in turn, the company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Trading Volume in the Company’s Common Stock is Less Than That of Larger Companies Although the company’s common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market, such listing has been in effect for only slightly more than a year and the trading volume in the company’s common stock is substantially less than that of larger companies. Given the lower trading volume of the company’s common stock, significant purchases or sales of the company’s common stock, or the expectation of such purchases or sales, could cause significant swings up or down in the company’s stock price. The Company’s Articles Of Organization, By-Laws and Shareholders Rights Plan as Well as Certain Banking Laws May Have an Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of the company’s articles of organization and by-laws, its shareholders rights plan and certain federal and state banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the company’s shareholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the company’s common stock. Additional Factors Described Elsewhere in This Report In addition to the factors listed above in this section, additional important factors that could adversely affect the results of the company’s future operations are described under the heading “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 