Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. These risks and uncertainties are not listed in any particular order of priority and are not necessarily the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business and results of operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose some or all of their investment. The Company’s Profitability Depends Significantly on Economic Conditions in the Company’s Primary Market Areas The Company’s success depends principally on the general economic conditions of the primary market areas in which the Company operates. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services as well as the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company’s deposit funding sources. The global economic crisis showed signs of stabilizing beginning in the second half of 2009, with partial recovery in many national financial markets; however the country is still experiencing high levels of unemployment, weakened residential and commercial real estate markets, and historically low interest rates. Although the current U.S. recession has not impacted the New England region as severely as many regions of the country, and the effect on the local economy has lagged the rest of the country, any long-term continuation of these national and global trends, or deterioration of the recovery progress, as well as any possible subsequent effects of these trends, could further weaken the regional economy and have long-term adverse consequences on local industries, employment levels, foreclosure rates and commercial real estate values which could negatively impact the Company’s financial condition, capital position, liquidity, and performance in a variety of ways. Potential adverse effects on the Company could include: continued downward pressure on its net interest margin; deterioration in its asset quality; a decline in the underlying values of commercial real estate collateral; an increased level of loan delinquencies; an increase in the level of its allowance for loan losses; a decline in the value of its investment portfolio; unanticipated charges against capital; funding sources may become restricted thereby impacting the Company’s ability to meet cash needs; and a decline in the market price of the Company’s common stock. In addition to the consequences of the current economic recession, any significant and sustained decline in general economic conditions caused by acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, market interest rate changes, or other factors, could also impact local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is Subject to Lending Risk There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in the economic conditions in the market areas in which the Company operates and changes in interest rates. Weakening of economic conditions within the Company’s market area or increases in interest rates could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. 16 Table of Contents The Company’s loan portfolio consists primarily of commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and construction loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than owner-occupied residential real estate loans or consumer loans, and are also of typically larger balances. The underlying commercial real estate values, the actual costs necessary to complete a construction project, or customer cash flow and payment expectations on such loans can be more easily influenced by adverse conditions in the related industries, the real estate market or in the economy in general. Any significant deterioration in the credit quality of the commercial loan portfolio or underlying collateral values could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the discussions contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, under the headings “Loans” and “Credit Risk/Asset Quality” included in the section entitled “Financial Condition”, for further information regarding the Company’s commercial loan portfolio and credit risk. The Company May Need to Increase the Allowance for Loan Losses The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is established through a provision for loan losses charged to earnings that represents management’s estimate of probable losses inherent within the existing portfolio of loans. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that differ from those of the Company’s management. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, depending upon the magnitude of the changes, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the discussions contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, under the heading “Allowance for Loan Losses”, which is contained in the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section and under the headings “Credit Risk/Asset Quality” and “Allowance for Loan Losses”, included in the section entitled “Financial Condition”, for further information regarding the process by which the Company determines the appropriate level of its allowance for loan losses. The Company’s Investment Portfolio Could Incur Losses There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s investment activities. These risks include the impact of changes in interest rates, weakness in the real estate or other industries, adverse changes in regional or national economic conditions, and general turbulence in domestic and foreign financial markets, among other things. These conditions could adversely impact the fair market value and the ultimate collectability of the Company’s investments. Management regularly reviews the portfolio for securities with unrealized losses that are other than temporarily impaired. In addition to fair market value impairment, carrying values may be adversely impacted due to a fundamental deterioration of the individual municipality or government agency whose debt obligations the Company owns or of the individual company or fund in which the Company has invested. At December 31, 2009, approximately 91% of the Company’s investment portfolio, or $126 million, was invested in obligations issued by federal government agencies, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, or municipal government entities, while 7%, or $9.7 million, was invested in equity securities, including $4.7 million in FHLB stock. If an investment’s value is deemed other than temporarily impaired, then the Company is required to write down the carrying value of the investment which may involve a charge to earnings. The determination of the level of other-than-temporary impairment involves a high degree of judgment and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current market risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Any OTTI 17 Table of Contents charges, depending upon the magnitude of the charges, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. As a member of the FHLB, the Company is required to purchase certain levels of FHLB capital stock in association with the Bank’s borrowing relationship from the FHLB. The FHLB is currently operating with retained earnings below its target level. The FHLB has instituted a plan to increase retained earnings which includes suspending its quarterly dividend and a moratorium on the repurchase of excess capital stock from member banks, among other programs. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s investment in FHLB capital stock amounted to $4.7 million. If further deterioration in the FHLB financial condition or capital levels occurs, the FHLB capital stock may become other than temporarily impaired to some degree. Additionally, if as a result of deterioration in its financial condition the FHLB restricts its lending activities, the Company may need to seek alternative funding sources to meet its liquidity needs. See also the discussion contained in this Item 1A under the heading “Sources of External Funding May Become Restricted and Impact the Company’s Liquidity.” See the discussions contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, under the heading “Impairment Review of Securities”, which is contained in the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section, and under the heading “Investment Securities”, included in the section entitled “Financial Condition”, for further information regarding the process by which the Company determines the level of other-than-temporary impairment. The Company is Subject to Interest Rate Risk The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income, meaning the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including monetary policy of the federal government, inflation and deflation, volatility of financial and credit markets, and competition. If the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”, for further discussions related to the Company’s management of interest rate risk. Sources of External Funding Could Become Restricted and Impact the Company’s Liquidity The Company’s external funding sources include borrowing capacity in the brokered CD market, at the FHLB and FRB, and through federal fund purchase arrangements with correspondent banks, as well as accessing the public equity market through an offering of the Company’s stock. The Company has in the past also issued junior subordinated debentures through a “pooled” trust preferred offering, which was a common means of raising capital used by many community banks prior to the “freeze up” of the public capital markets that preceded the recent global economic crisis. If, as a result of general economic conditions or other events, these sources of external funding withdraw (as occurred in the case of the pooled trust preferred market) or limit the Company’s external funding capacity, the Company may not be able to raise adequate funds or may incur substantially higher cost or operating restrictions in order to raise necessary funds elsewhere. Any such increase in funding cost or restrictions could have a negative impact on the Company’s net interest income and, consequently, on its results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Increased Reliance on Borrowings and Brokered CD’s as Sources of Funds Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Profitability The Company has traditionally funded asset growth principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are typically a lower cost source of funds than external wholesale funding (brokered CD’s or borrowings), because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for wholesale funding (notwithstanding the recent declines in overnight borrowing rates). If, as a result of competitive pressures, market interest rates, general economic conditions or other events, the balance of the Company’s deposits decreases relative to the Company’s overall banking operations, the Company may have to rely more heavily on wholesale funding in the future. Any such increased reliance on wholesale funding could have a negative impact on the Company’s net interest income and, consequently, on its results of operations and financial condition. The Use of Independent Investment Research Firms Expose the Company to Additional Risk The Company relies on outside investment research and due diligence information, that is provided by several professional independent investment research firms, in selecting both independent management firms and individual securities for the Company’s investment advisory clients. These firms are subject to a variety of risk and uncertainties, including significant exposures to changes in financial market conditions and poor investment decisions, turnover in key personnel, internal and external securities fraud, information security or data breach, and financial losses, among others, any of which could in turn expose the Company itself to various risks. The risks to the Company include but are not limited to, the loss of customer business, damage to the Company’s reputation, exposure of the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, and a reduction in fee income, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s Capital Levels Could Fall Below Regulatory Minimums The Company and the Bank are both subject to the capital adequacy guidelines of the FRB and FDIC, respectively. Failure to meet applicable minimum capital ratio requirements may subject the Company and/or the Bank to various enforcement actions. If the Company experiences rapid asset growth, or if capital levels decline due to: possible future net operating losses; impairment charges against tangible or intangible assets; adjustments to retained earnings due to changes in accounting rules; among other things, and if the Company is unable to raise additional capital to offset theses charges, capital ratios may fall below regulatory capital adequacy levels. See the section entitled “Capital Resources” contained in Item 1, “Business”, for additional information regarding regulatory capital requirement for the Company and the Bank. The Company is Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision The Company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not the interests of shareholders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Federal and state statutes and related regulations, including tax policy and corporate governance rules, can significantly affect the way in which bank holding companies, and public companies in general, conduct business. Changes to federal or state statutes, regulations or regulatory and tax policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of existing statutes, regulations or policies, or new laws or regulation aimed at addressing the perceived causes of the recent financial crisis could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways, including subjecting the Company to additional operating, governance and compliance costs, increasing the Company’s deposit insurance premiums, limiting the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increasing competition from other non-bank providers of financial services. 19 Table of Contents See the section entitled “Supervision and Regulation” contained in Item 1, “Business”, for additional information regarding the supervisory and regulatory issues facing the Company. The Company Operates in a Competitive Industry and Market Area The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, several of which are larger and have more financial resources than the Company. Competitors within the Company’s market area include not only national, regional, and other community banks, but also various types of other non-bank financial institutions, including credit unions, consumer finance companies, mortgage brokers, private lenders, insurance companies, securities brokerage firms, institutional mutual funds, registered investment advisors, internet based banks and other financial intermediaries. See the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1, “Business”, for additional information regarding the competitive issues facing the Company. Failure to Keep Pace With Technological Change Could Affect the Company’s Profitability The banking industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the banking industry could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s Information Systems Could Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could disrupt the Company’s ability to conduct business and process transactions, result in a loss of customer business, expose customers’ personal information to unauthorized parties, damage the Company’s reputation, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, and expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the discussion under the heading “Opportunities and Risks” included in the section entitled “Overview”, which is contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, for further information regarding the Company’s information security and technology practices. Interruption of Service or Breach in Security at Independent Service Providers Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business The Company relies on independent firms to provide key services necessary to conducting its business. These services include, but are not limited to: electronic funds delivery networks; check clearing houses; electronic banking services; investment advisory, management and custodial services; correspondent banking services; information security assessments; and loan underwriting and review services. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the independent firms’ systems or in their delivery of services, could result in a loss of customer business, expose customers’ personal information to unauthorized parties, damage the Company’s reputation and expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents The Company’s Controls and Procedures Could Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, corporate governance policies and procedures and security controls to prevent and detect theft and fraud. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could result regulatory actions against the Company, financial loss, damage the Company’s reputation, cause a loss of customer business, and expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s May Experience a Prolonged Interruption in Ability to Conduct Business The Company relies heavily on its personnel, facilities and information systems to conduct its business. A material loss of people, core operating facilities or access to information systems could result in an interruption in customer services and ability to conduct transactions, loss of customer business and damage the reputation of the Company, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the discussion under the heading “Opportunities and Risks” included in the section entitled “Overview”, which is contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, for further information regarding the Company’s Business Continuity Plan. The Company May Not be Able to Attract and Retain Key Personnel The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense and the Company may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that it depends upon for success. The unexpected loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Slower than Expected Growth in New Branches Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Profitability The Company has placed a strategic emphasis on expanding the Bank’s branch network. Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth in new branches or new geographic market areas. New branches and new products and services require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources. Lower than expected loan and deposit growth in new branches and/or lower than expected fee or other income generated from new branches could decrease anticipated revenues and net income generated by such investments. In addition, new branches require the approval of various regulatory agencies, which may or may not approve the Company’s application for a branch. Opening new branches in existing markets or new market areas could also divert resources from current core operations and thereby further adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability. Growth Strategies Involving Acquisitions Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Profitability The Company may in the future explore growth opportunities through acquisition of other banks, financial services companies or lines of business. Any future acquisition could adversely affect the Company’s profitability based on management’s ability to successfully complete the acquisition and integration of the acquired business. 21 Table of Contents The Trading Volume in the Company’s Common Stock is Less Than That of Larger Companies Although the Company’s common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume in the Company’s common stock is substantially less than that of larger companies. Given the lower trading volume of the Company’s common stock, significant purchases or sales of the Company’s common stock, or the expectation of such purchases or sales, could cause significant swings up or down in the Company’s stock price. The Market Price of the Company’s Common Stock Could be Affected by General Industry Issues The banking industry may be more affected than other industries by certain economic, credit, regulatory or information security issues. Although the Company itself may or may not be directly impacted by such issues, the Company’s stock price may swing up or down due to the influence, both real and perceived, of these issues, among others, on the banking industry in general. The Carrying Value of the Company’s Goodwill Could Become Impaired In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the Company does not amortize goodwill and instead, at least annually, evaluates whether the carrying value of goodwill has become impaired. Impairment of the goodwill may occur when the estimated fair value of the Company is less than its recorded book value (i.e., the net book value of its recorded assets and liabilities). A determination that goodwill has become impaired results in an immediate write-down of goodwill to its determined value with a resulting charge to operations. If the estimated fair value of the Company declines due to changes in the assumptions and input used in management’s estimate of the fair value, the carrying value of the Company’s goodwill may become impaired. Any write down of goodwill will result in a decrease in net income and, depending upon the magnitude of the charge, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the discussions contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, under the heading “Impairment Review of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, which is contained in the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section, for further information regarding the process by which the Company determines whether an impairment of goodwill has occurred. Shareholder Dilution Could Occur if Additional Stock is Issued in the Future If the Company’s Board of Directors should determine in the future that there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of the Company’s common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock, such issuances could result in dilution to existing shareholders’ ownership interest. Similarly, if the Board of Directors decides to grant additional restricted stock shares or options for the purchase of shares of common stock, the issuance of such additional restricted stock shares and/or the issuance of additional shares upon the exercise of such options may expose shareholders to dilution. The Company’s Articles Of Organization, By-Laws and Shareholders Rights Plan as Well as Certain Banking and Corporate Laws Could Have an Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of the Company’s articles of organization and by-laws, its shareholders rights plan and certain federal and state banking laws and state corporate laws, including regulatory approval requirements for any acquisition of control of the Company, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the Company’s shareholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination involving an acquisition of the Company, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. 22 Table of Contents Directors and Executive Officers Own a Significant Portion of Common Stock The Company’s directors and executive officers as a group beneficially own approximately 29% of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2009. As a result of this combined ownership interest, the directors and executive officers have the ability, if they vote their shares in a like manner, to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. The Company Relies on Dividends from the Bank for Substantially All of its Revenue The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid by the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds used to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock and interest and principal on the Company’s subordinated debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, then the Company will be unable to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. The Bank’s inability to pay dividends could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See the discussion under the heading “Dividends” which is contained in Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” below. Additional Factors Described Elsewhere in This Report In addition to the factors listed above in this section, additional important factors that could adversely affect the results of the Company’s future operations are described below under the heading “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents Item 