ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) provides a “safe harbor” for “forward-looking statements” to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as such information is 12 Table of Contents identified as forward-looking and is accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statement(s). Ingram Micro desires to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Act. Our periodic and current reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, periodic press releases, and other public documents and statements, may contain forward-looking statements. In addition, our representatives may participate in speeches and calls with market analysts; conferences, meetings and calls with investors and potential investors in our securities; and other meetings and conferences. Some of the information presented in these calls, meetings and conferences may also be forward-looking. We disclaim any duty to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Described below and throughout this report are certain risks that could affect our business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating your investment in our company because these factors could cause our actual results and conditions to differ materially from our historical performance or those projected in our forward-looking statements. Before you invest in our company, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. The risks that have been highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISK FACTORS Our acquisition and investment strategies may not produce the expected benefits, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions or investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support key business initiatives. Acquisitions and investments involve risks and uncertainties, some of which may differ from those associated with our historical operations. For example, in 2012 we acquired BrightPoint, a global leader in mobile device lifecycle services; Aptec, a Dubai-based value-added distributor in the Middle East and Africa, with products and solutions covering data center, storage, security, networking and software categories, including technical services; and Promark, a value-added distributor in the U.S. with a core technology focus on data storage, data management and electronic document imaging products and services. We also initiated new business operations in Colombia and exited our Argentina business. Significant risks and uncertainties related to our acquisition and investment strategies which could materially and adversely affect our financial performance include the following: • distraction of management’s attention away from normal business operations while coordinating and integrating a geographically dispersed organization; • insufficient profit generation to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy; • inability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses, which may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than anticipated, including inability to retain key employees, difficulties with integrating different business systems and technology platforms and consolidating corporate, administrative, technological and operational infrastructures; • inability to preserve our and the acquired company’s customer, supplier and other important relationships; • inability to adapt to challenges of new markets, including geographies, products and services, or to identify new profitable business opportunities from expansion of existing products or services; • inability to adequately bridge possible differences in cultures and management philosophies; • exposure to new regulations, such as those relating to U.S. federal government procurement regulations, those in new geographies or those applicable to new products or services; 13 Table of Contents • substantial increases in our debt; and • issues not discovered in our due diligence process. In addition, we may divest business units that do not meet our strategic, financial and/or risk tolerance objectives. No assurance can be given that we will be able to dispose of business units on favorable terms or without significant costs. We are dependent on a variety of information systems, which, if not properly functioning and available, or if we experience system security breaches, data protection breaches, or other cyber-attacks, could adversely disrupt our business and harm our reputation and net sales. We depend on a variety of information systems for our operations, many of which are proprietary, which have historically supported many of our business operations such as inventory and order management, shipping, receiving, and accounting. Because most of our information systems consist of a number of internally developed applications, it can be more difficult to upgrade or adapt them compared to commercially available software solutions. We are currently in the process of migrating our operations from our legacy proprietary system that was developed in the late-1980s to SAP in a phased, country-by-country approach over the next several years. We have deployed SAP in several operations in Asia-Pacific, Europe and Latin America, as well as SAP financial modules in North America since our first deployment in 2009. Due to challenges in our earlier round of implementations, we have chosen to slow down our deployment schedule in order to ensure the effectiveness and stability of upgrades already completed and apply what we have learned to subsequent implementations. We are continuing to evaluate our schedule for deploying the enterprise system in additional locations. While we will adjust the deployment schedule as required to best serve our customers, we can make no assurances that we will not have disruptions, delays and/or negative business impacts from forthcoming deployments. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the new ERP system, or in the performance of our legacy systems could adversely affect our ability to effectively run and manage our business and potentially our customers’ ability to access our price and product availability information or place orders. Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. We may also be limited in our ability to integrate any new business that we may acquire. If our information systems do not allow us to transmit accurate information, even for a short period of time, to key decision makers, the ability to manage our business could be disrupted and the results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could impact our ability to perform necessary business operations, which could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business, results of operations and financial condition. We also rely on the Internet for a significant percentage of our orders and information exchanges with our customers. The Internet, in general, and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions, slowdowns and security breaches, some of which were caused by organized attacks. To date, we do not believe that our website and systems have experienced any material breakdowns, disruptions or breaches in security; however, we cannot assure that this will not occur in the future. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, this could harm our relationships with our customers, suppliers or associates; impair our order processing; or more generally prevent our customers and suppliers from accessing information, which could cause us to lose business. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere 14 Table of Contents with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, distribution or other critical functions. We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. In addition, we routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data for our partners, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. Such breaches, costs and consequences could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in macroeconomic conditions can affect our business and results of operations. Our revenues, profitability, financial position and cash flows, are highly dependent on the broader movements of the macroeconomic environment. For example, our results of operations have been and continue to be adversely affected by the difficult conditions experienced in the global economy in recent periods. Economic weakness and uncertainty, including the ongoing macroeconomic challenges in many countries globally and the debt crisis in certain countries in the European Union, have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, margins and earnings; difficulty managing inventory levels and collecting customer receivables; decreased availability of trade credit from suppliers or decreased capital availability through debt and similar financing from external parties. In addition, sustained uncertainty about current global economic conditions, continued negative economic trends or instability, or another recession, may negatively impact our business, leading to: • reduced demand for products in general; • more intense competition, which may lead to loss of sales and/or market share; • reduced prices, and lower gross margin; • loss of vendor rebates; • extended payment terms with customers; • increased bad debt risks; • shorter payment terms with vendors; • reduced access to liquidity and higher financing and interest costs; • increased currency volatility making hedging more expensive and more difficult to obtain; and • increased inventory losses related to obsolescence and/or excess quantities. Each of these factors, individually or in the aggregate, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The economic downturn may also lead us to take additional restructuring actions and reduce associated expenses in response to the lower sales volume. We may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion to remain competitive, which may cause our profitability to suffer. Our European operations contributed 28% to our net revenue in 2012. The European Union is currently in a prolonged period of economic uncertainty. Policy disagreement between countries regarding challenges such as fiscal and financial risk sharing have become more pronounced. If a member nation of the European Union were to default on its national debt, the resulting financial turmoil could disrupt liquidity markets and materially hamper our or our business partners’ ability to access capital and materially adversely affect our business and 15 Table of Contents financial results. Other income and expense could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, hedging expenses and the fair value of derivative instruments. Failure to retain and recruit key personnel would harm our ability to meet key objectives. Because of the nature of our business, which includes a high volume of transactions, business complexity, wide geographical coverage, and broad scope of products, suppliers, and customers, we are highly dependent on our ability to retain the services of our key management, sales, IT, operational, and finance personnel. Our continued success is also dependent upon our ability to retain and recruit other qualified employees, including highly skilled technical, managerial, and marketing personnel, to meet our needs. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we have, from time to time, reduced our personnel levels in various geographies and functions, in response to economic, business and other factors, through our restructuring and outsourcing activities. These reductions could negatively impact our relationships with our workforce, or make hiring other employees more difficult. In addition, failure to meet performance targets for the company may result in reduced levels of incentive compensation, which may affect our ability to retain key personnel. Additionally, changes in our workforce, including those resulting from government regulations, collective bargaining agreements or the availability of qualified personnel, could disrupt operations or increase our operating cost structure. Our failure to adequately adapt to industry changes could negatively impact our future operating results. The technology and mobility products industry is subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced product specification requirements, evolving industry standards and changes in the way technology products are distributed and/or managed. We have been and will continue to be dependent on innovations in hardware, software and services offerings, as well as the acceptance of those innovations by customers. A decrease in the rate of innovation, or the lack of acceptance of innovations by customers, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. Suppliers may also give us limited or no access to new products being introduced. Changes may cause inventory in stock to decline substantially in value or to become obsolete, regardless of the general economic environment. Although it is the policy of many suppliers of products to offer distributors like us, who purchase directly from them, limited protection from the loss in value of inventory due to technological change or such suppliers’ price reductions (“price protection”), if major suppliers decrease the availability of price protection to us, such a change in policy could lower our gross margins on products we sell or cause us to record inventory write-downs. In addition, suppliers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their protection obligations to us. We offer no assurance that price protection will continue, that unforeseen new product developments will not adversely affect us, or that we will successfully manage our existing and future inventories. Significant changes in supplier terms, such as higher thresholds on sales volume before distributors may qualify for discounts and/or rebates, the overall reduction in the amount of incentives available, reduction or termination of price protection, return levels, or other inventory management programs, or reductions in payment terms or trade credit, or vendor-supported credit programs, may adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Finally, if we were not able to adequately adapt to the emergence of alternative means of distribution for software and hardware, such as site licenses, electronic distribution and cloud computing, our future operating results could be adversely affected. We continually experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. Our competitors include local, regional, national, and international distributors, as well as suppliers that employ a direct-sales model. As a result of intense price competition in the IT and mobility products and services distribution industry, our gross margins have historically been narrow and we expect them to continue to be 16 Table of Contents narrow in the future. In addition, when there is overcapacity in our industry, our competitors may reduce their prices in response to this overcapacity. The competitive landscape has also experienced a consolidation among suppliers and customers and this trend is expected to continue, which could result in a reduction or elimination of promotional activities by the remaining suppliers or customers as they seek to reduce their expenditures, which could, in turn, result in decreased demand from end-users and our reseller customers for our products or services. Additionally, the past several years have witnessed a consolidation within the mobile operator community, and this trend is expected to continue. This trend could result in a reduction or elimination of promotional activities by the remaining mobile operators as they seek to reduce their expenditures, which could, in turn, result in decreased demand for our products or services. Moreover, consolidation of mobile operators reduces the number of potential contracts available to us and other providers of logistic services. We could also lose business or face price pressures if mobile operators that are our customers are acquired by other mobile operators that are our customers or not our customers. We offer no assurance that we will not lose market share, or that we will not be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to the actions of our competitors and thereby experience a reduction in our gross margins. Furthermore, to remain competitive we may be forced to offer more credit or extended payment terms to our customers. This could increase our required capital, financing costs, and the amount of our bad debt expenses. We have also initiated and expect to continue to initiate other business activities and may face competition from companies with more experience and/or from new entrants in those markets. As we enter new areas of business or geographies, or we expand our offerings of new products or vendors, we may encounter increased competition from current competitors and/or from new competitors, some of which may be our current customers or suppliers, which may negatively impact our sales or profitability. We operate a global business that exposes us to risks associated with conducting business in multiple jurisdictions. Sales outside the United States made up approximately 62% of our net revenue in 2012. In addition, an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets, including China and India. As a result, our future operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected by risks associated with conducting business in multiple jurisdictions, including, but not limited to, the following: • trade protection laws, policies and measures; • import and export duties, customs levies and value-added taxes; • compliance with foreign and domestic import and export regulations and anticorruption laws, including the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or similar laws of other jurisdictions for our business activities outside the U.S., the violation of which could result in severe penalties including monetary fines, criminal proceedings and suspension of export privileges; • managing compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and prohibitions, including compliance with local laws and regulations that differ or are conflicting among jurisdictions; • environmental laws and regulations, such as those relating to product disposal; • differing employment practices and labor issues; • political instability, terrorism and potential military conflicts or civilian unrest; economic instability in a specific country or region; • earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions in a region or specific country; 17 Table of Contents • complex and changing tax laws and regulations in various jurisdictions; • potential restrictions on our ability to repatriate funds from our foreign subsidiaries; and • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. The potential criminal penalties for violations of export regulations and anti-corruption laws, particularly the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, data privacy laws and environmental laws and regulations in many jurisdictions, create heightened risks for our international operations. In the event that a governing regulatory body determined that we have violated applicable export regulations or anti-corruption laws, we could be fined significant sums, incur sizable legal defense costs and/or our export capabilities could be restricted, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business and reputation. Additionally, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to new and increasingly complex U.S. and other local government regulations that affect our operations in the U.S. and globally. These regulations could result in increased costs to implement processes necessary to comply or such compliance could result in the reduction of the level of business we can effectively process. While we have and will continue to adopt measures designed to promote compliance with these laws, we cannot assure you that such measures will be adequate or that our business will not be materially and adversely impacted in the event of an alleged violation. We are also exposed to market risk primarily related to foreign currencies and interest rates. In particular, we are exposed to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currency in which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased, including devaluation and revaluation of local currencies. Since more than half of our sales are from countries outside of the United States, other currencies, including, but not limited to, the euro, British pound, Chinese yuan, Indian rupee, Australian dollar, Mexican peso, and Brazilian real, can have an impact on Ingram Micro’s results (expressed in U.S. dollars). In particular, the uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain European countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations and the related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro and other European currencies to fluctuate. Currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. For example, in the event that one or more European countries were to replace the euro with another currency, Ingram Micro’s sales into such countries, or into Europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. Accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, most notably the strengthening of the dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States. We have managed our exposure to fluctuations in the value of currencies and interest rates using a variety of financial instruments entered into with financial institutions. Although we believe that our exposures are appropriately diversified across counterparties and that, through our ongoing monitoring procedures, these counterparties are creditworthy financial institutions, we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by these counterparties. In addition, our hedging activities may not offset fully any adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations, which could affect our financial results. Terminations of a supply or services agreement or a significant change in supplier terms or conditions of sale could negatively affect our operating margins, revenue or the level of capital required to fund our operations. A significant percentage of our net sales relates to products sold to us by relatively few suppliers. As a result of such concentration risk, terminations of supply or services agreements, or a significant change in the terms or conditions of sale from one or more of our more significant partners, or bankruptcy or closure of business by one or more of our more significant partners could negatively affect our operating margins, revenues or the level of capital required to fund our operations. Our suppliers have the ability to make, and in the past have 18 Table of Contents made, rapid and significantly adverse changes in their sales terms and conditions, such as reducing the amount of price protection and return rights as well as reducing the level of purchase discounts and rebates they make available to us. In most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with suppliers. In certain product categories, such as systems, limited price protection or return rights offered by suppliers may have a bearing on the amount of product we may be willing to stock. We expect restrictive supplier terms and conditions to continue in the foreseeable future. Our inability to pass through to our customers the impact of these changes, as well as our failure to develop systems to manage ongoing supplier programs, could cause us to record inventory write-downs or other losses and could have a negative impact on our gross margins. We receive purchase discounts and rebates from suppliers based on various factors, including sales or purchase volume, breadth of customers and achievement of other goals set by the vendors. These purchase discounts and rebates may affect gross margins. Many purchase discounts from suppliers are based on percentage increases in sales of products. Our operating results could be negatively impacted if these rebates or discounts are reduced or eliminated or if our vendors significantly increase the complexity of process and costs for us to receive such rebates. Our ability to obtain particular products or product lines in the required quantities and to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is critical to our success. The IT industry experiences significant product supply shortages and customer order backlogs from time to time due to the inability of certain suppliers to supply certain products on a timely basis. As a result, we have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, short-term shortages of specific products, which can in turn have significant impacts on pricing of such products. In addition, suppliers who currently distribute their products through us may decide to shift to or substantially increase their existing distribution, through other distributors, their own dealer networks, or directly to resellers or end-users. Suppliers have, from time to time, made efforts to reduce the number of distributors with which they do business. This could result in more intense competition as distributors strive to secure distribution rights with these vendors, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. If suppliers are not able to provide us with an adequate supply of products to fulfill our customer orders on a timely basis or we cannot otherwise obtain particular products or a product line or suppliers substantially increase their existing distribution through other distributors, their own dealer networks, or directly to resellers, our reputation, sales and profitability may suffer. Substantial defaults by our customers or the loss of significant customers could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. As is customary in many industries, we extend credit to our customers for a significant portion of our net sales. Customers have a period of time, generally 30 to 45 days after date of invoice, to make payment. We are subject to the risk that our customers will not pay for the products they have purchased. The risk that we may be unable to collect on receivables may increase if our customers experience decreases in demand for their products and services or otherwise become less stable, due to adverse economic conditions. If there is a substantial deterioration in the collectability of our receivables or if we cannot obtain credit insurance at reasonable rates, are unable to collect under existing credit insurance policies, or fail to take other actions to adequately mitigate such credit risk, our earnings, cash flows and our ability to utilize receivable-based financing could deteriorate. In addition, our customers do not have an obligation to make purchases from us. In the event a significant customer decides to make its purchases from another distributor, experiences a significant change in demand from its own customer base, becomes financially unstable, or is acquired by another company, our revenues, and our ability to access rebates from vendors may be negatively impacted, resulting in an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations, changes in mix of our business amongst different tax jurisdictions, and deterioration of the performance of our business may adversely affect our effective income tax rates or operating margins and we may be required to pay additional taxes and/or tax assessments, as well as record valuation allowances relating to our deferred tax assets. We are subject to both income and transaction-based taxes in substantially all countries and jurisdictions in which we operate, 19 Table of Contents which are complex. Changes to tax regulations or to their interpretation or application by governments could adversely affect our future earnings and cash flows. Our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes to our operating structure, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. Likewise, unanticipated changes to our transaction tax liabilities could adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows and our competitive position. We engage in a high volume of transactions where multiple types of consumption, commercial and service taxes are potentially applicable. An inability to appropriately identify, charge, remit and document such taxes, along with an inconsistency in the application of these taxes by the applicable taxing authorities, may negatively impact our gross and operating margins, financial position or cash flows. We are subject to the continuous examination of both our income and transaction tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. While we regularly evaluate our tax contingencies and uncertain tax positions to determine the adequacy of our provision for income and other taxes based on the technical merits and the likelihood of success resulting from tax examinations, any adverse outcome from these continuous examinations may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets could become impaired, which could reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income in the year in which the write-off occurs. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the assets acquired. We also ascribe value to certain identifiable intangible assets, which consist primarily of customer relationships and trade names, among others, as a result of acquisitions. We may incur impairment charges on goodwill or identifiable intangible assets if we determine that the fair values of the goodwill or identifiable intangible assets are less than their current carrying values. We evaluate, on a regular basis, whether events or circumstances have occurred that indicate all, or a portion, of the carrying amount of goodwill may no longer be recoverable, in which case an impairment charge to earnings would become necessary. A decline in general economic conditions or global equity valuations could impact our judgments and assumptions about the fair value of our businesses and we could be required to record impairment charges on our goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets in the future. We have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combinations, and to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction become impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. For example, we had $428,401 of goodwill and $372,482 of identifiable net intangible assets recorded in connection with various acquisitions as of December 29, 2012. If our future results of operations for these acquired businesses do not perform as expected or are negatively impacted by any of the risk factors noted herein or other unforeseen events, we may have to recognize impairment charges which would adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in our credit rating or other market factors, such as adverse capital and credit market conditions or reductions in cash flow from operations, may affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, reduce access to capital, and/or increase our costs of borrowing. Our business requires significant levels of capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors. This is especially true when our business is expanding, including through acquisitions, but we still have substantial demand for capital even during periods of stagnant or declining net sales. In order to continue operating our business, we will continue to need access to capital, including debt financing and inbound and outbound flooring and draft discounting facilities. In addition, changes in payment terms with either suppliers or customers could increase our capital requirements. Our ability to repay current or future indebtedness when due, or have adequate 20 Table of Contents sources of liquidity to meet our business needs may be affected by changes to the cash flows of our subsidiaries. A reduction of cash flow generated by our subsidiaries may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Under certain circumstances, legal, tax or contractual restrictions may limit our ability or make it more costly to redistribute cash between subsidiaries to meet our overall operational or strategic investment needs, or for repayment of indebtedness requirements. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash resources and cash provided by operating activities, supplemented as necessary with funds available under our credit arrangements, will provide sufficient resources to meet our working capital and cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, including increasingly complex regulatory constraints on these markets, may increase our costs for accessing the capital and credit markets. In addition, adverse capital and credit market conditions may also limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing credit arrangements or our ability to access committed capacities or the capital we require may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, due to inability of our finance partners to meet their commitments to us. Furthermore, if we do not meet various covenant requirements of our corporate finance programs, including cross-default threshold provisions, we may not be able to access the majority of our credit programs with our finance partners. The lack of availability of such funding could harm our ability to operate or expand our business. In addition, our cash and cash equivalents (including trade receivables collected and/or monies set aside for payment to creditors) are deposited and/or invested with various financial institutions located in the various countries in which we operate. We endeavor to monitor these financial institutions regularly for credit quality; however, we are exposed to risk of loss on such funds or we may experience significant disruptions in our liquidity needs if one or more of these financial institutions were to suffer bankruptcy or similar restructuring. We cannot predict what losses we might incur in litigation matters and contingencies that we may be involved with from time to time. There are various claims, lawsuits and pending actions against us. It is our opinion that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, we can make no assurances that we will ultimately be successful in our defense of any of these matters. See Part I. Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” in this Form 10-K for a discussion of our material legal matters. We may become involved in intellectual property disputes that could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the efforts of management or require us to pay substantial damages or licensing fees. From time to time, we receive notifications alleging infringements of intellectual property rights allegedly held by others relating to the products or services we sell. Litigation with respect to patents or other intellectual property matters could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have an adverse effect on our operations. Further, we may be obligated to indemnify and defend our customers if the products or services we sell are alleged to infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights. While we may be able to seek indemnification from our suppliers to protect our customers and us against such claims, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such indemnification or that we will be fully protected against such claims. We may also be prohibited from marketing products, could be forced to market products without desirable features, or could incur substantial costs to defend legal actions, including where third parties claim that we or vendors who may or may not have indemnified us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. In recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from target companies. Even if we believe that such infringement claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to enter into costly settlements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain products or services, which could affect our ability to compete effectively. If an infringement claim is successful, we may be required to pay damages or 21 Table of Contents seek royalty or license arrangements, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Even if we have an agreement that indemnifies us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. Our failure to comply with the requirements of environmental regulations could adversely affect our business. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, recycling of products at the end of their useful life and other related matters. Compliance with these environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business. These laws include the European Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive as enacted by individual European Union countries and other similar legislation adopted in North America, which make producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, responsible for collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of recovered products. While we strive to ensure we are in compliance with all applicable regulations, certain of these regulations impose strict liability. Additionally, we may be held responsible for the prior activities of entities that we have acquired. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in substantial costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as well as third-party claims for property damage or personal injury. Further, environmental laws may become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violation. We face a variety of risks in our reliance on third-party service companies, including shipping companies for the delivery of our products and outsourcing arrangements. We rely almost entirely on arrangements with third-party shipping and freight forwarding companies for the delivery of our products. The termination of our arrangements with one or more of these third-party shipping companies, or the failure or inability of one or more of these third-party shipping companies to deliver products from suppliers to us or products from us to our customers, could disrupt our business and harm our reputation and operating results. In addition, we have outsourced various transaction-oriented service and support functions to business process outsource providers. We have also outsourced a significant portion of our IT infrastructure function and certain IT application development functions to third-party providers. We may outsource additional functions to third-party providers. Our reliance on third-party providers to provide service to us, our customers and suppliers and for our IT requirements to support our business could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations, including damaging our relationships with our suppliers and customers, if these third-party providers do not meet their obligations to adequately maintain an appropriate level of service for the outsourced functions or fail to adequately support our IT requirements. As a result of our outsourcing activities, it may also be more difficult to recruit and retain qualified employees for our business needs. Changes in accounting rules could adversely affect our future operating results. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC, who create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. Future periodic assessments required by current or new accounting standards may result in additional noncash charges and/or changes in presentation or disclosure. A change from current accounting standards could have a significant adverse effect on our reported financial position or results of operations. Our quarterly results have fluctuated significantly. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future as a result of: • general changes in economic or geopolitical conditions, including changes in legislation or regulatory environments in which we operate; • competitive conditions in our industry, which may impact the prices charged and terms and conditions imposed by our suppliers and/or competitors and the prices we charge our customers, which in turn may negatively impact our revenues and/or gross margins; 22 Table of Contents • seasonal variations in the demand for our products and services, which historically have included lower demand in Europe during the summer months, worldwide pre-holiday stocking in the retail channel during the September-to-December period and the seasonal increase in demand for our North American fee-based logistics services in the fourth quarter, which affects our operating expenses and gross margins; • changes in product mix, including entry or expansion into new markets, as well as the exit or retraction of certain business; • the impact of and possible disruption caused by integration and reorganization of our businesses and efforts to improve our IT capabilities, as well as the related expenses and/or charges; • currency fluctuations in countries in which we operate; • variations in our levels of excess inventory and doubtful accounts, and changes in the terms of vendor-sponsored programs such as price protection and return rights; • changes in the level of our operating expenses; • the impact of acquisitions and divestitures; • variations in the mix of profits between multiple tax jurisdictions, including losses in certain tax jurisdictions in which we are not able to record a tax benefit, as well as changes in assessments of uncertain tax positions or changes in the valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets, which could affect our provision for taxes and effective tax rate; • the occurrence of unexpected events or the resolution of existing uncertainties, including, but not limited to, litigation or regulatory matters; • the loss or consolidation of one or more of our major suppliers or customers; • product supply constraints; and • interest rate fluctuations and/or credit market volatility, which may increase our borrowing costs and may influence the willingness or ability of customers and end-users to purchase products and services. These historical variations in our business may not be indicative of future trends in the near term. Our narrow operating margins may magnify the impact of the foregoing factors on our operating results. We believe that you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of future performance. In addition, the results of any quarterly period are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 