Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.” NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The body of generally accepted accounting principles is commonly referred to as “GAAP.” For this purpose, a non-GAAP financial measure is generally defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as one that purports to measure historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows but excludes or 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements includes amounts that would not be so adjusted in the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure. From time to time Millennium discloses so-called non-GAAP financial measures, primarily EBITDA, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of long-lived assets. The non-GAAP financial measures described herein or in other documents issued by Millennium are not a substitute for the GAAP measures of earnings, for which management has responsibility. Millennium sometimes uses EBITDA in its communications with investors, financial analysts and the public. This is because EBITDA is perceived as a useful and comparable measure of operating performance and the contribution of operations to liquidity. For example, interest expense is dependent on the capital structure and credit rating of a company. However, debt levels, credit ratings and, therefore, the impact of interest expense on earnings vary in significance between companies. Similarly, the tax positions of individual companies can vary because of their differing abilities to take advantage of tax benefits, with the result that their effective tax rates and tax expense can vary considerably. Finally, companies differ in the age and method of acquisition of productive assets, and thus the relative costs of those assets, as well as in the depreciation (straight-line, accelerated, units of production) method, which can result in considerable variability in depreciation and amortization expense between companies. Thus, for comparison purposes, management believes that EBITDA can be useful as an objective and comparable measure of operating profitability and the contribution of operations to liquidity because it excludes these elements of earnings that do not provide information about the current operations of existing assets. Accordingly, management believes that disclosure of EBITDA can provide useful information to investors, financial analysts and the public in their evaluation of companies’ operating performance and the contribution of operations to liquidity. Millennium also sometimes reports adjusted net income (loss) or adjusted EBITDA, excluding specified items that are unusual in nature or are not comparable from period to period and that are included in GAAP measures of earnings. Management believes that excluding these items may help investors compare operating performance between two periods. Such adjusted data is always reported with an explanation of the items that are excluded. 