ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and the prevailing market price and performance of our common shares may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. In addition to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. These important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. Adverse Effect of Current Economic Weakness As reflected with more specificity below, the current economic weakness and related disruptions to capital and credit markets in North America and elsewhere have reduced the number of customers on cruise ships and at our land-based venues and have reduced consumer demand for our services and products. This has materially adversely affected our results of operations and financial condition and the continuation of these conditions could continue to materially adversely affect us. We Depend on Our Agreements with Cruise Lines and Land-Based Spas; if These Agreements Terminate, Our Business Would be Harmed Our revenues are generated principally from our cruise ship spa operations. The cruise line agreements have specific terms, ranging from one to six years with an average remaining term per ship of approximately three years as of February 11, 2010. As of that date, cruise line agreements that expire within one year covered five of the 126 ships served by us. These five ships accounted for approximately 2.1% of our 2009 revenues. We cannot assure you that any of these agreements will be renewed after their expiration date or that any renewal will be on similar terms. Also, we cannot assure you that upon renewal, these agreements will not cause reductions in our margins. Typically, the amounts we pay to cruise lines and land-based venues increase upon our entering into renewals of agreements. In addition, these agreements provide for termination by the cruise lines with limited or no advance notice under certain circumstances, including, among other things, the withdrawal of a ship from the cruise trade, the sale or lease of a ship or our failure to achieve specified passenger service standards. As of February 11, 2010, agreements for two ships provided for termination for any reason by the cruise line on 90 days' notice, and, with respect to three ships, we are operating without written agreements. These five ships (which are included in the 126 ships referenced above) accounted for approximately 2.1% of our 2009 revenues. Termination of significant cruise line agreements or a series of other cruise line agreements, either upon completion of their terms or prior thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our land-based spa agreements also provide for termination with limited advance notice under cer tain circumstances, including a failure to meet specified performance standards. We Depend on the Cruise Industry and Their Risks are Risks to Us Our revenues are generated principally from cruise ship passengers. Therefore, the ability of the cruise industry to attract passengers is critical to our results of operations and financial condition. The cruise industry is subject to significant risks that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. 20 Cruise lines compete for consumer disposable leisure time dollars with other vacation alternatives such as hotels and sightseeing vacations. Demand for cruises is dependent on the underlying economic strength of the countries from which cruise lines source their passengers. Economic changes that reduce disposable income or consumer confidence in the countries from which our cruise line customers source their passengers may affect demand for vacations, including cruise vacations, which are discretionary purchases. The weakened U.S. and other world economies during 2008 and 2009, including the impact on consumers of high fuel costs, particularly through the middle of 2008, and tighter credit, has had an adverse effect on the discretionary spending of consumers, including spending on cruise and land-based venue vacations and our services and products at those venues. In order for the cruise industry to maintain its market share in a difficult economic environment, cruise lines have offere d discounted fares to prospective passengers. Passengers who are cruising solely due to discounted fares may reflect their cost consciousness by not spending on discretionary items, such as our services and products. This adversely affected our results of operations during 2008 and 2009 and the continuation of these challenging economic conditions or their worsening could have a material adverse effect on the cruise industry and also could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition for 2010 and thereafter during any such continuation or worsening. The economic slowdown and related disruptions to capital and credit markets also could have an adverse effect on the cruise industry by, among other things, limiting the ability of cruise lines to introduce new ships and to refurbish and repair existing ships. Most of the ships we serve are primarily marketed to North American consumers. Despite its growth in recent years, according to CLIA, the passenger volume of cruises marketed primarily to North American consumers declined in 2008 compared to 2007 and, based on a CLIA estimate, increased only slightly in 2009 compared to 2008. In 2010 and future years, particularly in light of the challenging economic environment worldwide, the number of cruise passengers may decline and, accordingly, the cruise industry may not grow or may decrease in size. A significant and/or continuing decrease in passenger volume could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A continuing industry trend reported by CLIA is the growing number of passengers sourced from outside North America. We believe that non-North American passengers spend less on our services and products than North American passengers. Other recent trends are those of certain cruise lines reducing the number of cruises to certain long-standing destinations and replacing them with alternative destinations, as well as extending the length of voyages. A number of such replacements and extensions result in cruises producing lower revenues to us than cruises to the prior destinations and of certain long-standing durations. The continuation of these trends could materially adversely affect the results of our shipboard spa operations. Accidents and other incidents involving cruise ships and other unscheduled withdrawals of ships from service, delays in new ship introductions, environmental violations by cruise lines, restricted access of cruise ships to environmentally sensitive regions, hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions and increases in fuel costs could materially adversely impact the cruise industry and our results of operations and financial condition. For example, in recent years, hurricanes have caused the withdrawal of ships that we served from service for use in hurricane relief efforts, as well as the temporary closing of cruise ports and the destruction of a cruise pier facility. A number of cruise ships have experienced outbreaks of illnesses that have affected, at times, hundreds of passengers on a ship. In addition, epidemics affecting global regions could also adversely affect cruise ship travel. Also, in recent years, cruise ship sinkings, attempted pirate attacks, passenger accidents, di sappearances and assaults, fatalities from shore excursion activities, a shipboard fire and other incidents have brought adverse publicity to the cruise industry. The public concern over these incidents, especially if they are repeated, or other negative publicity about the cruise industry, could adversely affect the demand for cruises and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The cruise lines' capacity has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow over the next few years as new ships are introduced. Increased cruise capacity could impact the ability of the cruise lines to attract and retain qualified officers and other crew members. In addition, in other to utilize the new capacity, it is likely that the cruise industry will need to increase its share of the overall vacation market. In order to increase that market share, cruise lines may be required to offer discounted fares to prospective passengers, which would have the potentially adverse effects on us described above. 21 Severe weather conditions, both at sea and at ports of embarkation, also could adversely affect the cruise industry. The cruise industry also relies to a significant extent on airlines to transport passengers to ports of embarkation. Changes in airline service to cruise embarkation and disembarkation locations could adversely affect us. In addition, any strikes or other disruptions of airline service, including those that could follow terrorist attacks, or armed hostilities, could adversely affect the ability of cruise passengers to reach their ports of embarkation, or could cause cancellation of cruises. Cruise ships have increasingly had itineraries which provide for the ships to be in port during cruises. When cruise ships are in port, our revenues are adversely affected. In addition, a number of cruise lines are increasingly offering voyages that are longer in duration and that call on more exotic ports. Such cruises generally generate lower revenues for us than shorter cruises and cruises that call on more common destinations. Cruise ships periodically go into dry-dock for routine maintenance, repairs and refurbishment for periods ranging from one to three weeks. Cruise ships also may be taken out of service for non-routine maintenance and repairs as a result of damage from an accident or otherwise. A ship also may go out of service with respect to us if it is transferred to a cruise line we do not serve or if it is retired from service. While we attempt to plan appropriately for the scheduled removal from service of ships we serve, unexpected removals from service of ships we serve can hamper the efficient distribution of our shipboard personnel, in addition to causing unexpected reductions in our shipboard revenues. We Depend on Certain Cruise Lines, and the Loss of a Significant Cruise Line Customer Could Harm Us As a result of the consolidation of the cruise industry, the number of independent cruise lines has decreased in recent years and this trend may continue. Also, historically, some smaller cruise lines have ceased operating for economic reasons and this may happen to other cruise lines in the future. As a result of these factors, a small number of cruise companies, all of which currently are our customers, dominate the cruise industry. Revenues from passengers of each of the following cruise companies accounted for more than ten percent of our total revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively: Carnival (including Carnival, Cunard (which we served until November 2008), Carnival Australia, Costa, Holland America, P&O European Ferries (which we no longer serve), Princess, Seabourn Cruise Lines): 33.6%, 33.3% and 33.4% and Royal Caribbean (including Royal Caribbean, Celebrity and Azamara cruise lines): 19.0%, 19.6% and 20.0%. These companies al so accounted for 106 of the 126 ships served by us as of February 11, 2010. If we cease to serve one of these cruise companies, or a substantial number of ships operated by a cruise company, it could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Acquisitions and Expansions One of the ways that we have grown our business has been through acquisitions of existing businesses, including the Bliss and Remède product and spa operations. These acquisitions have represented a significant amount of our growth in the past. We will continue to consider strategic acquisitions of existing businesses that are compatible with our operations. Any such acquisitions would be subject to various risks, including, without limitation, the risk that we will not be able to operate a business as successfully as it was operated prior to its acquisition, the risks associated with investing financial and other of our resources in effectuating an acquisition that may not be ultimately beneficial to the Company, the risk that the purchase price we pay for an acquisition does not, in fact, represent a fair price for the transaction, the possible loss of key employees, vendors or customer relationships of acquired entities and the risk that we may not be able to successfully integrate any new business that we acquire into our then existing operations. In connection with acquisitions, we attempt to negotiate appropriate protections for us against unknown liabilities relating to the pre-acquisition activities of the target business. However, those protections generally have some limitations, and we often depend on the continued solvency of the seller of the business. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be protected against all liabilities of the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future. With respect to our schools' > operations, acquisitions involve regulatory risks, as described below. In addition, we may also consider expanding through the creation of new schools or the establishment of branches in new locations of one or more of our existing schools. Establishing new schools or new branch campuses of our existing schools would likely involve a significant amount of financial and other resources of the Company. Despite any such investment of funds and other resources, we cannot assure you that any new school or branch campus that we may establish in the future would be successful. The Success of Our Hotel Spas Depends on the Hospitality Industry Our hotel spa operations are conducted at 61 land-based venues located in a total number of 15 countries and territories. We are dependent on the hotel industries for the success of our hotel spas. To the extent that consumers do not choose to stay at venues where we operate spas, over which we have no control, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The hospitality industry is subject to risks that are similar to those of the cruise industry. 22 The considerations described above regarding the effects of adverse economic conditions on the cruise industry apply similarly to the hospitality industry, including the hotels where we have operations. The current economic slowdown has resulted in reduced hotel occupancy rates, including at many of the hotels where we operate spas. Lower hotel occupancy has a direct, adverse effect on the number of hotel guests that purchase our spa services and products at those venues. Continuation of lower occupancy rates at the hotels we serve could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The following are other risks related to the hospitality industry: changes in the national, regional and local climate (including major national or international terrorist attacks, such as the July 2009 hotel bombings in Jakarta, Indonesia, armed hostilities or other significant adverse events, local conditions, including an oversupply of hotel properties, or a reduction in demand for hotel rooms); the possible loss of funds expended for build-outs of spas at venues that fail to open, underperform or close due to the economic slowdown or otherwise; the attractiveness of the venues to consumers and competition from comparable venues in terms of, among other things, accessibility and cost; the outbreaks of illnesses, or the perceived risk of such outbreaks, in locations where we operate land-based spas; weather conditions, including natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis and floods; possible labor unrest or changes in economics based on collective bargaining activities; changes in ownership of the venues we serve; changes in room rates at the venues we serve; increasing conversion of guest rooms at hotels to condominium units and the decrease in spa usage that often accompanies such conversions, and the related risk that condominium hotels are less likely to be suitable venues for our spas; reductions in hotel occupancy during major renovations or as a result of damage or other causes; the maintenance of the venues we serve and changes in popular travel patterns; changes in guest demographics at the venues we serve; acquisition by hotel chains of spa service providers to create captive "in-house" brands and development by hotel chains of their own proprietary spa service providers, reducing the opportunity for third party spa providers; and the financial condition of the airline industry, as well as elimination of, or reduction in, airline service to locations where we operate hotel spas, which would result in fewer guests at those venues. We Depend on a Limited Number of Product Manufacturers Almost all of the ingredients for our Elemis, La Thérapie, Bliss and Remède products are sourced from a few premier European manufacturers. We manufacture (blend and package) our Elemis and La Thérapie products, but our Bliss and Remède products are manufactured for us by third parties. If any of this limited number of manufacturers ceased producing for us, for any reason, these ingredients and other materials for our products, or, in addition, in the case of Bliss and Remède, the blending and packaging of these products, the transition to other manufacturers could result in significant production delays. Any significant delay or disruption in the supply of our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A claim has been made against us by the manufacturer that produces a significant portion of the ingredients for our Elemis and La Thérapie beauty products. The claim relates to a dispute over certain terms in our contract with this manufacturer. If this manufacturer ceased producing for us, for any reason, these ingredients for our products, the transition to other manufacturers could result in significant production delays. Any significant delay or disruption in supply of our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales. 23 We Depend on Our Distribution Facilities We operate two distribution facilities, one of which is located in the United Kingdom and the other in the United States. The majority of our inventory is housed in these distribution facilities. Our U.S. facility is located in Florida, where destructive hurricanes often occur, resulting in damage to businesses or the closing of businesses for, sometimes, extended periods of time. We also utilize distribution facilities operated by third parties and over which we have no day to day control. While we have insurance to cover losses to our products, if our inventory stored at these facilities suffered any loss or damage due to fire, adverse weather or other hazard, our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of such loss or damage due to any resulting inability of ours to timely fulfill our product delivery commitments. We Depend on Our Third Party Product Distribution Channels We sell our products through a variety of third party channels. Factors that adversely impact our distribution channels' businesses also may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These factors may include, among others, the following: credit risks associated with the financial condition of our product distributors and retail channels; the effects of consolidation or weakness in the retail industry, including the closure of stores; and inventory reduction initiatives and other factors affecting customer buying patterns, including any reduction in retail space commitment to cosmetics. In addition, a significant amount of Bliss products are sold through one retail chain. The termination of our arrangement with that retailer to sell Bliss brand products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Bliss and Remède amenities program at Starwood helps our brand awareness for these products. The termination of that agreement could adversely affect the growth of the name recognition for those products and, accordingly, could adversely affect sales growth for those lines. Hostilities May Adversely Impact Our Financial Results The cruise lines we serve operate in waters and call on ports throughout the world, including geographic regions that, from time to time, experience political and civil unrest and armed hostilities. In recent years, cruise ships, including those we serve, have experienced attempted pirate attacks off the coast of Africa. In addition, our hotel spa operations in Asia have been adversely affected by terrorist bombings in Indonesia, most recently in July 2009. In 2007, there was a terrorist attack in the Maldives, where we operate several hotel spas. Political unrest in areas where we operate spas also has adversely affected our operations in the past. The threat of additional attacks and of armed hostilities internationally or locally may cause prospective travelers to cancel their plans, including plans for cruise or land-based venue vacations. Weaker cruise industry and land-based venue performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and fi nancial condition. We are Required to Make Minimum Payments Under Our Agreements and Face Increasing Payments to Cruise Lines and Owners of Our Land-Based Venues We are obligated to make minimum annual payments to certain cruise lines and owners of our land-based venues regardless of the amount of revenues we receive from customers. We may also be required to make such minimum annual payments under any future agreements into which we enter. Accordingly, we could be obligated to pay more in minimum payments than the amount we collect from customers. As of December 31, 2009, these payments are required by cruise line agreements covering a total of 25 ships served by us and by 16 of the agreements for our land-based spas. 24 As of December 31, 2009, we guaranteed total minimum payments to cruise lines (excluding payments based on minimum amounts per passenger per day of a cruise applicable to certain ships served by us) of approximately: $45.9 million in 2010, $47.5 million in 2011, $37.0 million in 2012, $20.5 million in 2013 and $3.6 million in 2014. These amounts could increase under new or renewed agreements. Some of the minimum annual payments are calculated based upon minimum amounts per passenger per day of a cruise for passengers actually embarked on each cruise of the respective ship. These payments could significantly increase the minimum payments set forth above. In general, we have experienced increases in required payments to cruise lines upon renewing, or entering into, new agreements with cruise lines. As of December 31, 2009, we guaranteed total minimum payments to owners of our land-based venues of approximately: $8.6 million in 2010, $8.3 million in 2011, $7.0 million in 2012, $6.7 million in 2013, $6.3 million in 2014 and $12.3 million thereafter. These amounts could increase under new or renewed agreements. We Depend on the Continued Viability of the Ships and Land-Based Venues We Serve Our revenues from our shipboard guests and guests at our land-based spas can only be generated if the ships and land-based venues we serve continue to operate. Historically, some smaller cruise lines we served have ceased operating for economic reasons. In addition, one of the hotels where we operate a luxury spa filed for protection under the federal bankruptcy laws several years ago, although it has since been sold to a new owner and continues to operate. However, we cannot assure you of the continued viability of any of the land-based venues (including our ability to protect our investments in build-outs of spa facilities) or cruise lines that we serve, particularly in light of the current challenging economic environment in the United States and many other countries. To the extent that cruise lines or land-based venues we serve, or could potentially serve in the future, cease to operate, our business, results of operations and financial condition coul d be materially adversely affected. The Economic Slowdown has Adversely Affected Our Receivables Collection The economic slowdown has resulted in our receivables being collected on a less timely basis than prior to the commencement of these challenging economic conditions. The continuation or worsening of the economic slowdown could result in our receivables being subject to an even longer period of collection or, in some cases, becoming uncollectible. Delays in New Ship Introductions Could Slow our Growth Our growth depends, in part, on our serving new cruise ships brought into service. A number of cruise lines we serve have experienced in the past, and could experience in the future, delays in bringing new ships into service. In addition, there is a limited number of shipyards in the world capable of constructing large cruise ships in accordance with the standards of major cruise lines. This also may contribute to delays in new ship construction. Such delays could slow our growth and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. High Fuel Costs Could Adversely Impact our Shipboard Financial Results In addition to the adverse effects on consumers of high fuel costs, as described above, higher fuel costs during 2008 adversely affected us directly. We depend on commercial airlines for the transportation of our shipboard employees to and from the ships we serve and, as a result, we pay for a relatively large number of flights for these employees each year. During times of higher fuel costs, such as in 2008, airfares, including those applicable to the transportation of our employees, were increased by the airlines we utilized. Increased transportation costs associated with increased fuel costs also add to our costs of delivery of our products to the ships we serve and other destinations. If fuel prices increase significantly again, airfares may correspondingly increase. For reasons described in the preceding sentences, extended periods of increased airfares could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of our shipboard spa business. 25 We Depend on Our Key Officers and Qualified Employees Our continued success depends to a significant extent on our senior executive officers, including Clive E. Warshaw, Chairman of the Board, Leonard I. Fluxman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and our three executive vice presidents. The loss of services of any of these persons or other key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have key person life insurance policies with respect to Mr. Fluxman and Glenn Fusfield, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer - Maritime, but not Mr. Warshaw or any of our other executive officers. Our continued success also is dependent on our ability to recruit and retain personnel qualified to perform our spa services. Shipboard employees typically are employed pursuant to agreements with terms of nine months. Our land-based spa employees generally are employed without contracts, on an at-will basis. Other providers of shipboard spa services have been competing with us for shipboard personnel. We also compete with spas and other employers for our shipboard and land-based spa personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract a sufficient number of applicants possessing the requisite training and skills necessary for conducting our business. Our inability to attract a sufficient number of qualified applicants to provide our services and products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in recent years, the immigration approval process in the United States proceeds at a slower pac e than previously had been the case. Since many of our shipboard employees are not U.S. citizens, this slower pace could adversely affect our ability to meet our shipboard staffing needs on a timely basis. A small number of Bliss employees at a spa in New York City are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. In addition, we continue to be in negotiations with respect to the non-management employees of our luxury spa at the Atlantis and One&Only Ocean Club hotels in the Bahamas becoming subject to a collective bargaining agreement. While no groups of employees at any of our other operations have commenced similar organizational activities, we cannot guarantee that workers at other locations where we have operations will remain non-unionized. Collective bargaining agreements may require us to negotiate wages, salaries, benefits and other terms with one or more groups of our employees collectively, through a union representative, and could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our labor costs or otherwise restricting our ability to maximize the efficiency of our operations. In addition, the various jurisdictions where we operate our spas have their own licensing or similar requirements applicable to our employees, which could affect our ability to open new spas on a timely basis or adequately staff existing spas. The ship we serve that is U.S.-based also is subject to U.S. labor law requirements that can result in delays in obtaining adequate staffing. Possible Adverse Changes in U.S. or Foreign Tax Laws or Changes in our Business Could Increase our Taxes Background Steiner Leisure is a Bahamas international business company ("IBC") that, directly or indirectly, owns, among other entities: Steiner Transocean Limited ("Steiner Transocean"), our principal subsidiary and a Bahamas IBC that conducts our shipboard operations, primarily outside U.S. waters (which constitutes most of our shipboard activities), and Steiner Management Services, LLC, a Florida limited liability company that performs administrative services in connection with our operations in exchange for fees from Steiner Transocean and other subsidiaries ("Management Services"). We also own, directly or indirectly, the shares of additional subsidiaries in the United States, the United Kingdom and other taxable jurisdictions as well as subsidiaries in jurisdictions in which the subsidiaries are not subject to tax. Steiner Leisure and its Bahamas IBC subsidiaries are not subject to Bahamas or other income tax, except as set forth below. Our United States subsidiaries are subject to U.S. income tax as a consolidated group at regular corporate rates up to 35%. Generally, any dividends paid by our United States holding company to its parent, Steiner Leisure, would be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax. Other than as described below, we believe that none of the income generated by our non-U.S. subsidiaries will be effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and, accordingly, that such income will not be subject to United States federal income tax. 26 Steiner Transocean is a Bahamas IBC and is not subject to Bahamas tax. A foreign corporation generally is subject to United States federal corporate income tax at a rate of up to 35% on its United States-source income and on certain limited types of its foreign-source income that is effectively connected to a trade or business it conducts in the United States. A foreign corporation also can be subject to a branch profits tax of 30% imposed on its after-tax earnings that are so effectively connected. Steiner Transocean has three types of income: income from the provision of spa services, income from the sales of spa products purchased (at prices determined on an arms' length basis) from another non-U.S. subsidiary of ours and income from leasing (at rates determined on an arms' length basis) its shipboard employees and space to a U.S. subsidiary of ours that performs spa services and sells spa products while the ships are in U.S. waters and pays Steiner Transocean the amounts referenced above (the "U.S. Waters Activities"). We believe that most of Steiner Transocean's shipboard income will be treated as foreign-source income, not effectively connected to a business it conducts in the United States. This belief is based on the following: we believe that all of the functions performed, resources employed and risks assumed in connection with the performance of the above-mentioned services and sales (other than Steiner Transocean's involvement in the U.S. Waters Activities) occur outside of the U.S.; and the income to Steiner Transocean from the U.S. Waters Activities is income effectively connected to a U.S. source, and thus subject to U.S. income taxation, but constitutes a small percentage of Steiner Transocean's total income. The Risks to Us However, all or a portion of Steiner Transocean's income for periods prior to January 1, 2007 could be subject to United States federal income tax at a rate of up to 35%: to the extent the first two activities described above were considered by the United States Internal Revenue Service to occur in the United States, its possessions or territorial waters; or if the activities performed on behalf of Steiner Transocean in the United States were considered to be a material factor in generating Steiner Transocean's income, which we do not believe to be the case. Under United States Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") regulations, which were effective January 1, 2007, all or a portion of Steiner Transocean's income could be subject to U.S. federal income tax at a rate of up to 35%: to the extent the income from Steiner Transocean's shipboard operations that we believe are performed outside of U.S. territorial waters is considered by the IRS to be attributable to functions performed, resources employed or risks assumed within the U.S. or its possessions or territorial waters; to the extent the income from Steiner Transocean's sale of spa products for use, consumption, or disposition in international waters is considered by the IRS to be attributable to functions performed, resources employed or risks assumed within the U.S., its possessions or territorial waters; or to the extent that passage of title or transfer of ownership of products sold by Steiner Transocean for use, consumption or disposition outside international waters, takes place in the U.S. or a U.S. office materially participates in such sales. If Steiner Transocean is a controlled foreign corporation ("CFC"), any of its shipboard income will be considered income from sources within the United States and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax unless such income is attributable to functions performed, resources employed or risks assumed in a foreign country or countries. 27 A CFC is any foreign corporation if more than 50% of the (i) total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote; or (ii) the total value of the stock of such corporation is owned or considered as owned by "U.S. shareholders" on any day during the taxable year of such corporation. A U.S. shareholder means a "U.S. person" who owns or is considered to own ten percent or more of the total combined voting power of the stock entitled to vote of such corporation. A "U.S. person" is a citizen or resident of the U.S., a domestic partnership, a domestic corporation, any domestic estate and a trust over which a U.S. court is able to exercise administrative supervision and over which one or more U.S. persons have authority to control all substantial decisions. We believe that Steiner Transocean is not a CFC. If Steiner Transocean is subject to United States federal income tax (at a rate of up to 35%) on its United States source income and on certain of its foreign-source income that is effectively connected to a business it conducts in the United States, it also would be subject to a branch profits tax of 30% imposed on its after-tax earnings withdrawn, or considered to be withdrawn, from its United States business. Certain non-U.S. jurisdictions may also assert that Steiner Transocean's income is subject to their income tax. Management Services receives payments from Steiner Transocean and other subsidiaries of Steiner Leisure in return for certain administrative services it provides to Steiner Transocean and those other subsidiaries. The IRS may assert that transactions between Management Services and Steiner Transocean (and between our other direct and indirect subsidiaries) do not contain arm's length terms. In that event, income or deductions could be reallocated among the subsidiaries in a manner that could increase the taxable income of Management Services or other U.S. subsidiaries of ours. This reallocation also could result in the imposition of interest and penalties. Management Services and other U.S. subsidiaries of ours also are subject to U.S. state and local income, franchise and other taxes and certain of our other subsidiaries are subject to taxes in certain other countries. Some of our United Kingdom, Bahamas and United States subsidiaries provide goods and/or services to us and certain of our other subsidiaries. The United Kingdom Inland Revenue, or United States Internal Revenue Service authorities may assert that some or all of these transactions do not contain arm's length terms. In that event, income or deductions could be reallocated among our subsidiaries in a manner that could increase the U.K. or U.S. tax on us. This reallocation also could result in the imposition of interest and penalties. We cannot assure you that the tax laws on which we have relied to minimize our income taxes will remain unchanged in the future. In 2009, our effective income tax rate was 11.7%. See Note 9 in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Our land-based operations have significantly increased, including as a result of our schools acquisitions in recent years and our recent acquisition of Bliss Inc., and we intend to consider land-based opportunities in the future (though we cannot assure you that we will be successful in finding appropriate opportunities), which would result in an increase in the amount of our non-shipboard income. This could result in a significant increase in the amount of our income that is subject to tax. In addition, such amount of income subject to tax will continue to increase to the extent our land-based income continues to increase relative to our shipboard income. We Face Competition on Ships and on Land We compete with passenger activity alternatives on cruise ships and with competing providers of services and products similar to ours seeking agreements with cruise lines. Gambling casinos, bars and a variety of shops are found on almost all of the ships served by us. In addition, ships dock in ports which provide opportunities for additional shopping as well as other activities that compete with us for passenger attention and dollars, and cruise ships are increasingly offering itineraries providing for greater numbers of port days. Cruise ships also typically offer swimming pools and other recreational facilities and activities, as well as musical and other entertainment, all without additional charge to the passengers. One cruise line we formerly served has engaged the services of third party spa providers for two of its ships. Additional cruise lines could take similar actions in the future. In addition, there are several other entities offering services in the cruise industry similar to those provided by us and we cannot assure you that we will be able to serve new cruise ships that come into service and that are not covered by our cruise line agreements. 28 Many of the land-based venues that we serve or may serve in the future offer recreational entertainment facilities and activities similar to those offered on cruise ships, often without additional charge to guests. A number of the hotels we serve also offer casino gambling. These activities and facilities compete with us for customer time and dollars. Our land-based spas also compete with other spas in their vicinities, as well as with other beauty, relaxation or other therapeutic alternatives. These include salons that offer these services at prices significantly lower than those charged by us. We believe, however, that the prices charged by us are appropriate for the quality of the experience we provide in our respective markets. In addition, we also compete, both for customers and for contracts with hotels, with spas and beauty salons owned or operated by companies that have offered their land-based spa services longer than we have, some of which enjoy greater name recognition wit h customers and prospective customers than spas operated by us. Also, a number of these spa operators may have greater resources than we do. Further, some hotel operators provide spa services themselves. The post-secondary education market is highly competitive. Our post-secondary massage and beauty schools compete with providers of similar instruction in the states in which they are located and elsewhere in the United States, including many providers with greater resources than ours. Our schools face competition from, among others, traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other proprietary schools, including those that offer online education programs, as well as from military service and other immediate employment after secondary education. Some public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to proprietary schools such as ours. Lower tuition by our competitors could limit our ability to increase or maintain student enrollment if we increase our tuition charges. A number of our c ompetitors' schools are now offering or contemplating offering programs similar to, or otherwise competitive with, ours. This will increase the competition for students. There are many competitors in the beauty products industry. Our product sales compete with a variety of other brands, including those of manufacturers with greater resources than ours, and those with greater name recognition. Our success depends on the appeal of our products to a broad range of customers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change, and on our ability to develop new products through product innovations and product line extensions. We may incur expenses in connection with product development, marketing and advertising that are not subsequently supported by a sufficient level of sales, which could negatively affect our results of operations. If we are unable to compete effectively in one or more areas of our operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks of Non-U.S. Operations A total of five of our hotel spa operations are located on the Indonesian island of Bali, which was the site of terrorist attacks in October 2002 and October 2005. Jakarta, the Indonesian capital, was the site of hotel bombings in August 2003 and July 2009. In addition, Indonesia and other countries where we currently or may in the future operate spas have in the past, and may in the future, experience adverse developments in the political and economic environment, varying governmental regulations, foreign currency fluctuations and potential adverse tax consequences. Such adverse developments, among other things, could prevent us from adequately supervising these operations, and any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain locations in Asia where we operate our spas lack a local workforce with adequate training. Bringing in trained spa employees from elsewhere is sometimes difficult due to applicable immigration rules. Severe Weather Can Disrupt Our Spa Operations We operate spas in the Caribbean, the Pacific, Mexico and Asia and other locations which are subject to severe weather conditions, including hurricanes, earthquakes and other destructive storms. For example, as a result of the powerful Tsunami that struck Asia in December 2004, most of our operations in the Maldives were damaged and we have since then ceased to operate some of those spas. Heavy flooding in the Fiji Islands in January 2008 disrupted air travel to that country for several weeks, reducing the number of potential guests at our spa facilities there. Similar storms or other destructive natural occurrences affecting the areas in which we, or the cruise lines we serve, have operations, including Florida, the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 29 Risk of Early Termination of Land-Based Spa Agreements A number of our land-based spa agreements provide that landlords may terminate the agreement prior to its expiration date (provided, in some cases, that we receive certain compensation with respect to our build-out expenses and earnings lost as a result of such termination). While we always attempt to negotiate the best deal we can in this regard, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully negotiate a termination fee in any of our future agreements or that any amounts we would receive in connection with such termination accurately reflects the economic value of the assets we would be leaving behind as a result of such termination. In addition, in the event of certain terminations of an agreement with a land-based venue, such as by the venue operator after our breach of an agreement, or as a result of the bankruptcy of a venue, even if we have a provision in our agreement providing for a termination payment, we could receive no compensation with respect to build-out exp enditures we have incurred. We also attempt to obtain terms in our land-based spa agreements that protect us in the event that the lessor's lender forecloses and takes over the property in question. However, we cannot always obtain such protective "non-disturbance" terms. In the event that the lender to a land-based venue owner under an agreement where no such non-disturbance term is included forecloses on that property, our agreement could be terminated prior to the expiration of its term. In such case, in addition to the loss of income from that spa, we could lose the residual value of the investment we made to build out that facility. We May Have Insufficient Liquidity to Take Advantage of Some Available Opportunities We have been required, in connection with a number of our hotel spa agreements, to incur the cost of the build-out of the hotel spa facilities in amounts up to approximately $15.6 million. In addition, with respect to the spa for which we spent the aforesaid amount, we also agreed to advance a total of $6.2 million toward its build-out. Any spas we may wish to operate in the future could require build-out expenditures, and we cannot assure you that we would have available sufficient resources to take advantage of any such opportunity. We also may seek acquisitions or other opportunities to grow our business which would require us to expend funds, possibly significant amounts, such as our recent acquisition of Bliss. That acquisition required us to obtain new funding arrangements and we are subject to restrictions on capital expenditures under our new credit facility. Other limitations on capital expenditures, or on other operational matters, could a pply in the future. Additionally, our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to be able to take advantage of all otherwise favorable opportunities to operate hotel spas or effectuate other potentially favorable transactions. Generally, as long as we have certain bank agreements outstanding, if we exceed our currently anticipated capital expenditures or our cash flow from operations is less than anticipated, we would need to seek concessions from our lender and/or additional equity or debt financing to fund our business plan. Additional financing, including a new credit facility, may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Risks Relating to Build-out and Opening of Our Land-Based Spas In connection with new land-based spas we may seek to operate in the future, we may wish, or be required, to build out the spa's facilities at our own expense. Our cost to build out spa facilities has ranged from relatively small amounts (for small spas in the Pacific and Asia) to approximately $15.6 million (plus the advance of an additional $6.2 million in construction costs). Such build-outs involve risks to us, including the following: The commencement of the build-outs generally cannot begin until the venue owner has completed its own construction site around the premises of the proposed spa. We have no control over that process. The build-out process, as well as weather-related postponements and other factors affecting construction projects generally, could delay our spas' opening dates from those which we may have announced to the public and could result in a loss of revenue to us. If the land-based owner files for bankruptcy or otherwise has financial problems prior to the opening of the spa, the spa may never commence operations. We may lose substantial funds expended on the build-out to that point if we lose our rights to build out and/or operate that spa as a result of a bankruptcy or similar proceeding. For example, in the past, the operator of a hotel where we operate a luxury spa filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. While that hotel was subsequently sold to a new owner (Planet Hollywood) and we continue to conduct our operations there, we cannot assure you that our operations at other facilities we operate will not be subject to bankruptcy proceedings or other financial problems. Such proceedings or other problems at a land-based spa could have a material adverse effect on our operations at that venue. 30 In addition, openings of new land-based spas may be delayed for reasons not related to build-outs. Among other things, adverse local economic or political conditions, hostility in the region, unavailability of labor or outbreaks of illnesses could delay commencement of our operations at land-based spas beyond the dates which we may have announced to the public. Risks Related to Quality of Training at Our Schools Prospective employers of graduates of our schools require new employees to have received training reflecting the latest methods for performing the services involved. If our training is unable to keep pace with the constantly changing demands of consumers in the spa and beauty services areas, this could adversely affect the ability of our students to find employment after completing their training with us, which could, in turn, have an adverse affect on our ability to attract students. Risks Related to Student Enrollment and Retention and Faculty Retention at Our Schools In order for our schools to be successful, we must enroll and retain students at rates which would support such success. While we use a variety of means to market our schools to prospective students, among other things, the competition for students among schools similar to ours and other types of post-secondary schools, is intense. The failure to maintain student enrollment and retention rates at sufficient levels could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of our schools. The financial aid and assistance programs, in which most of our schools' students participate, are subject to political and budgetary considerations. There is no assurance that funding for such programs will be maintained at current levels. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, Title IV program funds would likely have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of our schools because the schools' student enrollment would be likely to decline, as many of our students would be unable to finance their education without the availability of Title IV program funds. The continued tightening of credit markets have resulted in some providers of loans ceasing to provide loans to students or reducing the availability and attractiveness of loans to students, including high credit risk individuals who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based loans. To the extent that significant student loan providers determine to broadly restrict or cease their student lending activities, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if prospective students of ours consist, to a significantly greater extent than our current student body, of higher credit risk individuals, those students could have difficulty obtaining financing for their tuition payments to us and this could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, new regulatory requirements under Regulation Z (Truth in Lending) revise and expand disclosure requirements, which could result in higher administrative costs related to student loan programs, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as some students may decide not to enroll. Market conditions and recent regulatory developments also have caused some lenders to cease providing Title IV loans to students. Other lenders have reduced the benefits and increased the fees associated with the Title IV loans they do provide. If the costs of Title IV loans increase or if the availability of such loans decreases, some students may decide not to enroll in our schools. We offer payment plans to help students pay that portion of their education expense not covered by financial aid programs, including plans under which these balances are unsecured and not guaranteed. Losses related to unpaid student balances could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of our schools. Any further action by the U.S. Congress, DOE or other regulatory bodies that significantly reduce funding for Title IV programs or the ability of our students to participate in these programs, or restrict our ability to offer extended payment plans or establish different or more stringent requirements for our schools to participate in Title IV programs or to offer such extended payment plans, could have a material adverse effect on our student population, results of operations and cash flows. The success of our schools also depends on our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of faculty members with appropriate qualifications and experience, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain such faculty when, and in the locations, needed. 31 High Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Attract and Retain Students Increases in interest rates result in a corresponding increase in the cost to some of our existing and prospective students of financing their education. This could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our schools and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Higher interest rates also could contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students' repayment of loans. Higher default rates may, in turn, adversely impact the eligibility of a school to participate in Title IV programs and/or the willingness of private lenders to make private loan programs available to students who attend certain schools, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending those schools. Currently, only a small amount of the financing that our students receive is tied to interest rates that vary with prevailing interest rates. If the amount of floating interest rate-related financial aid received by our students increas es significantly, then the aforementioned risk would increase for us. Risks to our Schools Operations Related to Weather Four of our campuses are located in Florida, which, from time to time, experiences severe hurricanes. Such hurricanes cause businesses in that state, including some of our campuses, to close for varying periods of time. We also have campuses located in Colorado, Connecticut, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Utah. Almost every year during the winter months, each of the campuses in those locations is impacted to some extent by heavy snow and/or other severe weather conditions, resulting in closures of campuses from time to time, as has occurred during the winter of 2009 - 2010. To the extent that these types, or any other type, of severe weather occurs again in states where we operate our schools, some of our campuses could be required to close for periods of time which could, particularly if such severe weather results in damage to our facilities, materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of our schools. Prolonged closings of our schools due to adverse weather (or otherwise) also could adversely affect our ability to successfully market our schools to prospective students. Impact of a Protracted Economic Downturn on Our Schools We believe that many students pursue post-secondary education to be more competitive in the job market. While a number of post-secondary institutions, including ours, have reported increased enrollments despite the softness in the economy, a protracted economic downturn could further decrease job prospects, placement rates and the willingness of students to incur loans to pay for post secondary education, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of our schools, as enrollment would suffer. Government Regulation - General As described in more detail below, we are subject to a variety of governmental regulations with respect to our various operations. In addition to the requirements and limitations that these regulations currently impose on us, these regulations are subject to change that could further limit our activities. Additional regulations also could be adopted in the future that could add further requirements and/or limitations with respect to our business. Government Regulation - Schools We derive a large portion of our massage and beauty school revenue from students participating in federal student financial aid programs under Title IV of the HEA administered by the DOE. For these programs to be available to students, our schools must obtain and maintain authorization by the appropriate federal and state authorities and agencies recognized by the DOE and certification by the DOE. As a result, our schools are subject to extensive regulation by these agencies. These regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, payment of refunds to students who withdraw from school, acquisitions or openings of additional schools, additions of new educational programs and changes in our corporate structure. The agencies that regulate our operations periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. If one or more of our schools were to violate any of these regulatory requirements, we could suffer a financial penalty. A regulatory authority also could place limitations on our schools' operations or suspend or terminate our schools' ability to grant degrees and certificates or suspend or terminate eligibility to receive federal student financial aid funds on behalf of their students. Such violation also could result in loss of state licensure or accreditation. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these requirements will be applied, or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. Even if we are complying with applicable governmental and accrediting body requirements, increased regulatory scrutiny or adverse publicity arising from allegations of non-compliance may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and adversely affect the financial results of our schools. 32 To participate in federal student financial aid programs under the HEA, schools must meet certain measures of financial responsibility under DOE regulations, including achieving an acceptable composite score, which is calculated by combining the result of three separate financial ratios. If the composite score is below the minimum acceptable requirement but above a designated threshold level, the school may take advantage of a "zone alternative" that allows it to continue to participate in the Title IV programs for up to three years under certain requirements, including additional monitoring procedures and the heightened cash monitoring or reimbursement method of payment. If a school's composite score falls below this threshold level or is between the minimum for an acceptable composite score and the threshold for more than three consecutive years, the school will be required to post a letter of credit in favor of the DOE and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in the federal student financial aid programs, and may be subject to zone alternative and other requirements. While currently none of our schools is required to post such DOE letter of credit or accept such other conditions, if our schools fail to satisfy the applicable standards in the future, any required letter of credit, if obtainable, and any limitations on our participation in federal student financial aid programs, could adversely affect the results of operations of our schools. Our schools could lose their eligibility to participate in some or all of the federal student financial aid programs if defaults by students on their program loans equal or exceed specified rates or if our schools derive more than 90% of their revenue from federal student financial aid programs in any fiscal year. Additionally, any of our schools could lose its eligibility to participate in some or all of the federal student financial aid programs if defaults by its former students on their federally guaranteed or funded student loans equals or exceeds 25% per year for three consecutive years. The default rate for an applicable student group of an institution is calculated on an annual basis as the rate at which student borrowers scheduled to begin repayment of their loans in one federal fiscal year default on those loans by the end of the next federal fiscal year. In addition, the 2008 reauthorization of the HEA, called the Higher Education Opportunity Act ("HEOA"), made significant changes to the requirements governing the Title IV programs, including the provisions on default rates of applicable student groups. Under the HEOA, a separate calculation will be performed that will add an additional federal fiscal year of borrowers' repayment performance starting with the applicable student group that entered repayment between October 1, 2008 and September 30, 2009. After three years of applicable student group default rates calculated with the additional federal fiscal year are available, sanctions will be imposed if an institution has an applicable student group default rate, under the new calculation, of 30% or more for three consecutive federal fiscal years. The economic downturn could have an adverse impact on the ability of students to make repayments, thus increasing our schools' default rates. If any of our schools were to lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs because of high student loan default rates, it could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of our schools. Schools participating in Title IV programs may not provide any commission, bonus or any other incentive compensation based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollment or financial aid to any person or entity, engaging in any student recruitment or admission activity or making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV program funds. The law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances. If the DOE determined that our compensation practices violated these standards, the DOE could subject our schools to monetary fines or penalties or other sanctions. Any substantial fine, penalty or other sanction against our schools could have a material adverse effect on our schools' results of operations and financial condition. In the fall of 2009, the DOE initiated the process of negotiated rulemaking to make changes to certain provisions of the DOE regulations governing Title IV programs. Negotiated rulemaking is a process whereby the DOE consults with members of the higher education community to discuss issues and attempt to agree on regulatory revisions before the DOE formally proposes any regulations. Following the conclusion of the current negotiated rulemaking, the DOE is expected to issue proposed regulations for public comment. The DOE is expected to publish new final regulations by November 1, 2010, in which case those regulations would take effect on July 1, 2011. As part of the negotiated rulemaking discussions, the DOE has circulated a set of 14 draft regulations that, if promulgated as initially drafted, would make significant changes to certain of the current regulatory requirements, including many that are relevant to our schools, such as the following: satisfactory academic progress; monitoring grade point averages; incentive compensation; gainful employment in a recognized occupation; state authorization as a component of institutional eligibility; definition of a credit hour; verification of information included on a Free Application for Federal Student Aid ("FAFSA"); definition of a high school diploma for purposes of establishing eligibility to participate in student financial aid programs; misrepresentation of information provided to students and prospective students; agreements between institutions of higher education; retaking coursework; term-based module programs; institutions required to take attendance for purposes of certain return of Title IV funds requirements; and timeliness and method of disbursement of Title IV funds. At this time, we cannot be certain that the DOE will issue final regulations on each of these subjects or other subjects, what requirements may be included in those final regulations or how any new requirements may affect the ability of our students to remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs and comply with Title IV program standards. 33 The operation of our schools is required to be authorized by applicable agencies of the states in which they are located. These authorizations vary from state to state but, generally, require schools to meet tests relating to financial matters, administrative capabilities, educational criteria, the rates at which students complete their programs and the rates at which students are placed into employment. State authorization and accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by the DOE also are required for an institution to participate in the federal student financial aid programs. Requirements for state authorization and accreditation vary substantially among the applicable agencies. Loss of state authorization or accreditation by one or more of our campuses could have a material adverse effect on our student population and results of operations. Because our schools operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to audits, compliance reviews, inquiries, complaints, investigations, claims of non-compliance and lawsuits of federal and state governmental agencies, present and former students and employees and other third parties who may allege violations of any regulatory requirements applicable to our schools. If the results of any such claims are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, operational limitations, loss of federal funding or other sanctions. Even if we adequately address issues raised by any such claims or actions, we may have to devote significant financial and management resources to do so. In addition, claims that we failed to comply with applicable rules, even if without basis, could lead to adverse publicity about our schools, which could adversely affect our schools' results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, the operations of a number of companies in the for-profit post-secondary education industry have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing resulted in investigations by federal and state law enforcement agencies and others. These allegations, reviews and investigations of other companies and the accompanying adverse publicity could have a negative impact on the post-secondary education industry as a whole, and our schools' business. Our growth strategy with respect to our schools includes consideration of acquisitions that we believe would be beneficial to us, such as our acquisitions in recent years of UCMT and CCMT. In addition to the risks applicable to all acquisitions, such as the risk of our inability to successfully integrate the acquired business with our existing operations, any proposed acquisition of an institution that participates in federal student financial aid programs requires that we seek approval from the DOE and applicable state agencies and accrediting authorities. A change of ownership or control of an institution can result in the temporary suspension of the institution's participation in the federal student financial aid programs unless a timely and materially complete application for recertification is filed with the DOE and the DOE issues a temporary certification document. Once the final change of ownership approvals are received from the state licensing agencies and the accrediting authorities, the school must then apply to the DOE to obtain final approval for Title IV funding eligibility. If we are unable to obtain approvals from state agencies, accrediting agencies or the DOE for any institution we propose to acquire, the acquired schools would not be permitted to participate in federal student financial aid programs. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on the schools to be acquired and on our schools operations in general. We may also consider expanding our schools' operations through the creation of new schools or the establishment of branches in new locations of one or more of our existing schools, which expansion activities would subject us to the need for approval from the DOE and applicable state agencies and accrediting authorities, creating risks similar to the risks associated with acquisitions of new schools, as described above. If we open new schools or branch campuses of our existing schools or offer new programs before these new locations or program offerings receive the required regulatory approvals, our students at those schools or campuses, or in those programs, would not be eligible for Title IV financing. Increased regulation in recent years related to the operations of our schools has required us to increase the amount of funds we spend on compliance-related matters. While all our schools currently are eligible for students to receive federal funding, including loan funds, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such eligibility for our schools at all times in the future. Government Regulation - Products Our advertising and product labeling practices in the United States are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission and the Food and Drug Administration, as well as various other federal, state and local regulatory authorities. To the extent that the packaging or promotional materials for our products are deemed to be making claims of medical efficacy, this could result in closer scrutiny by regulatory authorities. If government regulators were to determine that any of our products were being sold through exaggerated claims of medical efficacy, among other things, sales of such products in the United States could be barred. The contents of our products that are sold in the United States also are subject to regulation in the United States. We are subject to similar regulation under the laws of the United Kingdom and certain European Union laws. Federal, state and local regulations in the United States and non-United States jurisdictions, designed to protect consumers or the environment, could increase the cost of, or otherwise materially adversely affect, the advertising, manufacturing and packaging of our products. Our products are also subject to rules relating to importation and sales in a number of the countries where we sell our products. These regulations require us to expend resources related to compliance with these rules in order to be able to import and/or sell our products in those countries. Government Regulation - Land-Based Spas Our land-based spa operations are subject to applicable regulations in the locations where such operations are conducted. These regulations could adversely affect our ability to sell, or could increase the cost of, our services and products. Among other things, local immigration laws could impede our ability to obtain work permits needed for employees at our land-based spas. 34 Product Liability and Other Potential Claims Could Adversely Affect Us The nature and use of our products and services could give rise to product liability or other claims if a customer were injured while receiving one of our services (including those performed by students at our schools) or were to suffer adverse reactions following the use of our products. Adverse reactions could be caused by various factors beyond our control, including hypoallergenic sensitivity and the possibility of malicious tampering with our products. Guests at our spa facilities also could be injured, among other things, in connection with their use of our fitness equipment. If any of these events occurred, we could incur substantial litigation expense and be required to make payments in connection with settlements of claims or as a result of judgments against us. We maintain insurance to cover a number of risks associated with our business. While we seek to obtain comprehensive insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates, we cannot be certain that appropriate insurance will be available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our insurance policies are subject to coverage limits, exclusions and deductible levels. In addition, in connection with insured claims, we bear the risks associated with the fact that insurers often control decisions relating to pre-trial settlement of claims and other significant aspects of claims and their decisions may prove to not be in our best interests in all cases. We believe that our current coverage is adequate to protect us against most of the significant risks involved in the conduct of our business, but we self-insure or use higher deductibles for various risks. Accordingly, we are not protected against all risks (including failures by third party service providers such as insurance brokers to fulfill their duties), which could result in unexpected increases in our expenses in the event of certain claims against us. As the types of services we offer increase, such as the additions of acupuncture, teeth whitening and other medi-spa services, the potential for claims against us also could increase. We self-insure potential claims regarding certain of our medi-spa services. High visibility claims also could cause us to receive adverse publicity and suffer a loss of sales, and, therefore, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 35 The Current Financial Environment Could Put Our Cash at Risk We maintain our cash and cash equivalents with reputable major financial institutions. Deposits with these banks exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. While we monitor daily the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if one or more of the financial institutions with which we deposit fails or is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. To date we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurance that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets. Our Credit Facility Financing Could Restrict Our Activities We have recently entered into a new credit facility in connection with our acquisition of Bliss Inc. That agreement contains certain affirmative, negative and financial covenants that could restrict us from taking actions which our management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of Steiner Leisure and its shareholders. These covenants would remain applicable even when there are no amounts outstanding under the credit facility. Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants could be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the credit facility. Upon the occurrence of such a default, the outstanding principal, together with all accrued interest under our credit facility will, at the option of our lenders, become immediately due and payable. All of our assets are subject to a security interest in favor of the lenders under our credit facility. If we were unable to repay amounts that become due under the credit facility when such repayment is due, our lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness and/or accelerate the due date of our indebtedness, either of which actions could materially adversely affect our business and operations. Need for Growth in Product Sales and Risk Relating to Retail Rollouts In order for us to grow, we need to find additional sources of revenue. In addition to our recent acquisition of Bliss Inc., we have been placing additional emphasis on growth in sales of our principal existing product lines, Elemis and La Thérapie, apart from sales on cruise ships and at our land-based spas. While we believe that our Elemis and Bliss day spas assist us in our efforts to increase sales of those products, we cannot assure you that these spas will have significant positive effects on such distribution efforts because, among other things, those spas are few in number and located in only a limited geographic area. In recent years, in the British Isles and the United States, we have been selling our Elemis products in dedicated areas of well-known department stores and other retail establishments. Bliss and Remède products are also sold in well-known department stores. From time to time in the future we may announce additional agreements with retail venues to operate such dedicated Elemis sales areas. Those agreements may be in a non-written form and may otherwise not be formal commitments. Accordingly, even if we announce our intention to commence retail product sale operations at certain venues, we cannot provide assurance that, in fact, such operations will be effectuated in all instances. Our ability to grow our product sales, in addition to the challenges of competition described above, may be adversely affected by economic conditions. The weakened U.S. and other world economies, including the impact on consumers of higher fuel costs and tighter credit, has had an adverse effect on the discretionary spending of U.S. consumers, including spending on our products. This adversely affected our results of operations during 2008 and 2009 and the continuation or worsening of the economic slowdown could have a material adverse effect on our retail product sales for the balance of 2010 and thereafter during any such continuation or worsening. 36 Need to Expand our Services The demands of consumers with respect to spa services and products continue to evolve. Among other things, there is a trend to add services at spa facilities similar to those traditionally provided in medical facilities, including services relating to skin care. In order for us to maintain our base of customers and expand our spa business, we must continue to expand our menu of services to keep up with these demands, as we have done in recent years by offering teeth whitening, acupuncture and medi-spa services. These services, as well as other services that consumers may demand, may enhance our exposure to liability for injuries to our customers, including as a result of our inability to obtain insurance for some of the treatments. Our ability to provide certain additional services depends on our ability to find appropriate third parties with whom to work in connection with these services and, in certain cases, could be dependent on our ability to fund substantial costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find such appropriate third parties or be able to fund such costs. Our Business Could be Adversely Affected if We are Unable to Successfully Protect Our Trademarks or Obtain new Trademarks The market for our services and, particularly, our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our brand names. Although we take appropriate steps to protect our brand names, in the future, we may not be successful in asserting trademark protection in connection with our efforts to grow our business or otherwise. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. If other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, the value of our brands in the marketplace may be diluted. In addition, any infringement of our intellectual property rights would likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. One or more adverse judgments with respect to these intellectual property rights could negatively impact our ability to compete and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are not a United States Company and, as a Result, there are Special Risks Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association, which are similar to the articles of incorporation and bylaws of a United States corporation, and the International Business Companies Act, 2000 of The Bahamas (the "IBC Act"). There are very few reported judicial cases under the IBC Act. Accordingly, the rights and remedies of our public shareholders in the face of actions by our management, directors or shareholders are less clearly established than would be the case with a company incorporated in a United States jurisdiction or in another country, such as the United Kingdom. Certain of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. A substantial portion of our assets and the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to affect service of process within the United States upon such persons. It also may not be possible to enforce against them or Steiner Leisure judgments obtained in United States courts based on the civil liability provisions of the United States or the federal securities laws. In the opinion of Harry B. Sands, Lobosky and Company, our Bahamas counsel: it is unlikely that Bahamian courts would entertain original actions against Bahamas companies or their directors or officers based solely upon United States federal securities laws; judgments predicated upon any civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws are not directly enforceable in The Bahamas; rather, a lawsuit must be brought in The Bahamas on any such judgment; and in general, a judgment obtained after due trial by a court of competent jurisdiction, which is final and conclusive as to the issues in contention, is actionable in Bahamian courts and is impeachable only upon the grounds of fraud, public policy and natural justice. 37 Currency Risk Because we pay for the administration of recruitment and training of our shipboard personnel and the manufacturing of ingredients and of our products in U.K. Pounds Sterling and Euros, the weakness in recent years of the U.S. Dollar against those currencies has adversely affected our results of operations. The U.S. Dollar strengthened significantly in the second half of 2008, favorably affecting our results, but during 2009 again weakened against the U.K. Pound Sterling; however, to the extent that the U.K. Pound Sterling or the Euro again becomes stronger against the U.S. Dollar, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Computer Networks Our business relies to a significant extent on our computer networks. These networks, similar to computer networks in many businesses, may be vulnerable to service interruptions or malfunctions, including those related to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security threats. In addition to the adverse effects on our business in general of an interruption in the operation of our computer networks, a user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information of Steiner or our customers or cause disruptions to, or malfunctions in, our operations. Accordingly, among other things, we may be required, from time to time, to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of service interruptions and these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches and we may also be liable to customers or other third parties if their information is accessed by hackers or other unauthorized third parties. Changes in Privacy Law Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Market Our Services and Products Effectively Our ability to market our services and products effectively is an important component of our business. We rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing, and direct mail. Any further restrictions in laws such as the Telemarketing Sales Rule, CANSPAM Act, and various U.S. state laws or new federal laws regarding marketing and solicitation, or international data protection laws that govern these activities, could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of telemarketing, email, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. If this were to occur, we may be unable to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact our ability to effectively market and sell our services and products. In addition, we collect information relating to our customers and the students at our schools for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data, such as, among other things, credit card information, is governed by privacy laws and regulations of the United States and other jurisdictions. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and, occasionally, may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our services and products and serve our customers. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us or, in some instances, non-compliance by third parties engaged by us, or a breach of security systems storing our data may result in fines, payment of damages or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. Anti-takeover Provisions Limit Shareholders' Ability to Affect a Change in Management or Control Our Articles of Association ("Articles") include certain provisions which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a future takeover or change in control of Steiner Leisure that shareholders may consider to be in their best interests. Among other things, our Articles provide for a classified board of directors serving staggered terms of three years, super majority voting requirements with respect to certain significant transactions and restrictions on certain transactions with holders of 15% or more of the voting shares of Steiner Leisure. We have an authorized class of 10,000,000 Preferred Shares that may be issued in one or more series by our board of directors (our "Board") without further action by the shareholders on such terms and with such rights, preferences and designations as our Board may determine. Furthermore, our Amended and Restated 1996 Share Option and Incentive Plan, our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, our 2009 Incent ive Plan and our officers' employment agreements provide certain rights to plan participants and those officers, respectively, in the event of a change in control of Steiner Leisure. In addition, certain of our cruise line and land-based spa agreements provide the other parties with rights of termination in the event of certain changes in control of Steiner Leisure. 38 Our Share Price Has Fluctuated and Could Fluctuate Significantly Since our common shares have commenced being publicly traded, the market price of our shares has fluctuated over a wide range and may continue to do so in the future. The market price of our common shares could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including, among other things: general economic or market conditions, such as the economic slowdown currently being experienced; the depth and liquidity of the trading market for our common shares; quarterly variations in our actual or anticipated operating results; changes in recommendations or estimates of our earnings or cruise industry earnings by analysts; market conditions in the travel, leisure and cruise industries; announcements or activities by our competitors; and the market price of shares of our cruise line or land-based customers. Any such event could result in a material decline in the price of our common shares. 39 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 