Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains or incorporates a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industry and markets in which we operate and management’s beliefs and assumptions. Any statements contained herein (including without limitation statements to the effect that we or our management “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “plan” and similar expressions) that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in this report. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, those set forth below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses. We have a history of operating losses. Our business operations began in 1993 and, except for fiscal years 1996 and 2000, have resulted in net losses in each fiscal year, including a net loss of $7.4 million in 2005. At December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $56.4 million. We will continue to invest in the development of our secure credential and biometric technologies. Accordingly, we cannot predict when or if we will ever achieve profitability on an annual basis. We derive over 90% of our revenue from government contracts, which are often non-standard, involve competitive bidding, may be subject to cancellation with or without penalty and may produce volatility in earnings and revenue. More than 90% of our business involves providing products and services under contracts with U.S. federal, state, local and foreign government agencies. Obtaining contracts from government agencies is challenging and government contracts often include provisions that are not standard in private commercial transactions. For example, government contracts may: • include provisions that allow the government agency to terminate the contract without penalty under some circumstances; • be subject to purchasing decisions of agencies that are subject to political influence; • include bonding requirements; • contain onerous procurement procedures; and • be subject to cancellation or reduction if government funding becomes unavailable or is cut back. Securing government contracts can be a protracted process involving competitive bidding. In many cases, unsuccessful bidders may challenge contract awards, which can lead to increased costs, delays and possible loss of the contract for the winning bidder. Protests, and similar delays, regarding any future government contracts of a material nature that may be awarded to us could result in materially adverse revenue volatility, making management of inventory levels, cash flow and profitability or loss inherently difficult. Outright loss of any material government contract through the protest process or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s financial results and stock price. Similar to federal government contracts, state and local government agency contracts may be contingent upon availability of matching funds from federal, state or local entities. State and local law enforcement and 17 Table of Contents other government agencies are subject to political, budgetary, purchasing and delivery constraints which may continue to result in quarterly and annual revenues and operating results that may be irregular and difficult to predict. Such revenue volatility makes management of inventory levels, cash flow and profitability inherently difficult. In addition, if we are successful in winning such procurements, there may be unevenness in shipping schedules, as well as potential delays and changes in the timing of deliveries and recognition of revenue, or cancellation of such procurements. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few customers, the loss of which could have an adverse effect on our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2005, one customer, U.S. Department of State, accounted for 27.5% of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2004, two customers, Telos Corporation (U.S. Department of Defense) and U.S. Department of State each accounted for over 10% of our revenue and an aggregate of 31.0% of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2003, two customers, Pennsylvania Department of Transportation and Illinois Secretary of State, each accounted for over 10% of our revenues and an aggregate of 26.6% of our revenue. The loss of any of our significant customers would cause revenue to decline and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive revenue from only a limited number of products and services and we do not have a diversified product or service base. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from the sale of products and services comprising our identity solutions. We anticipate that substantially all of the growth in our revenue, if any, will also be derived from these sources. If for any reason our sale of these products or services is impeded, and we have not diversified our product and service offerings, our business and results from operations could be harmed. We could face adverse consequences as a result of our late SEC filings. We failed to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and our Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 3, 2005 in order to provide additional time for Viisage, Viisage’s independent auditors and Viisage’s outside counsel to complete a review of litigation involving Viisage and to assess its effect, if any, on Viisage’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004. As a result, we will not be eligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 until June 30, 2006, and may not be eligible to use a short form registration statement if we fail to satisfy the conditions required to use such registration statement on or after such date. Our inability to use a short form registration statement until June 30, 2006 or thereafter may impair our ability or increase the costs and complexity of our efforts, to raise funds in the public markets or use our stock as consideration in acquisitions should we desire to do so during this one year period. In addition, if we are unable to remain current in our future filings, we may face additional adverse consequences, including (1) an inability to have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 covering a public offering of securities declared effective by the SEC, (2) an inability to make offerings pursuant to existing registration statements (including registration statements on Form S-8 covering employee stock plans) or pursuant to certain “private placement” rules of the SEC under Regulation D to any purchasers not qualifying as “accredited investors,” (3) the possible delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ National Market, and (4) limitations on the ability of our affiliates to sell our securities pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. These restrictions may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees and may further impair our ability to raise funds in the public markets should we desire to do so or use our stock as consideration in acquisitions. In addition, our future success depends largely upon the support of our customers, suppliers and investors. The late SEC filings have resulted in negative publicity and may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. The effects of the late SEC filings could cause some of our customers or potential customers to refrain from purchasing or defer decisions to purchase our products and services. Additionally, current or potential suppliers may re-examine their willingness to do business with us, to develop critical interfaces to our 18 Table of Contents products or to supply products and services if they lose confidence in our ability to fulfill our commitments. Any of these losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial and business prospects. We have been named as a defendant in a putative class action lawsuit, an adverse outcome in which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by adversely affecting our cash position. As described below in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in March and April 2005, eight putative class action lawsuits were filed against us in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. These lawsuits have been consolidated into one action under one case name: In re: Viisage Technology Securities Litigation, Civil Action No. 05-10438-MLW. The amended consolidated complaint which was filed in February 2006 alleges violations of the federal securities laws by us and certain of our officers and directors arising out of purported misstatements and omissions in our SEC filings related to the litigation involving the Georgia drivers’ license contract and related to our reported material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting, which allegedly artificially inflated the price of our stock during the period May 12, 2004 through March 2, 2005. We are not able to estimate the amount of the loss allegedly suffered by members of the putative class or the amount of legal costs and internal efforts associated with defending ourselves and our officers and directors. If we are unsuccessful in defending ourselves in this litigation, this lawsuit could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as a result of the damages that we would be required to pay. It is possible that our insurance policies either may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. While we believe that the allegations and claims made in this lawsuit are wholly without merit and we intend to defend the action vigorously, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in this litigation. We have taken an impairment charge to assets of $2.0 million due to Georgia litigation; if we are unable to use the remaining assets from that contract, we may be required to take further impairment charges which could negatively affect our earnings. In December 2004, the superior court for Fulton County, Georgia granted summary judgment in favor of Georgia’s Department of Motor Vehicle Safety, or DMVS, in connection with litigation brought by Digimarc ID Systems, LLC in March 2003 alleging that DMVS did not comply with its own bid process when it selected Viisage as the vendor for its new digital drivers’ license program. In July 2003, the court had issued a preliminary injunction prohibiting DMVS from continuing to work with us to install the State’s new drivers’ license system. In July 2004, we reached a settlement agreement with the State pursuant to which DMVS terminated the contract for convenience and agreed to pay us $2.0 million in cash and the State agreed to purchase certain equipment from us for $500,000. In its December 2004 ruling, the Georgia court authorized DMVS to issue a new request for proposals for a digital drivers’ license system, but disallowed the $2.0 million cash payment described above. Without this payment, we believe that either the settlement agreement with DMVS is not effective and that our contract with DMVS remains in place, or that our initial claim for an $8.2 million settlement payment is revived. The State has paid us the $500,000 for the equipment and we appealed the disallowance of the $2.0 million settlement payment. In May 2005, the Georgia Supreme Court voted not to hear our appeal of the summary judgment ruling on procedural grounds. Due to the uncertainty of the cash settlement as a result of the judge’s ruling and the uncertainty of future cash flows from this contract to support the book value of certain system assets installed, we have identified $2.2 million of assets deployed within the state that we have deemed to have no alternative use. We reduced the recorded value of these assets from approximately $2.2 million to their estimated fair value of approximately $200,000 based on our estimate of realizable value from liquidation of these assets, which resulted in a $2.0 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2004. In addition, we removed the contract from our backlog, and will lose up to $19.7 million in revenue that we expected to recognize over the next five and one-half years, unless the contract remains in place or we are able to win the new contract for the digital drivers’ license system and the revenues from such new contract are substantially similar to the prior contract. We also have evaluated for impairment the remaining $2.9 million in assets being retained by us from the Georgia contract. These consist of approximately $1.1 million of assets that we anticipate 19 Table of Contents using in Georgia if we win the contract based on the new request for proposals, approximately $150,000 of assets that we anticipate could either be used in Georgia under a new contract or used in other projects, and approximately $1.6 million of assets constituting our central production facility in Georgia. We have determined that these assets are not currently impaired. While we believe we can utilize these assets either in Georgia, if we win the new contract, or on alternative projects, to the extent that we are unable to utilize these assets or realize value through a sale of these assets or reach a new settlement with DMVS regarding these assets, we would be required to take a further charge to earnings. If we are unable to successfully address the material weakness in our internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Such report must also contain a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal controls. Management’s report and our auditors’ attestation report are included in this report on Form 10-K under Item 8. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our management concluded there was a material weakness regarding the effectiveness of the financial statement close process. This material weakness could result in a material misstatement to the annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Because of this material weakness, management has concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. Management has identified certain steps designed to address the material weakness described above, and has begun to execute remediation plans, as discussed in Item 8 of this report on Form 10-K, “Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting”. Any failure to implement in a timely manner and maintain the improvements in the controls over our financial reporting that we are currently putting in place, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of these improvements in our controls, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, to fail to produce reliable financial reports or to prevent fraud. Any failure to improve our internal controls to address this identified weakness could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and stock price. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and capital expenditures. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ National Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as us. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. 20 Table of Contents Our strategy of expanding our biometric products business could adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. Part of our strategy is to enhance our leadership in biometric technologies. Pursuing this strategy involves risks. For instance, to date, biometric technologies have not gained widespread commercial acceptance. Some of the obstacles to widespread acceptance of biometric products include a perceived loss of privacy and public perceptions as to the usefulness of biometric products. Whether the market for biometric technologies will expand will be dependent upon factors such as: • national or international events which may affect the need for or interest in biometric products or services; • the cost, performance and reliability of the combined company’s products and services and those of its competitors; • customers’ perception of the perceived benefit of biometric products and services and their satisfaction with the combined company’s products and services; • public perceptions of the intrusiveness of these products and services and the manner in which firms are using the information collected; • public perceptions regarding the confidentiality of private information; • proposed or enacted legislation related to privacy of information; and • marketing efforts and publicity regarding these products and services. We do not know when, if ever, biometric products will gain widespread commercial acceptance. Certain groups have publicly objected to the use of biometric products for some applications on civil liberties grounds and legislation has been proposed to regulate the use of biometric security products. From time to time, biometrics technologies have been the focus of organizations and individuals seeking to curtail or eliminate such technologies on the grounds that they may be used to diminish personal privacy rights. If such initiatives result in restrictive legislation, the market for biometric solutions may be adversely affected. Even if biometric technologies gain wide market acceptance, our products and services may not adequately address the requirements of the market and may not gain wide market acceptance. We face intense competition, which could result in lower revenues and higher research and development expenditures and could adversely affect ours results of operations. The events of September 11, 2001 and subsequent regulatory and policy changes in the U.S. and abroad have heightened interest in the use of biometric security solutions, and we expect competition in this field, which is already substantial, to intensify. Competitors are developing and marketing semiconductor or optically based direct contact fingerprint image capture devices, or retinal blood vessel, iris pattern, hand geometry, voice or various types of facial structure solutions. Our products also will compete with non-biometric technologies such as certificate authorities and traditional keys, cards, surveillance systems and passwords. Widespread adoption of one or more of these technologies or approaches in the markets we intend to target could significantly reduce the potential market for our systems and products. Many of our competitors have significantly more cash and resources than we have. Our competitors may introduce products that are competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality or incorporate technological advances that we have not yet developed or implemented. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop, market and sell new and enhanced systems and products at competitive prices, which will require significant research and development expenditures. If we do not develop new and enhanced products or if we are not able to invest adequately in their research and development activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. 21 Table of Contents Unless we keep pace with changing technologies, we could lose existing customers and fail to win new customers. In order to compete effectively in the biometrics market, we must continually design, develop and market new and enhanced products at competitive prices and we must have the resources available to invest in significant research and development activities. Ours future success will depend upon our ability to address the changing and sophisticated needs of the marketplace. Frequently, technical development programs in the biometric industry require assessments to be made of the future directions of technology and technology markets generally, which are inherently risky and difficult to predict. We may not be able to accurately predict which technologies customers will support. If we do not introduce new products, services and enhancements in a timely manner, if we fail to choose correctly among technical alternatives or if we fail to offer innovative products and services at competitive prices, customers may forego purchases of our products and services and purchase those of our competitors. Security breaches in systems that we sell or maintain could result in the disclosure of sensitive government information or private personal information that could result in the loss of clients and negative publicity. Many of the systems we sell manage private personal information and protect information involved in sensitive government functions. The protective measures that we use in these systems may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt the combined company’s business, damage its reputation, and expose it to litigation and liability. A party who is able to circumvent security measures used in these systems could misappropriate sensitive or proprietary information or materials or cause interruptions or otherwise damage our products, services and reputation, and the property of our customers. If unintended parties obtain sensitive data and information, or create bugs or viruses or otherwise sabotage the functionality of our systems, we may receive negative publicity, incur liability to our customers or lose the confidence of our customers, any of which may cause the termination or modification of its contracts. Further, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses and liabilities that may result from such events. In addition, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect ourselves against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. However, protective or remedial measures may not be available at a reasonable price or at all, or may not be entirely effective if commenced. SecuriMetrics’ intellectual property rights and revenues may be adversely affected if it does not prevail in the litigation between SecuriMetrics and Iridian Technologies, Inc. As described below in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, SecuriMetrics is engaged in litigation with Iridian Technologies, Inc. (Iridian) regarding certain license and related agreements for iris technology that SecuriMetrics has entered into with Iridian. SecuriMetrics and Viisage may not prevail in the litigation between SecuriMetrics and Iridian. Viisage’s acquisition of SecuriMetrics may have an unforeseen and adverse impact on SecuriMetrics’ prosecution of the litigation between SecuriMetrics and Iridian. In the event SecuriMetrics does not prevail in this litigation or does not settle this litigation, SecuriMetrics’ intellectual property rights and revenues may be adversely affected. The substantial lead-time required for ordering products and materials may lead to inventory write-offs or loss of sales. The lead-time for ordering products and materials and building many of our products can be many months. As a result, we must order products and materials based on forecasted demand. If demand for our products lags significantly behind our forecasts, we may purchase more products than we can sell, which can result in increased cash needs and write-offs or write-downs of obsolete or excess inventory. In addition, if product purchases are delayed, we may lose customers and sales. 22 Table of Contents Loss of limited source suppliers may result in delays or additional expenses. We obtain certain hardware and services, as well as software applications, from a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves significant risks, including reduced control over quality and delivery schedules. In particular, we are dependent on Toppan Printing Co. Ltd. for all of the printers and consumables for the U.S. Department of State passport contract and the Department of Defense common access card contract. Any financial instability of our manufacturers or contractors could result in our having to find new suppliers. We may experience significant delays in manufacturing and deliveries of our products and services to customers if we lose our sources or if supplies and services delivered from these sources are delayed. As a result, we may be required to incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply. It may take several months to locate alternative suppliers, if required, or to re-tool our products to accommodate components from different suppliers. We cannot predict if we will be able to obtain replacement components within the time frames we require at an affordable cost, or at all. Any delays resulting from suppliers failing to deliver components or obtain alternative service providers, products or services on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities and of sufficient quality or any significant increase in our costs of components from existing or alternative suppliers could have a severe negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for our solutions is still developing and if the industry adopts standards or a platform different from our platform, then our competitive position would be negatively affected. The market for identity solutions is still emerging. The evolution of this market is in a constant state of flux that may result in the development of different technologies and industry standards that are not compatible with our current products or technologies. In particular, the face recognition market lacks industry-wide standards. Several organizations, such as the International Civil Aviation Organization, which sets standards for travel documents that its member states then put into effect, and the National Institute for Standards and Testing, which is part of the U.S. Department of Commerce, have recently selected face recognition as the biometric to be used in identification documentation. It is possible, however, that these standards may change and that any standards eventually adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with our business model and product lines. Legal claims regarding infringement by us or our suppliers of third party intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs, diversion of managerial resources and harm to our reputation. Although we believe that our products and services do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we might not be able to defend successfully against a third-party infringement claim. A successful infringement claim against us or our suppliers could subject us to: • liability for damages and litigation costs, including attorneys’ fees; • lawsuits that prevent us from further use of the intellectual property; • having to license the intellectual property from a third party, which could include significant licensing fees; • having to develop a non-infringing alternative, which could be costly and delay projects; • having to indemnify clients with respect to losses they incurred as a result of the alleged infringement; and • having to establish alternative sources for products supplied to us by third parties, as discussed above in the risk factor regarding their dependence on limited source suppliers. Even if we are not found liable in a claim for intellectual property infringement, such a claim could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources and management attention, termination of customer contracts and harm to our reputation. 23 Table of Contents Our plan to pursue sales in international markets may be limited by risks related to conditions in such markets. In the year ended December 31, 2005, Viisage derived approximately 9% of its total revenues from international sales. We have a local presence in Germany. There is a risk that we may not be able to successfully market, sell and deliver our products in foreign countries. Risks inherent in marketing, selling and delivering products in foreign and international markets, each of which could have a severe negative impact on our financial results and stock price, include those associated with: • regional economic or political conditions; • delays in or absolute prohibitions on exporting products resulting from export restrictions for certain products and technologies, including “crime control” products and encryption technology; • loss of, or delays in importing products, services and intellectual property developed abroad, resulting from unstable or fluctuating social, political or governmental conditions; • fluctuations in foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar; • loss of revenue, property (including intellectual property) and equipment from expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, terrorism, criminal acts and other political and social risks; • the overlap of different tax structures; • seasonal reductions in business activity; • risks of increases in taxes and other government fees; and • involuntary renegotiations of contracts with foreign governments. We expect that we will have increased exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. Net revenue and related expenses generated from Viisage’s operations in Germany are denominated in euros. The results of operations and balance sheet associated with this location are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated other comprehensive loss includes foreign currency translation adjustments of $2.4 million. In addition to our German operation, we have significant Japanese yen-denominated transactions with Japanese vendors supplying hardware and consumables for the delivery of certain large contracts. Fluctuations in foreign currencies, including our Japanese yen-denominated transactions could result in unexpected fluctuations to its results of operations, which could be material and adverse. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by governmental funding policies, statutory procurement, and performance requirements. We extend substantial credit to federal, state and local governments in connection with sales of our products and services. In addition, contracts may specify performance criteria that must be satisfied before the customer accepts the products and services. Collection of accounts receivable may be dependent on meeting customer requirements, which may be unpredictable, subject to change by the customer, and not fully understood by us at the time of acceptance of the order, and may involve investment of additional resources. These investments of additional resources are accrued when amounts can be estimated but may be uncompensated and negatively affect profit margins and our liquidity. Generally, government contracts are subject to annual appropriations of the funds by the legislature. Additionally, government agencies both domestically and internationally may successfully assert the right to terminate business or funding relationships with us at their sole discretion without adequate or any compensation or recourse for us, even if the funding has been appropriated by the legislature. 24 Table of Contents If we do not successfully expand our direct sales and services organizations and partnering arrangements, we may not be able to increase our sales or support our customers. We sell substantially all of our services and license substantially all of our products through our direct sales organization. Our future success depends on substantially increasing the size and scope of our direct sales force and partnering arrangements, both domestically and internationally. We will face intense competition for personnel, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain additional qualified sales personnel on a timely basis. Moreover, given the large-scale deployment required by some of our customers, we will need to hire and retain a number of highly trained customer service and support personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase the size of our customer service and support organization on a timely basis to provide the high quality of support required by our customers. Failure to add additional sales and customer service representatives could result in our inability to increase sales and support our customers. We rely in part upon original equipment manufacturers, or OEM, and distribution partners to distribute our products, and they may be adversely affected if those parties do not actively promote their products or pursue installations that use their equipment. A significant portion of our revenue comes from sales to partners including OEMs, systems integrators, distributors and resellers. Some of these relationships have not been formalized in a detailed contract, and may be subject to termination at any time. Even where these relationships are formalized in a detailed contract, the agreements are often terminable with little or no notice and subject to periodic amendment. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources that our partners devote to activities on their behalf. We intend to continue to seek strategic relationships to distribute, license and sell certain of our products. We, however, may not be able to negotiate acceptable relationships in the future and cannot predict whether current or future relationships will be successful. The success of our strategic plan to grow sales and develop relationships in Europe may be limited by risks related to conducting business in European markets. Part of our strategy will be to increase sales and build additional relationships in European markets. Risks inherent in marketing, selling and developing relationships in European markets include those associated with: • economic conditions in European markets, including fluctuations in the relative values of the U.S. dollar and the Euro; • taxes and fees imposed by European governments that may increase the cost of products and services; and • laws and regulations imposed by individual countries and by the European Union. In addition, European intellectual property laws are different than U.S. intellectual property laws and we will have to ensure that our intellectual property is adequately protected in foreign jurisdictions and that ZN’s intellectual property is adequately protected in the United States. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors could use our proprietary technologies in non-protected jurisdictions and put us at a competitive disadvantage. If our systems and products are not timely delivered or do not perform as promised, we could experience increased costs, lower margins, liquidated damage payment obligations and harm to our reputation. We will be required to provide complex systems that will be required to operate on an “as needed” basis. This may in turn lead to delays or shortages in the availability of certain products, or, in some cases, the unavailability of certain products. The negative effects of any delay or failure could be exacerbated if the delay or failure occurs in products that provide personal security, secure sensitive computer data, authorize significant financial transactions or perform other functions where a security breach could have significant consequences. If a product launch is delayed or is the subject of an availability shortage because of problems with our ability to 25 Table of Contents manufacture or assemble the product successfully on a timely basis, or if a product or service otherwise fails to meet performance criteria, we may lose revenue opportunities entirely and/or experience delays in revenue recognition associated with a product or service in addition to incurring higher operating expenses during the period required to correct the defects. There is a risk that for unforeseen reasons we may be required to repair or replace a substantial number of products in use or to reimburse customers for products that fail to work or meet strict performance criteria. We attempt to limit remedies for product failure to the repair or replacement of malfunctioning or noncompliant products or services, and also attempt to exclude or minimize exposure to product and related liabilities by including in our standard agreements warranty disclaimers and disclaimers for consequential and related damages as well as limitations on our aggregate liability. From time to time, in certain complex sale or licensing transactions, we may negotiate liability provisions that vary from such standard forms. There is a risk that their contractual provisions may not adequately minimize our product and related liabilities or that such provisions may be unenforceable. We carry product liability insurance, but existing coverage may not be adequate to cover potential claims. Although we will deploy back-up systems, the failure of our products to perform as promised could result in increased costs, lower margins, liquidated damage payment obligations and harm to our reputation. This could result in contract terminations and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Failure to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology, intellectual property and manufacturing processes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, stock price, and our ability to compete effectively. We principally rely upon patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and contract law to establish and protect our proprietary rights. There is a risk that claims allowed on any patents or trademarks we hold may not be broad enough to protect our technology. In addition, our patents or trademarks may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and we cannot be certain that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. Moreover, any current or future issued or licensed patents, or trademarks, or currently existing or future developed trade secrets or know-how may not afford sufficient protection against competitors with similar technologies or processes, and the possibility exists that certain of our already issued patents or trademarks may infringe upon third party patents or trademarks or be designed around by others. In addition, there is a risk that others may independently develop proprietary technologies and processes, which are the same as, substantially equivalent or superior to ours, or become available in the market at a lower price. We may have to litigate to enforce our patents or trademarks or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights. Litigation could be very costly and divert management’s attention. An adverse outcome in any litigation may have a severe negative effect on our financial results and stock price. To determine the priority of inventions, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or oppositions in foreign patent and trademark offices, which could result in substantial cost and limitations on the scope or validity of our patents or trademarks. In addition, foreign laws treat the protection of proprietary rights differently from laws in the United States and may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. The failure of foreign laws or judicial systems to adequately protect our proprietary rights or intellectual property, including intellectual property developed on our behalf by foreign contractors or subcontractors may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial results and stock price. If we fail to adequately manage our resources, it could have a severe negative impact on our financial results or stock price. We could be subject to fluctuations in technology spending by existing and potential customers. Accordingly, we will have to actively manage expenses in a rapidly changing economic environment. This could require reducing costs during economic downturns and selectively growing in periods of economic expansion. In 26 Table of Contents addition, we will be required to implement operational, financial and management information procedures and controls that are efficient and appropriate for the size and scope of our operations. The management skills and systems currently in place may not be adequate, and we may not be able to manage any significant cost reductions or effectively provide for our growth. We may be unable to obtain additional capital required to fund our operations and finance our growth. The installation of our secure credentials systems requires significant capital expenditures. Moreover, our strategy includes growth of our business through acquisitions. At December 31, 2005, we had cash of $72.4 million, $30 million of which was utilized to consummate the acquisition of SecuriMetrics. While we believe we have adequate capital to meet these requirements and have been successful in the past in obtaining financing for working capital, capital expenditures, and acquisitions, we expect to have ongoing capital needs as we continue to expand our business. If we require additional financing, we may be unsuccessful in raising additional financing or we may not be able to do so on terms that are not excessively dilutive to existing stockholders or less costly than existing sources of financing. Failure to secure additional financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon our development and expansion plans or to implement certain cost reduction initiatives resulting in the curtailment of our operations. If we fail to attract and retain qualified senior executive and key technical personnel, our ability to remain competitive could be adversely affected. We believe that the continued service of our executive officers will be important to our future growth and competitiveness. We expect to enter into new employment and/or service agreements with current Viisage, Identix and L-1 executives in connection with the Identix merger. These agreements are intended to provide the executives with incentives to remain employed by the combined company. However, we cannot assure you that we will reach agreement with these executives. In addition, we believe that the continued employment of key members of Viisage’s and Identix’ technical and sales staffs is important to the combined company. Most of Viisage’s and Identix’ employees are entitled to voluntarily terminate our relationship with Viisage or Identix, typically without any, or with only minimal, advance notice. The process of finding additional trained personnel to carry out our strategy could be lengthy, costly and disruptive. We may be unable to retain the services of all of our key employees or a sufficient number of them to execute our plans. In addition, we may be unable to attract new employees as required. Our quarterly results could be volatile and may cause our stock price to fluctuate. We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results and we expect those fluctuations to continue. We expect that our quarterly results will continue to be affected by, among other things, factors such as: • unavailability or delays in authorization of government funding or cancellations, delays or contract amendments by government agency customers; • reduced demand for products and services caused, for example, by product offerings from new competitors; • the inability to timely and successfully (i) complete development of complex designs, components and products, (ii) complete new product introductions that may result in improved gross margins, (iii) manufacture in volume or install certain of the combined company’s complex products or (iv) obtain relevant government agency certifications for newly introduced products on a timely basis; • changes in the mix of products and services we or our distributors sell; • the readiness of customers to accept delivery of new products on a timely basis; • protests of federal, state or local government contract awards by competitors; 27 Table of Contents • unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation and/or administrative protest costs; • expenses related to acquisitions or mergers; • impairment charges arising out of our assessments of goodwill and intangibles; • other one-time financial charges; • the lack of availability or increase in cost of key components and subassemblies; • competitive pricing pressures; and • unpredictable product installation schedules. Particularly important is the need to invest in planned technical development programs to maintain and enhance our competitiveness, and to successfully develop and launch new products and services on a timely basis. Managing and improving the likelihood of success of such programs requires the development of budgets, plans and schedules for the execution of these programs and the adherence to such budgets, plans and schedules. The majority of such program costs are payroll and related staff expenses, and secondarily materials, subcontractors and promotional expenses. These costs are very difficult to adjust in response to short-term fluctuations in our revenues, compounding the difficulty of achieving profitability in the event of a revenue downturn. Our lengthy and variable sales cycle makes it difficult to predict operating results. Certain of our products often have a lengthy sales cycle while the customer evaluates and receives approvals for purchase. If, after expending significant funds and effort, we fail to receive an order, a negative impact on our financial results and stock price could result. It is difficult to predict accurately the sales cycle of any large order for any of our products. If we do not ship and or install one or more large orders as forecast for a fiscal quarter, our total revenues and operating results for that quarter could be materially and adversely affected. Certain of our stockholders have significant relationships with us, which could result in it taking actions that are not supported by unaffiliated stockholders. In connection with the Aston investment, Aston became the largest stockholder of Viisage, owning approximately 26.3% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, Lau Technologies, or Lau, and Mr. Buddy Beck, beneficially own approximately 7.54% and 7.93%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Aston (together with its affiliate, L-1), Lau and Mr. Beck have a strong influence on matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and most corporate actions, such as mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we have significant relationships with each of L-1, Aston, Lau and Mr. Beck, including: • Mr. Robert LaPenta, the founder and Chief Executive Officer of L-1, an affiliate of Aston, is Chairman of our board of directors and will become Chairman of the board of directors and Chief Executive Officer after the merger with Identix; • James DePalma and Joseph Paresi, who are affiliates of L-1 and Aston, will serve as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and as the Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing and Sales Officer, respectively, after the merger with Identix; • we acquired significant intellectual property, contracts and distribution channels through a transaction with Lau in January 2002 under which we agreed to pay Lau a 3.1% royalty on certain of our face recognition revenues through June 30, 2014, up to a maximum of $27.5 million; • in connection with the above transaction with Lau, we entered into consulting agreements with Joanna Lau, the President of Lau, and her spouse Denis K. Berube, the Chief Operating Officer of Lau who also serves as a director on our board of directors under which we will pay each of Ms. Lau and Mr. Berube $125,000 per year through the earlier of January 10, 2012 or the commencement of the consultant’s full-time employment elsewhere; 28 Table of Contents • Mr. Berube and Ms. Lau own a majority of Lau’s voting stock; • in connection with the acquisition of TDT in February 2004, Mr. Beck was elected a member of our board of directors; and • in connection with the acquisition of TDT, we entered into a consulting agreement with Mr. Beck under which we agreed to pay Mr. Beck $300,000 per year for two years, provided that Mr. Beck devotes his full business time to developing business opportunities for us; that consulting agreement will terminate on April 14, 2006. The concentration of large percentages of ownership in any single stockholder, or in any series of single stockholders, may delay or prevent change in control of Viisage. Additionally, the sale of a significant number of our shares in the open market by single stockholders or otherwise could adversely affect our stock price. Risks Related to the Pending Merger with Identix and Our Acquisition Strategy Integration of Viisage and Identix and other acquired businesses may be difficult to achieve and will consume significant financial and managerial resources, which may adversely affect operations. The proposed merger with Identix Incorporated involves risks related to the integration and management of technology, operations and personnel of two companies. The integration of the businesses of Viisage and Identix will be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may disrupt our business if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. Following the merger, Viisage and Identix must operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communications systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices. We face similar complexities related to acquisitions we completed prior to the merger, including the acquisitions of SecuriMetrics in February 2006, and Integrated Biometric Technology in December 2005. We may encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in integrating our operations with Identix and other acquired companies, including: • exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies or assets; • higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses; • potential conflicts between business cultures; • adverse changes in business focus perceived by third-party constituencies; • disruption of our ongoing business; • potential conflicts in distribution, marketing or other important relationships; • potential constraints of management resources; • inability to implement uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • failure to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful incorporation of acquired technology; • failure to realize the potential of acquired technologies, complete product development, or properly obtain or secure appropriate protection of intellectual property rights; and • loss of key employees and/or the diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns. In addition, we have offices in three locations and plan to move our corporate headquarters from Billerica, Massachusetts, to Stamford, Connecticut. Identix is headquartered in Minnesota and has employees in seven locations. The geographic distance between the companies and their respective offices and operations increases 29 Table of Contents the risk that the integration will not be completed successfully or in a timely and cost-effective manner. Viisage and Identix may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the integration of the companies. The combined company will also need to manage the integration of Integrated Biometric Technology LLC and SecuriMetrics, Inc., which were acquired in December 2005 and February 2006, respectively. The simultaneous integration of these acquisitions with the integration of Viisage and Identix may place additional strain on the combined company’s resources and increase the risk that the combined company’s business may be adversely affected by the disruption caused by the acquisitions. Our strategy contemplates acquiring additional businesses, the integration of which may consume significant financial and managerial resources, and could have a severe negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The exchange ratio for the Identix merger is fixed, so the market value of the consideration received by Identix stockholders will change as the market price of Viisage common stock goes up or down. The exchange ratio for the Identix merger is fixed at 0.473 of a share of Viisage common stock for each share of Identix common stock and will not be adjusted in the event of changes in the market prices of either the Identix common stock or the Viisage common stock. If the market price of Viisage common stock changes, the value of the consideration to be received by the Identix stockholders will also change. For instance, if the market price of Viisage common stock decreases, the value of the consideration to be received by the Identix stockholders will also decrease. On the other hand, if the market price of Viisage common stock increases, the value of the consideration to be received by the Identix stockholders will increase correspondingly. Neither company may terminate the merger agreement or elect not to complete the merger because of changes in their stock prices, unless such change is a result of a material adverse event, as defined in the merger agreement. During the 12-month period ended on March 10, 2006, the high and low sale prices for Viisage common stock ranged from $19.25 to $6.43, and the high and low sale prices for Identix common stock ranged from $8.48 to $4.30. The costs associated with the Identix merger are difficult to estimate, may be higher than expected and may harm the financial results of the combined company. We estimate that we will incur aggregate direct transaction costs of approximately $6 million associated with the merger plus costs to reimburse L-1 for strategic advice, due diligence and other services relating to the merger, which have not been finalized at this time. We also will incur costs associated with consolidation and integration of operations, which cannot be estimated accurately at this time. Additional costs may include costs of employee redeployment, relocation and retention, including salary increases or bonuses, accelerated amortization of deferred equity compensation and severance payments, reorganization or closure of facilities, relocation and disposition of excess equipment, and termination of contracts that provide redundant or conflicting services. Some of these costs may have to be accounted for as expenses that would decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those adjustments are made. If the total costs of the merger exceed estimates or the benefits of the merger do not exceed the total costs of the merger, the financial results of the combined company could be adversely affected. Our acquisitions could result in future impairment charges and other charges which could adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of our acquisitions of IBT, ZN, TDT, Imaging Automation and SecuriMetrics and the expected acquisition of Identix, goodwill and other intangible assets have been or will be recorded. The recorded amounts at the purchase date for goodwill and other intangible assets represent fair values estimated at a point in time and are based on valuations that require significant estimates and assumptions about future events, which are derived from information obtained from the management of the acquired businesses and our business plans for the acquired businesses or intellectual property. If estimates and assumptions used to initially record goodwill and intangible assets do not materialize, ongoing reviews of the carrying amounts of such goodwill and intangible 30 Table of Contents assets may result in impairments which will require us to record a charge in the period in which such an impairment is identified, which could have a severe negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The following factors also could result in material charges that would adversely affect our results: • charges for stock-based compensation; • accrual of newly identified pre-merger contingent liabilities, in which case the related charge could be required to be included in earnings in the period in which the accrual is determined to the extent it is identified subsequent to the finalization of the purchase price allocation; and • charges to income to eliminate certain Viisage pre-merger activities that duplicate those of the combined company or to reduce our cost structure. Completion of the Identix merger may result in dilution of future earnings per share to our stockholders. The completion of the merger with Identix may not result in improved earnings per share of Viisage or a financial condition superior to that which would have been achieved by either Viisage or Identix on a stand-alone basis. The merger could fail to produce the benefits that we anticipate, or could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. In addition, some of the assumptions that we have made, such as the achievement of operating synergies, may not be realized. In this event, the merger could result in a reduction of our earnings per share as compared to the earnings per share that we would have achieved if the merger had not occurred. Our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited as a result of the Identix merger. We have net operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax purposes of approximately $50.4 million at December 31, 2005, and have provided a full valuation allowances for the tax benefit of such losses as well as certain tax credit carryforwards. Utilization of these net operating loss and credit carryforwards are dependent upon the Company achieving profitable results following the merger. As a consequence of the merger, as well as earlier business combinations and issuances of shares of our common stock, utilization of the tax benefits of these carryforwards are subject to limitations imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The determination of the limitations is complex and requires significant judgment and analysis of past transactions. We have not completed the analyses required to determine what portion, if any, of these carryforwards will have their availability restricted or eliminated by that provision. Accordingly, some portion of these carryforwards may not be available to offset future taxable income, if any. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of effects of the merger. The market price of our common stock could decline if: • the integration with Identix is unsuccessful; • the combined company is unable to successfully market our products and services to Identix’ customers or Identix’ products and services to our customers; • the combined company does not achieve the perceived benefits of the merger as rapidly as, or to the extent, anticipated by financial or industry analysts, or such analysts do not perceive the same benefits to the merger as do Viisage and Identix; or • the effect of the merger on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. 31 Table of Contents Failure to complete the Identix merger could negatively affect our stock price, future business and operations. If the merger is not completed for any reason, we may be subject to a number of material risks, including the following: • we could be required to pay Identix a termination fee of $20 million if the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances; and • our costs and expenses related to the merger, which are substantial, must be paid even if the merger is not completed. If we do not achieve the expected benefits of the acquisitions we have made, the price of our common stock could decline. We expect that the Identix merger, as well as the acquisitions that we have made previously will enhance our leadership in the identity solutions industry through the combination of their technologies. However, the combination of such technologies might not meet the demands of the marketplace. If our technologies fail to meet such demand, customer acceptance of our biometric products could decline, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, we expect that the additions to our product portfolio will extend our reach into our current markets and provide a critical component to our comprehensive offering for new markets in need of identity solutions. However, there can be no assurance that our current customers or customers in new markets will be receptive to these additional offerings. Further, we might not be able to market successfully our products and services to the customers of the companies we acquired. If our product offerings and services fail to meet the demands of this marketplace, their results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. There is also a risk that we will not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions as rapidly as, or to the extent, anticipated by financial or industry analysts, or that such analysts will not perceive the same benefits to the acquisitions as they do. If these risks materialize, our stock price could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments In connection with the pending merger with Identix, we filed a registration statement on Form S-4 on February 14, 2006. On March 14, 2006, we received comments from the Staff on that registration statement. We expect to respond to those comments and file an amendment to the registration statement as soon as practicable. To the extent that any of the comments relate to matters that also impact information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we would file an amendment to the Form 10-K once all of the comments on the registration statement have been cleared by the SEC staff. 