Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains or incorporates a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industry and markets in which we operate and management’s beliefs and assumptions. Any statements contained herein (including without limitation statements to the effect that we or our management “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “plan” and similar expressions) that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in this report. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, those set forth below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses. We have a history of operating losses. Our business operations began in 1993 and, except for 1996 and 2000, have resulted in pre-tax operating losses in each year, which in 2006, 2007 and 2008, include significant asset impairments and merger related expenses, amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation expense. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $618.5 million. We derive over 90% of our revenue from government contracts, which are often non-standard, involve competitive bidding, may be subject to cancellation with or without penalty and may produce volatility in earnings and revenue. More than 90% of our business involves providing solutions and services under contracts with U.S. Federal, state, local and foreign government agencies. Obtaining contracts from government agencies is challenging and government contracts often include provisions that are not standard in commercial transactions. For example, government contracts may: • include provisions that allow the government agency to unilaterally terminate the contract without penalty under some circumstances; • be subject to purchasing decisions of agencies that are subject to political considerations; • include bonding requirements; • be subject to onerous procurement procedures; and • be subject to cancellation or reduction if government funding becomes unavailable or is cut back. Securing government contracts can be a protracted process involving competitive bidding. In many cases, unsuccessful bidders may challenge contract awards, which can lead to increased costs, delays and possible loss of the contract for the winning bidder. Protests, and similar delays, regarding any future government contracts of a material nature that may be awarded to us could result in materially adverse revenue volatility, 21 Table of Contents making management of inventory levels, cash flows and profitability inherently difficult. Outright loss of any material government contract through the protest process or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and stock price. In addition, government contracts may specify performance criteria that must be satisfied before the customer accepts the products and services. Collection of accounts receivable may be dependent on meeting customer requirements, which may be unpredictable, subject to change by the customer, and not fully understood by us at the time of acceptance of the order, and may require the incurrence of unexpected costs that may be uncompensated and could negatively affect profit margins and our liquidity. Our government contracts are subject to continued appropriations by Congress and availability of funding for state and local programs. Reduced funding could result in terminated or delayed contracts and adversely affect our ability to meet our sales and earnings goals. For the year ended December 31, 2008, U.S. Federal Government agencies, directly or indirectly, accounted for 64% of our consolidated revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2007, U.S. Federal Government agencies, directly or indirectly accounted for 69% of our consolidated revenues. Future sales under existing and future awards of U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations, which could be affected by current or future economic conditions. Similar to federal government contracts, state and local government agency contracts may be contingent upon availability of funds provided by federal, state or local entities. In the current economic environment, many states may reduce expenditures which may result in cancellation or deferral of projects. State and local law enforcement and other government agencies are subject to political, budgetary, purchasing and delivery constraints which may result in quarterly and annual revenue and operating results that may be irregular and difficult to predict. Such revenue volatility makes management of inventory levels, cash flows and profitability inherently difficult. In addition, if we are successful in winning such procurements, there may be unevenness in shipping schedules, as well as potential delays and changes in the timing of deliveries and recognition of revenue, or cancellation of such procurements. We may not realize the full amount of revenues reflected in our backlog, which could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. There can be no assurances that our backlog estimates will result in actual revenues in any particular fiscal period because our clients may modify or terminate projects and contracts and may decide not to exercise contract options or the estimate of quantities may not materialize. Our backlog represents sales value of firm orders for products and services not yet delivered and, for long term executed contractual arrangements (contracts, subcontracts, and customer’s commitments), the estimated future sales value of estimated product shipments, transactions processed and services to be provided over the term of the contractual arrangements, including renewal options expected to be exercised. For contracts with indefinite quantities backlog reflects estimated quantities based on current activity levels. Our backlog includes estimates of revenues that are dependent on future government appropriation, option exercise by our clients and/or is subject to contract modification or termination. Due to current economic environment and potential spending constraints experienced by state and local governments, in particular, realization of our backlog may be adversely impacted. At December 31, 2008, our backlog approximated $1.1 billion, of which approximately $520.0 million is expected to be realized in 2009. Revenues from backlog, together with other recurring revenues not in backlog approximate $620.0 million or 84% of 2009 revenues. These estimates are based on our experience under such contracts and similar contracts, and we believe such estimates to be reasonable in the circumstances. However, we believe that the estimate of revenues reflected in our backlog for the following twelve months will generally be more reliable than our estimate for periods thereafter. If we do not realize a substantial amount of our backlog, our operations could be harmed and our expected future revenues could be significantly reduced. 22 Table of Contents Our quarterly results are difficult to predict, and if we miss quarterly financial expectations, our stock price could decline. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our operating results in some periods may be below or above the guidance we provide and may not meet investor expectations. If this happens, the market price of our common stock could be adversely impacted. Fluctuations in our future quarterly operating results may be caused by many factors, including: • The size and timing of customer orders, which may be received unevenly throughout a fiscal year; • The mix of revenues between solutions and services; • The application of new accounting standard or interpretations; • Cancellation or modification of contracts or changes in contract revenue estimates; and • Contract performance delays. We have a long sales cycle, which can result in significant revenue fluctuations between periods. The sales cycle for our solutions and services is typically long and subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little control. As our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels, fluctuations in the revenues as a result of the timing of contract awards and the exercise of options and task orders can cause our operating results to vary significantly between periods. If revenue falls significantly below anticipated levels, our business and the market price of our stock would be negatively impacted. Purchasing decisions for our solutions and services may be subject to delay due to many factors that are outside of our control, such as: • Appropriation of funds by governments; • Political and economic uncertainties; • Time required for a prospective customer to recognize the need for our solutions; • Customers requirements for customized features and functionalities; • Turnover of key personnel at existing and prospective customers; • Customer internal budgeting process; and • Customer internal procedures for the approval of large contracts. We may be unable to obtain additional capital required to finance our growth and our acquisition strategy may be adversely affected by the current volatile market conditions. Our strategy includes growth of our business through strategic acquisitions. In addition, the installation of our secure credentialing systems requires significant capital expenditures. Our need to fund such expenditures has increased following our acquisition of Old Digimarc. During 2008, our expenditures increased to $22.5 million and are expected to increase in 2009. At December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of $20.4 million and availability under our line of credit of $120.5 million, subject to continuing compliance with covenants contained in the agreement. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet current working capital and capital expenditure requirements and have been successful in the past in obtaining financing for capital expenditures, and acquisitions, we expect to have increased capital needs as we continue to expand our business. In addition, our ability to execute on our acquisition strategy may be adversely affected by the current volatile market conditions, which may continue over a prolonged period. We may be unsuccessful in raising additional financing to fund growth or we may have difficulty in obtaining financing at attractive rates or on terms that are not excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure additional financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our 23 Table of Contents growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon our expansion plans. We are subject to government regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. We are affected by and must comply with various government regulations that impact our operating costs, profit margins and the internal organization and operation of our business. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations, rules and approvals could result in the imposition of penalties, the loss of our government contracts or our disqualification as a U.S. Government contractor, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Among the most significant regulations affecting our business are: • export control regulations; • Federal Acquisition Regulation, or the FAR, and agency regulations supplementing the FAR, which comprehensively regulate the formation and administration of, and performance under government contracts; • Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and • laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. These regulations affect how we and our customers do business and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. Any changes in applicable laws and regulations could restrict our ability to conduct our business. Any failure by us to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions or suspension, debarment or disqualification from contracting with the federal, state and local governments. Biometric technologies have not yet achieved widespread commercial acceptance and our strategy of expanding our biometric business could adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. Part of our strategy is to enhance our leadership in biometric technologies. Pursuing this strategy involves risks. For instance, to date, biometric technologies have not yet gained widespread commercial acceptance. Although there has been more commercial activity recently, there is no assurance that this activity will continue or expand. Some of the obstacles to the use of biometric technologies include a perceived loss of privacy and public perceptions as to the usefulness of biometric solutions. Whether the market for biometric technologies and solutions will expand will be dependent upon factors such as: • national or international events which may affect the need for or interest in biometric solutions or services; • the cost, performance and reliability of the solutions and services and those of our competitors; • customers’ perception of the perceived benefit of biometric solutions and services and their satisfaction with the solutions and services; • public perceptions regarding the confidentiality of private information; • proposed or enacted legislation related to privacy of information; • marketing efforts and publicity regarding these solutions and services; • competition from non-biometric technologies that provide more affordable, but less robust, authentication (such as tokens and smart cards); 24 Table of Contents • privacy and legal challenges relating to biometric identifiers driven by private citizens and advocacy groups; and • the potential for changes in government policy regarding privacy issues with a new executive branch administration. We do not know when, if ever, biometric solutions and services will gain widespread commercial acceptance. Certain groups have publicly objected to the use of biometric solutions and services for some applications on civil liberties grounds and legislation has been proposed to regulate the use of biometric security solutions. From time to time, biometric technologies have been the focus of organizations and individuals seeking to curtail or eliminate such technologies on the grounds that they may be used to diminish personal privacy rights. If such initiatives result in restrictive legislation, the market for biometric solutions may be adversely affected. Even if biometric technologies gain wide market acceptance, our biometric solutions and services may not adequately address the requirements of the market and may not gain widespread commercial acceptance. We face intense competition, which could result in lower revenues and higher research and development expenditures and could adversely affect our results of operations. The events of September 11, 2001 and subsequent regulatory and policy changes in the U.S. and abroad have heightened interest in the use of biometric security solutions, and we expect competition in this field, which is already substantial, to intensify. Competitors are developing and marketing semiconductor ultrasonic and optically based direct contact fingerprint image capture devices, or retinal blood vessel, iris pattern, hand geometry, voice or various types of facial structure solutions. Among these companies are Cognitec Systems Corporation, CrossMatch Technologies, Imageware Systems, Inc., SAGEM Morpho Inc., NEC Corporation, Cogent, Inc. and Ultra-Scan Corporation. Our solutions also compete with non-biometric technologies which may be less costly, such as certificate authorities and traditional keys, cards, surveillance systems and passwords. Widespread adoption of one or more of these technologies or approaches in the markets we target could significantly reduce the potential market for our systems and solutions. Some of our competitors have significantly more resources than we have. Our competitors may introduce products that are more price competitive, have increased performance or functionality or incorporate technological advances that we have not yet developed or implemented. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop, market and sell new and enhanced solutions at competitive prices, which will require significant research and development expenditures. If we do not develop new and enhanced solutions or if we are not able to invest adequately in their research and development activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be severely and negatively impacted. Unless we keep pace with changing technologies, we could lose existing customers and fail to win new customers. In order to compete effectively in the biometrics market, we must continually design, develop and market new and enhanced products. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the changing and sophisticated needs of the marketplace. Frequently, technical development programs in the biometric industry require assessments to be made of the future directions of technology and technology markets generally, which are inherently risky and difficult to predict. We may not be able to accurately predict which technologies our customers will support. If we fail to choose correctly among technical directions, or we fail to offer innovative solutions at competitive prices in a timely manner, customers may forego purchases of our solutions and purchase those of our competitors. Security breaches in systems that we sell or maintain could result in the disclosure of sensitive government information or private personal information that could result in the loss of customers and negative publicity. Many of the systems included in the solutions we sell manage private personal information and protect information involved in sensitive government functions. The protective security measures that we use in these 25 Table of Contents systems may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt our business, damage our reputation, and expose us to litigation and liability. A party who is able to circumvent protective security measures used in these systems could misappropriate sensitive or proprietary information or cause interruptions or otherwise damage our products, services and reputation, and the property and privacy of our customers. If unintended parties obtain sensitive data and information, or create bugs or viruses or otherwise sabotage the functionality of our systems, we may receive negative publicity, incur liability to our customers or lose the confidence of our customers, any of which may cause the termination or modification of our contracts. Further, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses and liabilities that may result from such events. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect ourselves against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by the occurrence of any such breaches. In addition, protective or remedial measures may not be available at a reasonable price or at all, or may not be entirely effective. Our reliance on external suppliers and contract manufacturers may result in delays and loss of sales or customers. The lead-time for ordering certain of products and materials and for building many of our products included in our solutions can be many months. As a result, we must order such products and materials based on forecasted demand. If demand for our solutions lags significantly behind our forecasts, we may purchase more products than we can sell, which can result in increased cash needs and write-downs of obsolete or excess inventory. In addition, if the delivered product purchases are delayed, we may lose customers and sales. We rely on contract manufacturers to produce our hardware products under short term manufacturing arrangements. Although we believe we can find alternative sources of manufacturing our hardware, any disruption of contractual arrangements could result in delaying deliveries or in the loss our sales. We obtain certain hardware and services, as well as software applications, from a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves risks, including reduced control over quality and delivery schedules. Any financial instability of our suppliers could result in our having to find new suppliers. We may experience delays in manufacturing and deliveries of our products and services to customers if we lose our sources or if supplies and services delivered from these sources are delayed, which could result in the loss of sales or customers. The market for our solutions is still developing and if the biometrics industry adopts standards or a platform different from our platform, then our competitive position would be negatively affected. The market for identity solutions is still developing. The evolution of this market may result in the development of different technologies and industry standards that are not compatible with our current solutions, products or technologies. Several organizations, such as the International Civil Aviation Organization, sets standards for travel documents that its member states then put into effect, and the National Institute for Standards and Testing, which is part of the U.S. Department of Commerce, set standards for biometrics to be used in identification and documentation. Although we believe that our biometric technologies comply with existing standards for finger, face and iris recognition, these standards may change and any standards adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with our business model and current or future solutions, products and services. Our plan to pursue sales in international markets may be limited by risks related to conditions in such markets. In the year ended December 31, 2008, we derived approximately 8% of our total revenues from international sales and our strategy is to expand our international operations. However, there is a risk that we may not be able to successfully market, sell and deliver our products in foreign countries. 26 Table of Contents Risks inherent in marketing, selling and delivering products in foreign and international markets could have a severe negative impact on our financial results and stock price, include those associated with: • regional economic or political conditions; • delays in or absolute prohibitions on exporting products resulting from export restrictions for certain products and technologies; • loss of, or delays in importing products, services and intellectual property developed abroad, resulting from unstable or fluctuating social, political or governmental conditions; • fluctuations in foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar; • loss of revenue, property (including intellectual property) and equipment from expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, terrorism, criminal acts and other political and social risks; • liabilities resulting from any unauthorized actions of our local partners, resellers or agents under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or local anti-corruption statutes; • risks of increases in taxes and other government fees; and • involuntary renegotiations of contracts with foreign governments. We expect that we will have increased exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. For example during the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded foreign currency translation losses of $6.6 million, primarily related to goodwill and long-lived assets related to foreign acquisitions, in accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, we have significant Japanese Yen denominated transactions with Japanese suppliers of hardware and consumables for the delivery to customers under certain contracts. In addition, we have exposure to fluctuations to the Euro, Canadian dollar and the Mexican Peso as a result of operations conducted in such countries, which could result in unexpected fluctuations to our results of operations, which could be material and adverse. If we do not successfully expand our direct sales and services organizations and partnering arrangements, we may not be able to increase our sales or support our customers. We sell substantially all of our services and license substantially all of our products through our direct business development and sales organization. Our future success depends on substantially increasing the size and scope of our direct business development and sales force and partnering arrangements, both domestically and internationally. We will face intense competition for personnel, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain additional qualified business development and sales personnel on a timely basis. Moreover, given the large-scale deployment required by some of our customers, we will need to hire and retain a number of highly trained customer service and support personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase the size of our customer service and support organization on a timely basis to provide the high quality of support required by our customers. The ability to add additional business development and sales and customer service personnel could result in customer dissatisfaction and loss of customers. We rely in part upon system integrators original equipment manufacturers, or OEM, and distribution partners to sell some of our solutions, technologies and services, and we may be adversely affected if those parties do not actively promote their products or pursue installations that do not use our solutions, technologies and services. A portion of our revenue comes from sales to partners including OEMs, systems integrators, distributors and resellers. Some of these relationships have not been formalized in a detailed contract, and may be subject to termination at any time. Even where these relationships are formalized in a detailed contract, the agreements can often be terminated with little or no notice and subject to periodic amendment. We intend to continue to seek strategic relationships to distribute, license and sell certain of our products. We, however, may not be able to negotiate acceptable relationships in the future and cannot predict whether current or future relationships will be successful. 27 Table of Contents If our solutions systems and products are not timely delivered or do not perform as promised, we could experience increased costs, lower margins, liquidated damage payment obligations and reputational harm. We often provide complex systems that are required to operate in difficult or sensitive circumstances. The development of such complex systems may be subject to delays or failure to meet performance requirements to customer specifications. The negative effects of any delay or failure to deliver to meet performance requirements could be exacerbated if the delay or failure occurs in systems that provide personal security, secure sensitive computer data, authorize significant financial transactions or perform other functions where a security breach could have significant consequences. If a product launch is delayed or is the subject of an availability shortage because of problems with our ability to manufacture or assemble the product successfully on a timely basis, or if a product or service otherwise fails to meet performance criteria, we may lose revenue opportunities entirely and/or experience delays in revenue recognition associated with a product or service in addition to incurring higher operating expenses during the period required to correct the defects. There is a risk that for unforeseen reasons we may be required to repair or replace a substantial number of systems in use or to reimburse customers for systems that fail to work or meet strict performance criteria. From time to time, in certain critical or complex sale or licensing transactions, we may be compelled to accept liability provisions that vary from our preferred contracting model. There is a risk that in certain contracts and circumstances we may not be successful in adequately minimizing our product and related liabilities or that the protections we negotiate will not ultimately be deemed enforceable. We carry product liability insurance, but existing coverage may not be adequate to cover potential claims. Although we will deploy back-up systems, the failure of our products to perform as promised could result in increased costs, lower margins, liquidated damage payment obligations and harm to our reputation. This could result in contract terminations and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Failure to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology, intellectual property and manufacturing processes could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete effectively. We principally rely upon patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and contract law to establish and protect our proprietary rights. There is a risk that claims allowed on any patents or trademarks we hold may not be broad enough to protect our technology. In addition, our patents or trademarks may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and we cannot be certain that the rights granted there under will provide competitive advantages to us. Moreover, any current or future issued or licensed patents, or trademarks, or currently existing or future developed trade secrets or know-how may not afford sufficient protection against competitors with similar technologies or processes, and the possibility exists that certain of our already issued patents or trademarks may infringe upon third party patents or trademarks or be designed around by others. In addition, there is a risk that others may independently develop proprietary technologies and processes, which are the same as, substantially equivalent or superior to ours, or become available in the market at a lower price. We may be required to expend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may have to litigate to enforce our patents or trademarks or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights. Litigation could be very costly and divert management’s attention. An adverse outcome in any litigation may have a severe negative effect on our financial results and stock price. To determine the priority of inventions, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or oppositions in foreign patent and trademark offices, which could result in substantial cost and limitations on the scope or validity of our patents or trademarks. In addition, foreign laws treat the protection of proprietary rights differently from laws in the United States and may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. The failure of foreign laws or judicial systems to adequately protect our proprietary rights or intellectual property, including intellectual property developed on our behalf by foreign contractors or subcontractors may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial results and stock price. 28 Table of Contents Legal claims regarding infringement by us or our suppliers of third party intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs, diversion of managerial resources and harm to our reputation. Although we believe that our solutions, products and services do not infringe currently existing and validly issued intellectual property rights of others, we might not be able to defend successfully against a third-party infringement claim. A successful infringement claim against us, our customers or our suppliers could subject us to: • liability for damages and litigation costs, including attorneys’ fees; • lawsuits that prevent us from further use of the intellectual property; • having to license the intellectual property from a third party, which could include significant licensing fees; • having to develop a non-infringing alternative, which could be costly and delay projects; • having to indemnify clients with respect to losses they incurred as a result of the alleged infringement; and • having to establish alternative sources for products supplied to us by third parties. Our failure to prevail against any third party infringement claim could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Even if we are not found liable in a claim for intellectual property infringement, such a claim could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources and management attention, termination of customer contracts and harm to our reputation. We are dependent on a small number of individuals, and if we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, our business will be adversely affected. Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of our senior management, including our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert V. LaPenta, and other members of our executive team. These individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with regards to advanced technology identity solutions. The loss of any of these individuals could severely harm our business. Our business is also highly dependent on our ability to retain, hire and motivate talented highly skilled personnel. Experienced personnel in the advanced technology identity solutions industry are in high demand and competition for their talents are intense. If we are unable to successfully attract, retain and motivate key personnel, our business may be severely harmed. If we fail to recruit and retain skilled employees or employees with the necessary security clearances, we might not be able to perform under our government services contracts or win new business. To be competitive, we must have employees who have advanced information technology and technical services skills and who work well with our customers in a government or defense-related environment. Often, these employees must have some of the highest security clearances in the United States. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be negatively impacted. In addition, some our government services contracts contain provisions requiring us to commit to staff a program with certain personnel the customer considers key to our successful performance under the contract. In the event we are unable to provide these key personnel or acceptable substitutions, the customer may terminate the contract, and we may not be able to recover certain incurred costs. Certain of our shareholders have significant relationships with us, which could result in it taking actions that are not supported by unaffiliated shareholders. In connection with the Aston investment in our Company, Aston became the largest shareholder of L-1, currently owning approximately 8.8% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Aston (together with its affiliate, L-1 Investment Partners LLC) have an influence on matters requiring approval by our shareholders, 29 Table of Contents including the election of directors and most corporate actions, such as mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we have significant relationships with each of L-1 Investment Partners LLC and Aston including: • Mr. Robert V. LaPenta, the founder and Chief Executive Officer of L-1 Investments Partners LLC, is Chairman of our board of directors and Chief Executive Officer and President; • Mr. James DePalma, Mr. Joseph Paresi and Ms. Doni Fordyce who are affiliates of L-1 Investment Partners LLC and Aston, serve as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing and Sales Officer, and Executive Vice President and of Corporate Communications, respectively; • We have entered into certain transactions with Aston, L-1 Investment Partners and Mr. LaPenta, including a sublease of office space from L-1 Investment Partners, an agreement in principle to purchase a portfolio company of Aston at fair market value, and a private placement issuance of securities to Mr. LaPenta in connection with his participation in our $120 million private placement to fund in part our acquisition of ID Systems business of Digimarc. See Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, “Related Party Transactions” for a more detailed description of these transactions. The concentration of large percentages of ownership in any single shareholder, or in any series of single shareholders, may delay or prevent change in control of the Company. Additionally, the sale of a significant number of our shares in the open market by single shareholders or otherwise could adversely affect our stock price. Risks Related to Our Acquisition Strategy Integration of recently acquired businesses may be difficult to achieve and will consume significant financial and managerial resources, which may adversely affect operations. Our operating philosophy is to let acquired businesses operate in autonomous manner subject to corporate oversight but integrating and rationalizing duplicative functions to achieve revenue and cost synergies. We may encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays in integrating the operations recently acquired and future acquisitions such as: • exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies or assets; • higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses; • assumption of ongoing litigation matters that may be highly complex and involve significant time, cost and expense ; • potential conflicts between business cultures; • adverse changes in business focus perceived by third-party constituencies; • disruption of our ongoing business; • potential conflicts in distribution, marketing or other important relationships; • potential constraints of management resources; • failure to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful incorporation of acquired technology; • failure to realize the potential of acquired technologies, complete product development, or properly obtain or secure appropriate protection of intellectual property rights; and • loss of key employees and/or the diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns. The geographic distance between acquired businesses and their respective offices and operations increases the risk that the integration will not be completed successfully or in a timely and cost-effective manner. We 30 Table of Contents may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the integration of the companies. The simultaneous integration of these acquisitions may place additional strain on our resources and increase the risk that our business may be adversely affected by the disruption caused by the acquisitions. Our strategy contemplates acquiring additional businesses, the integration of which may consume significant financial and managerial resources, and could have a severe negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions could result in future impairment and other charges which could adversely affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2008, goodwill, intangible assets and property and equipment of $891.0 million, $108.3 million and $81.3 million, respectively and in 2008, we recorded impairment charges aggregating $528.6 million for impairments of goodwill and long-lived assets, primarily related to our biometric businesses. Because goodwill represents a residual after the purchase price is allocated to the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, it is difficult to quantify the factors that contribute to the recorded amounts and subsequent impairments, if any. Nevertheless, management believes that the following factors have contributed to the amount recorded: • technological development capabilities and intellectual capital; • expected significant growth in revenues and profits from the expanding market in identity solutions; and • expected synergies resulting from providing multi modal product offerings to existing customer base and to new customers of the combined company. The recorded amounts at the purchase date for goodwill and other intangible assets are estimates at a point in time and are based on valuations and other analyses of fair value that require significant estimates and assumptions about future events, including but not limited to projections of revenues, market growth, demand, technological developments, political developments, government policies, among other factors, which are derived from information obtained from independent sources, as well as the management of the acquired businesses and our business plans for the acquired businesses or intellectual property. If estimates and assumptions used to initially record goodwill and intangible assets do not materialize, or unanticipated adverse developments or events occur, ongoing reviews of the carrying amounts of such goodwill and intangible assets may result in impairments which will require us to record a charge in the period in which such an impairment is identified, and could have a severe negative impact on its business and financial statements. Subsequent to December 31, 2008 through February 25, 2009 our stock price has averaged $6.67 per share compared $6.24 per share for the 60 days prior to December 31, 2008. However during both periods the price has fluctuated significantly. If our stock price were to decrease and remain and that level for a sustained period of time we may be required to assess the carrying amount of goodwill and long-lived assets of our reporting units before our scheduled annual impairment test. If at that time the estimated fair values of our reporting units are less than their respective carrying amounts, we would need to determine whether our goodwill and long-lived assets would be impaired. Moreover, if economic conditions continue to deteriorate and capital markets conditions continue to adversely impact the valuation of enterprises, the estimated fair values of our reporting units could be adversely impacted, which could result in future impairments. If we do not achieve the expected benefits of the acquisitions we have made, the price of our common stock could decline. We expect that the acquisitions that we consummated in 2006, 2007 and 2008 as well as the acquisitions that we have made previously will enhance our leadership in the identity solutions industry through the combination of their respective technologies. However, the combination of such technologies might not meet the demands of the marketplace. If our technologies fail to meet such demand, customer acceptance of our biometric products could decline, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, we expect that the additions to our solutions offerings will extend our reach into 31 Table of Contents our current markets and provide a critical component to our comprehensive offering for new markets in need of identity solutions. However, there can be no assurance that our current customers or customers in new markets will be receptive to these additional offerings. Further, we might not be able to market successfully our products and services to the customers of the companies we acquired. If our solutions offerings and services fail to meet the demands of this marketplace, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. There is also a risk that we will not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions as rapidly as, or to the extent, anticipated by financial or industry analysts, or that such analysts will not perceive the same benefits to the acquisitions as we do. If these risks materialize, our stock price could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 