Item 1A. Risk Factors Demand for our merchandise is difficult to gauge and our inability to predict consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences may reduce our revenues, gross margins and earnings. Consumer spending patterns are difficult to predict and are sensitive to the general economic climate, the consumer's level of disposable income, consumer debt, and overall consumer confidence. Declines in consumer spending on apparel and accessories could reduce our revenues, gross margins and earnings. During fiscal 2007 we operated in a highly promotional retail selling environment accompanied by lower customer traffic and challenging macroeconomic conditions. These conditions, which have continued into the first quarter of fiscal 2008, have had a negative impact on our revenues, gross margins and earnings. We believe these conditions will continue during the remainder of fiscal 2008. Additionally, what we believe was an over-assortment of merchandise that did not differentiate us from our competitors, had a negative impact on our revenues, gross margins and earnings in 2007. We have recently announced changes in our business strategy that we hope over time will both increase the appeal of our merchandise to customers and reduce the impact of discounting and promotions. These initiatives will take time to implement and there is no assurance that these initiatives will be successful or that they will have any positive effect on our operating results. Forecasting consumer demand for our merchandise is difficult given the nature of changing fashion trends and consumer preferences, which can vary by season and from one geographic region to another. On average, we begin the design process for apparel nine to ten months before merchandise is available to consumers, and we typically begin to make purchase commitments four to eight months in advance. These lead times make it difficult for us to respond quickly to changes in demand for our products and amplify the consequences of any misjudgments we might make. If the demand for our merchandise is lower than expected we will be forced to discount more merchandise, which reduces our gross margins and earnings. Our inventory levels fluctuate seasonally, and at certain times of the year, such as during the holiday season, we maintain higher inventory levels and are particularly susceptible to risks related to demand for our merchandise. If we elect to carry relatively low levels of inventory and demand is stronger than we anticipated, we may be forced to backorder merchandise in our direct channels or not have merchandise available for sale in our retail stores, which may result in lost sales and lower customer satisfaction. Quarterly results of operations fluctuate and may be negatively impacted by a failure to predict sales trends and by seasonal influences. Net sales, operating results, liquidity and cash flows have fluctuated, and will continue to fluctuate, on a quarterly basis, as well as on an annual basis, as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: •the number and timing of premium retail store openings; •the timing and number of e-mails delivered; •the timing of catalog mailings and the number of catalogs we mail; •the ability to accurately estimate and accrue for merchandise returns and the costs of obsolete inventory disposition; 11 •the timing of merchandise receiving and shipping, including any delays resulting from labor strikes or slowdowns, adverse weather conditions, health epidemics or national security measures; and •shifts in the timing of important holiday selling seasons relative to our fiscal quarters, including Valentine's Day, Easter, Mother's Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas, and the day of the week on which certain important holidays fall. Our results continue to depend materially on sales and profits from the November and December holiday shopping season. In anticipation of traditionally increased holiday sales activity, we incur certain significant incremental expenses, including the hiring of a substantial number of temporary employees to supplement the existing workforce. If, for any reason, we were to realize lower-than-expected sales or profits during the November and December holiday selling season, our financial condition, results of operations, including related gross margins, and cash flows for the entire fiscal year would be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully implement our retail store rollout strategy, which could result in significantly lower revenue growth. The key driver of our growth strategy continues to be the retail store expansion. As of February 2, 2008, we operated 306 premium retail stores. We have since opened an additional four stores in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 for a total of 310 premium retail stores currently in operation. We plan to open approximately 50 premium retail stores in fiscal 2008. We believe we have the potential to grow our retail business to a total of 500 to 550 premium retail stores over the next three to five years. However, there can be no assurance that these stores will be opened, will be opened in a timely manner, or, if opened, that these stores will be profitable. The ability to open our planned retail stores depends on our ability to successfully: •identify or secure premium retail space; •negotiate site leases or obtain favorable lease terms for the retail store locations we identify; and •prevent construction delays and cost overruns in connection with the build-out of new stores. Any miscalculations or shortcomings in the planning and control of the retail growth strategy could materially impact results of operations and financial condition. Though it is our present intention to open approximately 50 new stores in fiscal 2008, we do not maintain a specific rollout plan beyond a one-year horizon. We continually reassess store rollout plans based on the overall retail environment, the performance of the retail business, our access to working capital and external financing and the availability of suitable store locations. For example, it is possible that in any year we will increase planned store openings, particularly if we experience strong retail sales and have access to the necessary working capital or external financing. Likewise, we would be inclined to curtail store rollout if we were to experience weaker retail sales or if we did not have adequate working capital or access to financing, or as a part of a cost containment initiative. The retail store model requires us to incur substantial financial commitments and fixed costs that we will not be able to recover if a store is not successful. The success of an individual store location depends largely on the success of the lifestyle center or shopping mall where the store is located, and may be influenced by changing customer demographic and consumer spending patterns. These factors cannot be predicted with complete accuracy. Because we are required to make long-term financial commitments when leasing retail store locations, and to incur substantial fixed costs for each store's design, leasehold improvements, fixtures, and information and management systems, it would be costly for us to close a store that does not prove successful. 12 The day spa test concept may be abandoned at any time. We are currently operating the Coldwater Creek ~ The Spa test concept in nine locations. We opened three of these locations during the second half fiscal 2007. The other six locations have been open approximately two years. We have not formed a conclusion as to the long-term prospects of this concept, although we have no current plan to build additional spas. To date, however, our day spa test has had a negative impact on our earnings, as we experiment with marketing approaches and gather data regarding the spa business and, in particular, our spa customer. There is no assurance that the test of this concept will be successful or that we will continue to develop day spas. Factors that could cause us to curtail or abandon the day spa concept include: •unexpected or increased costs or delays in the concept's development; •the potential demands on management resources in developing and testing this new concept; •legal and regulatory constraints; •the inherent difficulty in forecasting consumer tastes and trends through market research, concept testing or otherwise, and the possibility that we will determine through the performance of our test sites that demand does not meet our expectations; and •our inability to fund our day spa concept or its expansion with operating cash as a result of either lower sales from our retail and direct businesses or higher than anticipated costs, or both. If we were to abandon the day spa concept, we would be required to write off any costs we have capitalized and may incur lease termination costs, which would have a material and adverse effect on results of operations, particularly for the quarter in which a write off is recognized. We may be unable to manage expanding operations and the complexities of our multi-channel strategy, which could harm results of operations. During the past few years, with the implementation of a multi-channel business model, our overall business has become substantially more complex. This increasing complexity has resulted and is expected to continue to result in increased demands on our managerial, operational and administrative resources and has forced us to develop new expertise. In order to manage our complex multi-channel strategy, we will be required to, among other things: •improve and integrate our management information systems and controls; •efficiently manage the upgrade of certain equipment at our distribution center; and •attract, train and retain qualified personnel, including middle and senior management, and manage an increasing number of employees. We are subject to significant risks associated with our ongoing implementation of major changes to our management information systems. To support our increasingly complex business processes, we are replacing a number of our management information systems that are critical to our operations, including systems such as accounting, human resources, inventory purchasing and management, financial planning, direct segment order processing, and retail segment point-of-sale systems. While integration efforts are ongoing, we completed the initial implementation of our financial and human resource systems of an enterprise resource planning system during the second half of fiscal 2007, and continue the implementation of our core merchandising system. Installing and integrating the various components of our management information systems carries substantial risk, including potential loss of data or information, cost overruns, implementation delays, disruption of operations, and our potential inability to meet reporting requirements. 13 We depend on key vendors for timely and effective sourcing and delivery of our merchandise. If these vendors are unable to timely fill orders or meet quality standards, we may lose customer sales and our reputation may suffer. The direct business depends largely on our ability to fulfill orders on a timely basis, and the direct and retail businesses depend largely on our ability to keep appropriate levels of inventory in the distribution center and stores. As we grow the retail business, we may experience difficulties in obtaining sufficient manufacturing capacity from vendors to produce merchandise. We generally maintain non-exclusive relationships with multiple vendors that manufacture our merchandise. However, we have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could discontinue selling to us at any time. Moreover, a key vendor may become unable to supply our inventory needs due to capacity constraints, financial instability, or other factors beyond our control. If we were required to change vendors or if a key vendor was unable to supply desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, particularly in light of our recent initiative to consolidate more merchandise purchases with fewer vendors, we could experience delays in filling customer orders or delivering inventory to stores until alternative supply arrangements were secured, which could result in lost sales and a decline in customer satisfaction. Additionally, delays by our vendors in supplying our inventory needs could cause us to incur expensive air freight charges, which would negatively impact our margins. Increasing reliance on foreign vendors will subject us to uncertainties that could impact our cost to source merchandise and delay or prevent merchandise shipments. We expect to continue to expand our direct sourcing program and to source more apparel directly from foreign vendors, particularly those located in Asia as well as those located in India and Central America. During fiscal 2007 we were the importer of record for approximately 50 percent of total apparel purchases and we anticipate that we will be the importer of record on approximately 60 percent of total apparel purchases for fiscal 2008, with the ultimate target being 70 percent. This will expose us to new and greater risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could substantially impact our ability to source apparel through foreign vendors and to realize any perceived cost savings. We will be subject to, among other things: •burdens associated with doing business overseas, including the imposition of, or increases in, tariffs or import duties, or import/export controls or regulation, as well as credit assurances we are required to provide to foreign vendors; •declines in the relative value of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies; •failure of foreign vendors to adhere to our quality assurance standards or our standards for conducting business; •financial instability of a vendor or vendors; •changing or uncertain economic conditions, political uncertainties or unrest, or epidemics or other health or weather-related events in foreign countries resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries; and •restrictions on the transfer of funds or transportation delays or interruptions. Irrespective of our direct sourcing initiative, substantially all of our merchandise, including that which we buy from domestic vendors, is manufactured overseas. Consequently, regardless of how we source our merchandise, we are exposed to the uncertainties of relying on foreign vendors for our merchandise. The United States and the European Union have imposed trade quotas on certain apparel and textile categories from the Peoples Republic of China. The memorandum of understanding between the 14 United States and The Peoples Republic of China, which outlines the new quotas, will be in effect through December 2008. Our sourcing strategy is designed to allow us to adjust to potential shifts in availability of apparel following the expiration of quotas for World Trade Organization member countries, and the re-imposition of quotas for apparel and textiles exported from the Peoples Republic of China. However, sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits, political and/or financial instability resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, and/or other trade disruptions. We face substantial competition from discount retailers in the women's apparel industry. We face substantial competition from discount retailers, such as Kohl's and Target, for basic elements in our merchandise lines, and net sales may decline or grow more slowly if we are unable to differentiate our merchandise and shopping experience from these discount retailers. In addition, the retail apparel industry has experienced significant price deflation over the past several years largely due to the downward pressure on retail prices caused by discount retailers. We expect this price deflation to continue as a result of the expiration of quota restrictions on the importing of apparel into the United States from foreign countries that are members of the World Trade Organization. This price deflation may make it more difficult for us to maintain gross margins and to compete with retailers that have greater purchasing power than we have. Furthermore, because we continue to source a significant percentage of our merchandise through intermediaries and from suppliers and manufacturers located in the United States and Canada, where labor and production costs, on average, tend to be higher, our gross margins may be lower than those of competing retailers. Consumer concerns about purchasing items via the Internet as well as external or internal infrastructure system failures could negatively impact our e-commerce sales or cause us to incur additional costs. The e-commerce business is vulnerable to consumer privacy concerns relating to purchasing items over the Internet, security breaches, and failures of Internet infrastructure and communications systems. If consumer confidence in making purchases over the Internet declines as a result of privacy or other concerns, e-commerce net sales could decline. We may be required to incur increased costs to address or remedy any system failures or security breaches. We may be unable to fill customer orders efficiently, which could harm customer satisfaction. If we are unable to efficiently process and fill customer orders, customers may cancel or refuse to accept orders, and customer satisfaction could be harmed. We are subject to, among other things: •failures in the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our customer contact centers or our sole distribution center in Mineral Wells, West Virginia, including system failures caused by telecommunications systems providers and order volumes that exceed our present telephone or Internet system capabilities; •delays or failures in the performance of third parties, such as shipping companies and the U.S. postal and customs services, including delays associated with labor disputes, labor union activity, inclement weather, natural disasters, health epidemics and possible acts of terrorism; and •disruptions or slowdowns in our order processing or fulfillment systems resulting from increased security measures implemented by U.S. customs, or from homeland security measures, telephone or Internet down times, system failures, computer viruses, electrical outages, mechanical problems, human error or accidents, fire, natural disasters or comparable events. 15 We have a liberal merchandise return policy, and we may experience a greater number of returns than we anticipate. As part of our customer service commitment, we maintain a liberal merchandise return policy that allows customers to return any merchandise, virtually at any time and for any reason, regardless of condition. We make allowances in financial statements for anticipated merchandise returns based on historical return rates and future expectations. These allowances may be exceeded, however, by actual merchandise returns as a result of many factors, including changes in the merchandise mix, size and fit, actual or perceived quality, differences between the actual product and its presentation in catalogs or on the web site, timeliness of delivery, competitive offerings and consumer preferences or confidence. Any significant increase in merchandise returns or merchandise returns that exceed our expectations would result in adjustments to the sales return accrual and to cost of sales and could have a material and adverse affect on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unable to manage significant increases in the costs associated with the catalog business, which could affect results of operations. We incur substantial costs associated with catalog mailings, including paper, postage, merchandise acquisition and human resource costs associated with catalog layout and design, production and circulation and increased inventories. Significant increases in U.S. Postal Service rates and the cost of telecommunications services, paper and catalog production could significantly increase catalog production costs and result in lower profits for the catalog business. Most of our catalog-related costs are incurred prior to mailing, and as such we are not able to adjust the costs of a particular catalog mailing to reflect the actual subsequent performance of the catalog. Moreover, customer response rates have been unpredictable in recent years, particularly for mailings to prospective customers. Because the catalog business accounts for a significant portion of total net sales, any performance shortcomings experienced by the catalog business would likely have a material adverse effect on our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our success is dependent upon key personnel Our future success depends largely on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other employees. The loss of any of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on the business. Furthermore, the location of our corporate headquarters in Sandpoint, Idaho, may make it more difficult to replace key employees who leave us, or to add qualified employees we will need to manage our further growth. Our multi-channel model may expose us to the risk that we may be assessed for unpaid taxes. Our multi-channel business model subjects us to state and local taxes in numerous jurisdictions, including state income, franchise, and sales and use tax. We collect these taxes in any jurisdiction in which we have a physical presence. While we believe we have paid or accrued for all taxes based on our interpretation of applicable law, tax laws are complex and interpretations differ from state to state. In the past, some taxing jurisdictions have assessed additional taxes and penalties on us, asserting either an error in our calculation or an interpretation of the law that differed from our own. It is possible that taxing authorities may make additional assessments in the future. In addition to taxes, penalties and interest, these assessments could cause us to incur legal fees associated with resolving disputes with taxing authorities. Additionally, changes in state and local tax laws, such as temporary changes associated with "tax holidays" and other programs, require us to make continual changes to our collection and reporting systems that may relate to only one taxing jurisdiction. If we fail to update our collection and reporting 16 systems in response to these changes, any over collection or under collection of sales taxes could subject us to interest and penalties, as well as private lawsuits and damage to our reputation. Any determination that we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could have a negative impact on our investor perceptions. Our system of internal controls over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of an effective control system are met. However, any system of internal controls is subject to inherent limitations and the design of our controls may not provide absolute assurance that all of our objectives will be met. This includes the possibility that controls may be inappropriately circumvented or overridden, that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that misstatements due to errors or fraud may not be prevented or detected. Any failure in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting could have a material effect on financial reporting or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations, and could negatively impact investor perceptions. The stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated and has been and will continue to be significantly affected by, among other factors, quarterly operating results, changes in any earnings estimates publicly announced by us or by analysts, customer response to merchandise offerings, the size of catalog mailings, the timing of retail store openings or of important holiday seasons relative to our fiscal periods, seasonal effects on sales and various factors affecting the economy in general. The reported high and low closing sale prices of our common stock were $25.67 per share and $3.80 per share, respectively, during fiscal 2007. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to their operating performance. In October of fiscal 2007, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $75 million of its common stock over the next 12 months. There is no minimum or maximum number of shares to be repurchased under the program and the program may be discontinued at any time, without prior notice. There can be no assurance that we will continue to buy any of our common stock under our share repurchase program or that any repurchases will have a positive impact on our stock price. Important factors that could cause us to discontinue our share repurchases include, among others, unfavorable market conditions, the market price of our common stock, the nature of other investment opportunities presented to us from time to time, and the availability of funds necessary to continue purchasing common stock. The largest stockholders may exert influence over our business regardless of the opposition of other stockholders or the desire of other stockholders to pursue an alternate course of action. Dennis Pence, our Chairman of the Board of Directors may be deemed to beneficially own directly and indirectly approximately 17.2 percent of outstanding common stock as of March 28, 2008. Ann Pence, our former Vice Chairman, may be deemed to beneficially own, directly and indirectly, approximately 20.0 percent of outstanding common stock as of March 28, 2008. Either Dennis Pence or Ann Pence acting independently, could have significant influence over any matters submitted to stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of business combinations, and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control of the company, which may adversely affect the market price of common stock. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders. 17 Provisions in the charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover and discourage, delay or prevent stockholders from replacing or removing current directors or management. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger with or acquisition of us, even where the stockholders may consider it to be favorable. These provisions could also prevent or hinder an attempt by stockholders to replace current directors and include: •providing for a classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms; •prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; •authorizing the Board to designate and issue "blank check" preferred stock; •limiting persons who can call special meetings of the Board of Directors or stockholders; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at a stockholders meeting. Because the Board of Directors appoints management, any inability to effect a change in the Board of Directors may also result in the entrenchment of management. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. The preceding provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change of control and prevent changes in our management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 