Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains or incorporates a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industry and markets in which we operate and management’s beliefs and assumptions. Any statements contained herein (including without limitation statements to the effect that we or our management ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘plan’’ and similar expressions) that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in this report. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, those set forth below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses. We have a history of operating losses. Our business operations began in 1993 and, except for 1996 and 2000, have resulted in net losses in each year, including a net loss of $31.0 million in 2006. At December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $87.5 million. We will continue to invest in the development of our secure credential and biometric technologies, as well as related security consulting services. Although we were profitable in the fourth quarter of 2006, we cannot provide any assurance that we will achieve profitability on an annual basis in the future. 19 Table of Contents We derive over 90% of our revenue from government contracts, which are often non-standard, involve competitive bidding, may be subject to cancellation with or without penalty and may produce volatility in earnings and revenue. More than 90% of our business involves providing solutions, and services under contracts with U.S. federal, state, local and foreign government agencies. Obtaining contracts from government agencies is challenging and government contracts often include provisions that are not standard in private commercial transactions. For example, government contracts may: • include provisions that allow the government agency to terminate the contract without penalty under some circumstances; • be subject to purchasing decisions of agencies that are subject to political influence; • include bonding requirements; • contain onerous procurement procedures; and • be subject to cancellation or reduction if government funding becomes unavailable or is cut back. Securing government contracts can be a protracted process involving competitive bidding. In many cases, unsuccessful bidders may challenge contract awards, which can lead to increased costs, delays and possible loss of the contract for the winning bidder. Protests, and similar delays, regarding any future government contracts of a material nature that may be awarded to us could result in materially adverse revenue volatility, making management of inventory levels, cash flows and profitability inherently difficult. Outright loss of any material government contract through the protest process or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and stock price. Similar to federal government contracts, state and local government agency contracts may be contingent upon availability of matching funds from federal, state or local entities. State and local law enforcement and other government agencies are subject to political, budgetary, purchasing and delivery constraints which may result in quarterly and annual revenue and operating results that may be irregular and difficult to predict. Such revenue volatility makes management of inventory levels, cash flows and profitability inherently difficult. In addition, if we are successful in winning such procurements, there may be unevenness in shipping schedules, as well as potential delays and changes in the timing of deliveries and recognition of revenue, or cancellation of such procurements. In addition, government contracts may specify performance criteria that must be satisfied before the customer accepts the products and services. Collection of accounts receivable may be dependent on meeting customer requirements, which may be unpredictable, subject to change by the customer, and not fully understood by us at the time of acceptance of the order, and may require the incurrence of unexpected costs. These costs are accounted for as required but may be uncompensated and could negatively affect profit margins and our liquidity. We may not realize the full amount of revenues reflected in our backlog, which could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. There can be no assurances that our backlog estimates will result in actual revenues in any particular fiscal period because our clients may modify or terminate projects and contracts and may decide not to exercise contract options. Our backlog represents sales value of firm orders for products and services not yet delivered and, for long term executed contractual arrangements (contracts, subcontracts, and customers commitments), the estimated future sales value of estimated product shipments, transactions processed and services to be provided over the term of the contractual arrangements, including renewal options expected to be exercised. For contracts with indefinite quantities backlog reflects estimated quanitites based on cur rent actitity levels. Our backlog includes estimates of revenues the receipt of which require future government appropriation, option exercise by our clients and/or is subject to contract modification or termination. At December 31, 2006, our backlog approximated $523.3 million, $250.5 million of which is estimated to be realized in the following twelve months. These estimates are based on our experience under such contracts and 20 Table of Contents similar contracts, and we believe such estimates to be reasonable. However, we believe that the receipt of revenues reflected in our backlog estimate for the following twelve months will generally be more certain than our backlog estimate for periods thereafter. If we do not realize a substantial amount of our backlog, our operations could be harmed and our future revenues could be significantly reduced. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from federal government customers, the loss of which could have an adverse effect on our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2006 our three largest U.S. Government customers accounted for an aggregate of 31.0% of revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2005, one customer, the U.S. Department of State, accounted for 27.5% of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2004, two customers, Telos Corporation (U.S. Department of Defense) and U.S. Department of State accounted for an aggregate of 31.0% of our revenue. The loss of any of our significant customers would cause revenue to decline and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have been named as a defendant in a putative class action lawsuit, an adverse outcome in which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by adversely affecting our cash position. As described below in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in March and April 2005, eight putative class action lawsuits were filed against Viisage in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. These lawsuits have been consolidated into one action under one case name: In re: Viisage Technology Securities Litigation, Civil Action No. 05-10438-MLW. The amended consolidated complaint which was filed in February 2006 alleges violations of the federal securities laws by Viisage and certain of Viisage’s then officers and directors arising out of purported misstatements and omissions in Viisage’s SEC filings related to the litigation involving the Georgia drivers’ license contract and related to Viisage’s reported material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting, which allegedly artificially inflated the price of Viisage’s stock during the period May 12, 2004 through March 2, 2005. In February 2007 all claims related to the Georgia driver’s license contract were dismissed. We are not able to estimate the amount of the loss allegedly suffered by members of the putative class or the amount of legal costs and internal efforts associated with defending ourselves and our officers and directors. If we are unsuccessful in defending ourselves in this litigation, this lawsuit could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as a result of the damages that we would be required to pay. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in this litigation. Biometric technologies have not achieved widespread commercial acceptance and our strategy of expanding our biometric business could adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. Part of our strategy is to enhance our leadership in biometric technologies. Pursuing this strategy involves risks. For instance, to date, biometric technologies have not gained widespread commercial acceptance. Although there has been more recent activity, there is no assurance that this activity will continue. Some of the obstacles include a perceived loss of privacy and public perceptions as to the usefulness of biometric products. Whether the market for biometric technologies will expand will be dependent upon factors such as: • national or international events which may affect the need for or interest in biometric products or services; • the cost, performance and reliability of the products and services and those of our competitors; • customers’ perception of the perceived benefit of biometric products and services and their satisfaction with the products and services; • public perceptions of the intrusiveness of these biometric products and services and the manner in which firms are using the information collected; 21 Table of Contents • public perceptions regarding the confidentiality of private information; • proposed or enacted legislation related to privacy of information; and • marketing efforts and publicity regarding these products and services. We do not know when, if ever, biometric products and services will gain widespread commercial acceptance. Certain groups have publicly objected to the use of biometric products and services for some applications on civil liberties grounds and legislation has been proposed to regulate the use of biometric security products. From time to time, biometric technologies have been the focus of organizations and individuals seeking to curtail or eliminate such technologies on the grounds that they may be used to diminish personal privacy rights. If such initiatives result in restrictive legislation, the market for biometric solutions may be adversely affected. Even if biometric technologies gain wide market acceptance, our biometric produ cts and services may not adequately address the requirements of the market and may not gain widespread commercial acceptance. We face intense competition, which could result in lower revenues and higher research and development expenditures and could adversely affect our results of operations. The events of September 11, 2001 and subsequent regulatory and policy changes in the U.S. and abroad have heightened interest in the use of biometric security solutions, and we expect competition in this field, which is already substantial, to intensify. Competitors are developing and marketing semiconductor or optically based direct contact fingerprint image capture devices, or retinal blood vessel, iris pattern, hand geometry, voice or various types of facial structure solutions. Among these companies are Cognitec Systems Corporation, CrossMatch Technologies, Imageware Systems, Inc., SAGEM Morpho Inc., NEC Corporation and Cogent, Inc. Our products also compete with non-biometric technologies such as certificate authorities and traditional keys, cards, surveillance systems and passwords. Widespread adoption of one or more of these technologies or approaches in the markets we intend to target could significantly reduce the potential market for our systems and products. Many of our competitors have significantly more cash and resources than we have. Our competitors may introduce products that are more price competitive, have increased performance or functionality or incorporate technological advances that we have not yet developed or implemented. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop, market and sell new and enhanced systems and products at competitive prices, which will require significant research and development expenditures. If we do not develop new and enhanced products or if we are not able to invest adequately in their research and development activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be severely and negatively impacted. Unless we keep pace with changing technologies, we could lose existing customers and fail to win new customers. In order to compete effectively in the biometrics market, we must continually design, develop and market new and enhanced products. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the changing and sophisticated needs of the marketplace. Frequently, technical development programs in the biometric industry require assessments to be made of the future directions of technology and technology markets generally, which are inherently risky and difficult to predict. We may not be able to accurately predict which technologies our customers will support. If we fail to choose correctly among technical directions, or we fail to offer innovative products and services at competitive prices in a timely manner, customers may forego purchases of our products and services and purchase those of our competitors. Security breaches in systems that we sell or maintain could result in the disclosure of sensitive government information or private personal information that could result in the loss of customers and negative publicity. Many of the systems we sell manage private personal information and protect information involved in sensitive government functions. The protective security measures that we use in these systems may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt our 22 Table of Contents business, damage our reputation, and expose us to litigation and liability. A party who is able to circumvent protective security measures used in these systems could misappropriate sensitive or proprietary information or cause interruptions or otherwise damage our products, services and reputation, and the property and privacy of our customers. If unintended parties obtain sensitive data and information, or create bugs or viruses or otherwise sabotage the functionality of our systems, we may receive negative publicity, incur liability to our customers or lose the confidence of our customers, any of which may cause the termination or modification of our contracts. Further, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses and liabilities that may result from such events. In addition, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect ourselves against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by the occurrence of any such breaches. However, protective or remedial measures may not be available at a reasonable price or at all, or may not be entirely effective if commenced. Our reliance on external suppliers and contract manufacturers may result in disruption of our operations. The lead-time for ordering certain of products and materials and for building many of our products can be many months. As a result, we must order products and materials based on forecasted demand. If demand for our products lags significantly behind our forecasts, we may purchase more products than we can sell, which can result in increased cash needs and write-downs of obsolete or excess inventory. In addition, if product purchases are delayed, we may lose customers and sales. We rely on contract manufacturers to produce our hardware products under short term manufacturing arrangements. Although we believe we can find alternative sources of manufacturing our hardware, any disruption of contractual arrangements could result in delaying deliveries or in the loss our sales. Loss of limited source suppliers may result in delays or additional expenses. We obtain certain hardware and services, as well as software applications, from a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves significant risks, including reduced control over quality and delivery schedules. In particular, we are dependent on Toppan Printing Co. Ltd. for all of the printers and consumables for the U.S. Department of State passport contract and the U. S. Department of Defense common access card contract. Any financial instability of our suppliers could result in our having to find new suppliers. We may experience significant delays in manufacturing and deliveries of our products and services to customers if we lose our sources or if supplies and services delivered from these sources are del ayed. As a result, we may be required to incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply. It may take several months to locate alternative suppliers, if required, or to re-tool our products to accommodate components from different suppliers. We cannot predict if we will be able to obtain replacement components within the time frames we require at an affordable cost, or at all. Any delays resulting from suppliers failing to deliver components or obtain alternative service providers, products or services on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities and of sufficient quality or any significant increase in our costs of components from existing or alternative suppliers could have a severe negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for our solutions is still developing and if the industry adopts standards or a platform different from our platform, then our competitive position would be negatively affected. The market for identity solutions is still emerging. The evolution of this market is in a constant state of flux that may result in the development of different technologies and industry standards that are not compatible with our current products or technologies. In particular, the face recognition market lacks industry-wide standards. Several organizations, such as the International Civil Aviation Organization, which sets standards for travel documents that its member states then put into effect, and the National Institute for Standards and Testing, which is part of the U.S. Department of Commerce, have recently selected face recognition as the biometric to be used in identification 23 Table of Contents documentation. It is possible, however, that these standards may change and that any standards eventually adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with our business model and product lines. Our plan to pursue sales in international markets may be limited by risks related to conditions in such markets. In the year ended December 31, 2006, we derived approximately 9% of our total revenues from international sales. There is a risk that we may not be able to successfully market, sell and deliver our products in foreign countries. Risks inherent in marketing, selling and delivering products in foreign and international markets, each of which could have a severe negative impact on our financial results and stock price, include those associated with: • regional economic or political conditions; • delays in or absolute prohibitions on exporting products resulting from export restrictions for certain products and technologies, including ‘‘crime control’’ products and encryption technology; • loss of, or delays in importing products, services and intellectual property developed abroad, resulting from unstable or fluctuating social, political or governmental conditions; • fluctuations in foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar; • loss of revenue, property (including intellectual property) and equipment from expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, terrorism, criminal acts and other political and social risks; • the overlap of different tax structures; • seasonal reductions in business activity; • risks of increases in taxes and other government fees; and • involuntary renegotiations of contracts with foreign governments. We expect that we will have increased exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated other comprehensive income includes foreign currency translation adjustments of $0.7 million. In addition, we have significant Japanese yen-denominated transactions with Japanese vendors supplying hardware and consumables for the delivery of certain large contracts. Fluctuations in foreign currencies, including our Japanese yen-denominated transactions could result in unexpected fluctuations to our results of operations, which could be material and adverse. If we do not successfully expand our direct sales and services organizations and partnering arrangements, we may not be able to increase our sales or support our customers. We sell substantially all of our services and license substantially all of our products through our direct sales organization. Our future success depends on substantially increasing the size and scope of our direct sales force and partnering arrangements, both domestically and internationally. We will face intense competition for personnel, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain additional qualified sales personnel on a timely basis. Moreover, given the large-scale deployment required by some of our customers, we will need to hire and retain a number of highly trained customer service and support personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase the size of our customer service and support organization on a timely basis to provide the high quality of support required by our customers. Failure to add additional sales and customer service representatives could result in our inability to increase sales and support our customers. We rely in part upon original equipment manufacturers, or OEM, and distribution partners to sell our products, and we may be adversely affected if those parties do not actively promote their products or pursue installations that use their equipment. 24 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenue comes from sales to partners including OEMs, systems integrators, distributors and resellers. Some of these relationships have not been formalized in a detailed contract, and may be subject to termination at any time. Even where these relationships are formalized in a detailed contract, the agreements can often be terminated with little or no notice and subject to periodic amendment. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources that our partners devote to activities on their behalf. We intend to continue to seek strategic relationships to distribute, license and sell certain of our products. We, however, may not be able to negotiate acceptable relationships in the future and cannot predict whether current or future relationships will be successful. For example, we are currently involved in a dispute with LG Electronics, Inc. and its subsidiary relating to the termination of such a relationship. As a result of this dispute, LG has alleged the invalidity of Iridian’s patents, copyrights and trade secrets. A material adverse ruling against Iridian respecting either the underlying contract claims or enforceability of Iridian’s intellectual property rights could materially adversely impact the value of the Company’s investment in Iridian and its iris recognition technology. See Item 3. ‘‘Legal Proceedings.’’ If our systems and products are not timely delivered or do not perform as promised, we could experience increased costs, lower margins, liquidated damage payment obligations and reputational harm. We will be required to provide complex systems that will be required to operate on an ‘‘as needed’’ basis. This may in turn lead to delays or shortages in the availability of certain products, or, in some cases, the unavailability of certain products. The negative effects of any delay or failure to deliver our products could be exacerbated if the delay or failure occurs in products that provide personal security, secure sensitive computer data, authorize significant financial transactions or perform other functions where a security breach could have significant consequences. If a product launch is delayed or is the subject of an availability shortage because of problems with our ability to manufacture or as semble the product successfully on a timely basis, or if a product or service otherwise fails to meet performance criteria, we may lose revenue opportunities entirely and/or experience delays in revenue recognition associated with a product or service in addition to incurring higher operating expenses during the period required to correct the defects. There is a risk that for unforeseen reasons we may be required to repair or replace a substantial number of products in use or to reimburse customers for products that fail to work or meet strict performance criteria. From time to time, in certain critical or complex sale or licensing transactions, we may be compelled to accept liability provisions that vary from our preferred contracting model. There is a risk that in certain contracts and circumstances we may not be successful in adequately minimizing our product and related liabilities or that the protections we negotiate will not ultimately be deemed enforceable. We carry product liability insurance, but existing coverage may not be adequate to cover potential claims. Although we will deploy back-up systems, the failure of our products to perform as promised could result in increased costs, lower margins, liquidated damage payment obligations and harm to our reputation. This could result in contract terminations and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Failure to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology, intellectual property and manufacturing processes could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete effectively. We principally rely upon patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and contract law to establish and protect our proprietary rights. There is a risk that claims allowed on any patents or trademarks we hold may not be broad enough to protect our technology. In addition, our patents or trademarks may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and we cannot be certain that the rights granted there under will provide competitive advantages to us. Moreover, any current or future issued or licensed patents, or trademarks, or currently existing or future developed trade secrets or know-how may not afford sufficient protection against competitors with similar technologies or processes, and the possibility exists that certain of our alrea dy issued patents or trademarks may infringe upon third party patents or trademarks or be designed around by others. In addition, there is a risk that others 25 Table of Contents may independently develop proprietary technologies and processes, which are the same as, substantially equivalent or superior to ours, or become available in the market at a lower price. We may have to litigate to enforce our patents or trademarks or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights. Litigation could be very costly and divert management’s attention. An adverse outcome in any litigation may have a severe negative effect on our financial results and stock price. To determine the priority of inventions, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or oppositions in foreign patent and trademark offices, which could result in substantial cost and limitations on the scope or validity of our patents or trademarks. In addition, foreign laws treat the protection of proprietary rights differently from laws in the United States and may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. The failure of foreign laws or judicial systems to adequately protect our proprietary rights or intellectual property, including intellectual property developed on our behalf by foreign contractors or subcontractors may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial results and stock price. Legal claims regarding infringement by us or our suppliers of third party intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs, diversion of managerial resources and harm to our reputation. Although we believe that our products and services do not infringe currently existing and validly issued intellectual property rights of others, we might not be able to defend successfully against a third-party infringement claim. A successful infringement claim against us, our customers or our suppliers could subject us to: • liability for damages and litigation costs, including attorneys’ fees; • lawsuits that prevent us from further use of the intellectual property; • having to license the intellectual property from a third party, which could include significant licensing fees; • having to develop a non-infringing alternative, which could be costly and delay projects; • having to indemnify clients with respect to losses they incurred as a result of the alleged infringement; and • having to establish alternative sources for products supplied to us by third parties, as discussed above in the risk factor regarding their dependence on limited source suppliers. Our failure to prevail against any third party infringement claim could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Even if we are not found liable in a claim for intellectual property infringement, such a claim could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources and management attention, termination of customer contracts and harm to our reputation. We may be unable to obtain additional capital required to fund our operations and finance our growth. The installation of our secure credentialing systems requires capital expenditures. Moreover, our strategy includes growth of our business through acquisitions. At December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents of $5.0 million and availability under our line of credit of $67.5 million. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet current working capital requirements and have been successful in the past in obtaining financing for working capital, capital expenditures, and acquisitions, we expect to have ongoing capital needs as we continue to expand our business. If we require additional financing, we may be unsuccessful in raising additional financing or we may not be able to do so on terms that are not excessively dilutive to existing stockholders or less costly than existing sources of financing. Failure to secure additional financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon our development and expansion plans or to implement certain cost reduction initiatives resulting in the curtailment of our operations. We are dependent on a small number of individuals, and if we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, our business will be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of our senior management, including our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert V. LaPenta, and other members of our executive team. These individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with regards to advanced technology identity solutions. The loss of any of these individuals could severely harm our business. Our business is also highly dependent on our ability to retain, hire and motivate talented highly skilled personnel. Experienced personnel in the advanced technology identity solutions industry are in high demand and competition for their talents are intense. If we are unable to successfully attract, retain and motivate key personnel, our business may be severely harmed. Certain of our stockholders have significant relationships with us, which could result in it taking actions that are not supported by unaffiliated stockholders. In connection with the Aston investment, Aston became the largest stockholder of L-1, owning approximately 10.5% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, Lau Technologies, or (‘‘Lau’’), and Mr. Buddy Beck, beneficially own approximately 3% and 3%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Aston (together with its affiliate, L-1 Investment Partners LLC), Lau and Mr. Beck have an influence on matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and most corporate actions, such as mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we have significant relationships with each of L-1 Investment Partners LLC, Aston, Lau and Mr. Beck, including: • Mr. Robert V. LaPenta, the founder and Chief Executive Officer of L-1 Investments Partners LLC, is Chairman of our board of directors and Chief Executive Officer and President; • Mr. James DePalma, Mr. Joseph Paresi and Ms. Doni Fordyce who are affiliates of L-1 Investment Partners LLC and Aston, serve as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing and Sales Officer, and Executive Vice President and of Corporate Communications, respectively; • we acquired intellectual property, contracts and distribution channels through a transaction with Lau in January 2002 under which we agreed to pay Lau a 3.1% royalty on certain of our face recognition revenues through June 30, 2014, up to a maximum of $27.5 million; • in connection with the above transaction with Lau, we entered into consulting agreements with Ms. Joanna Lau, the President of Lau, and her spouse Mr. Denis K. Berube, the Chief Operating Officer of Lau who also serves as a director on our board of directors, under which we will pay each of Ms. Lau and Mr. Berube $125,000 per year through the earlier of January 10, 2012 or the commencement of the consultants’ full-time employment elsewhere. Mr. Berube and Ms. Lau own a majority of Lau’s stock; • in connection with the acquisition of TDT in February 2004, Mr. Beck was elected a member of our board of directors and we entered into a consulting agreement with Mr. Beck under which we agreed to pay Mr. Beck $300,000 per year for two years. The consulting agreement expired on April 14, 2006. The concentration of large percentages of ownership in any single stockholder, or in any series of single stockholders, may delay or prevent change in control of the Company. Additionally, the sale of a significant number of our shares in the open market by single stockholders or otherwise could adversely affect our stock price. Risks Related to Our Acquisition Strategy Integration of Identix and other recently acquired businesses may be difficult to achieve and will consume significant financial and managerial resources, which may adversely affect operations. We may encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays in integrating our operations with Identix and other recently acquired companies, including SpecTal, SecuriMetrics, IBT, Iridian and ComnetiX, Inc. such as: 27 Table of Contents • exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies or assets; • higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses; • assumption of ongoing litigation matters that may be highly complex and involve significant time, cost and expense (such as the dispute with LG assumed with in connection with our acquisition of Iridian and described under ‘‘Item 3. Legal Proceedings.’’) • potential conflicts between business cultures; • adverse changes in business focus perceived by third-party constituencies; • disruption of our ongoing business; • potential conflicts in distribution, marketing or other important relationships; • potential constraints of management resources; • failure to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful incorporation of acquired technology; • failure to realize the potential of acquired technologies, complete product development, or properly obtain or secure appropriate protection of intellectual property rights; and • loss of key employees and/or the diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns. In addition, we have offices in many locations and have moved our corporate headquarters from the Viisage facilities in Billerica, Massachusetts, to Stamford, Connecticut. Identix is headquartered in Minnetonka, Minnesota and has employees in seven locations. SpecTal is headquartered in Reston, Virginia and SecuriMetrics and Iridian are located in Martinez, California. IBT is located in Nashville, Tennessee and Springfield, Illinois and ComnetiX is headquartered in Oakville, Ontario, Canada. The geographic distance between the companies and their respective offices and operations increases the risk that the integration will not be completed successfully or in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may not be successful in overcomi ng these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the integration of the companies. The simultaneous integration of these acquisitions may place additional strain on our resources and increase the risk that our business may be adversely affected by the disruption caused by the acquisitions. Our strategy contemplates acquiring additional businesses, the integration of which may consume significant financial and managerial resources, and could have a severe negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions could result in future impairment charges and other charges which could adversely affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2006, goodwill and other intangible assets are $951.4 million and $170.1 million, respectively. Because goodwill represents a residual after the purchase price is allocated to the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, it is difficult to quantify the factors that contribute to the recorded amounts. Nevertheless, management believes that the following factors have contributed to the amount recorded: • technological development capabilities and intellectual capital; • expected significant growth in revenues and profits from the expanding market in identity solutions; and • expected synergies resulting from providing multi modal product offerings to existing customer base and to new customers of the combined company. The recorded amounts at the purchase date for goodwill and other intangible assets are estimates at a point in time and are based on valuations and other analyses of fair value that require significant estimates and assumptions about future events, including but not limited to projections of revenues, market growth, demand, technological developments, political developments, government policies, among other factors, which are derived from information obtained from independent sources, as well 28 Table of Contents as the management of the acquired businesses and our business plans for the acquired businesses or intellectual property. If estimates and assumptions used to initially record goodwill and intangible assets do not materialize, or unanticipated adverse developments or events occur, ongoing reviews of the carrying amounts of such goodwill and intangible assets may result in impairments which will require us to record a charge in the period in which such an impairment is identified, and could have a severe negative impact on its business and financial statements. If we do not achieve the expected benefits of the acquisitions we have made, the price of our common stock could decline. We expect that the acquisitions of Identix and Iridian in August 2006, SpecTal in October 2006, SecuriMetrics in February 2006 and ComnetiX in February 2007, as well as the acquisitions that we have made previously will enhance our leadership in the identity solutions industry through the combination of their respective technologies. However, the combination of such technologies might not meet the demands of the marketplace. If our technologies fail to meet such demand, customer acceptance of our biometric products could decline, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, we expect that the additions to our product portfolio will extend our reach into our current markets a nd provide a critical component to our comprehensive offering for new markets in need of identity solutions. However, there can be no assurance that our current customers or customers in new markets will be receptive to these additional offerings. Further, we might not be able to market successfully our products and services to the customers of the companies we acquired. If our product offerings and services fail to meet the demands of this marketplace, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. There is also a risk that we will not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions as rapidly as, or to the extent, anticipated by financial or industry analysts, or that such analysts will not perceive the same benefits to the acquisitions as they do. If these risks materialize, our stock price could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 