Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the company’s common stock is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the company are described below. These risks and uncertainties are not listed in any particular order of priority and are not necessarily the only ones facing the company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the company’s business and results of operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the company’s common stock could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose some or all of their investment. The Company Relies on Dividends From the Bank for Substantially All of its Revenue The company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the bank. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid by the bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds used to pay dividends on the company’s common stock and interest and principal on the company’s subordinated debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank may pay to the company. If the bank is unable to pay dividends to the company, then the company will be unable to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the company’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the bank could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 The Company May Be Impacted By Issues Associated With Sub-prime Mortgages As previously stated, the company has not and does not intend to originate mortgage loans that are considered “sub-prime” and the company has not purchased sub-prime mortgage-backed securities for the company’s investment portfolio. However, what has been called the “sub-prime mortgage crisis”, referring to the recent dramatic increase in the level of foreclosures both locally and nationally and the failure of several large national mortgage brokers, may have far-reaching and as yet unknown long-term consequences in the financial services industry and the economy in general. The current crisis has been marked by the collapse of the market for sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, increased volatility in financial markets, the tightening of credit for both consumers and businesses, and further weakening of the real estate market. Any long-term continuation of these current trends or possible subsequent effects could weaken the local economy and negatively impact the company’s financial condition and performance in a variety of ways even though the company itself has no direct exposure to sub-prime mortgages in either a lending or investment capacity. Among other potential adverse effects on the company that could result from the sub-prime mortgage crisis, the company could experience continued pressure on its net interest margin, deterioration in its asset quality and an increased level of delinquencies, an increase in the level of allowance for loan losses, decline in the value of the investment portfolio, and a decline in the market price of the company’s common stock. The Company is Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision The company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not the interests of shareholders. These regulations affect the company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Federal and state statutes and related regulations, including tax policy and corporate governance rules, can significantly affect the way in which bank holding companies, and public companies in general, conduct business. Changes to federal or state statutes, regulations or regulatory and tax policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of existing statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the company in substantial and unpredictable ways, including subjecting the company to additional operating and compliance costs, limiting the types of financial services and products the company may offer and/or increasing competition from other non-bank providers of financial services. See the section entitled “Supervision and Regulation” contained in Item 1, “Business”, for additional information regarding the supervisory and regulatory issues facing the company. The Company Operates in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area The company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have more financial resources than the company. These competitors include not only national, regional, and other community banks, but also various types of other non-bank financial institutions, such as credit unions, mortgage brokers, finance companies, brokerage firms, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. See the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1, “Business”, for additional information regarding the competitive issues facing the company. 15 The Company’s Profitability Depends Significantly on Economic Conditions in the Company’s Primary Market Areas The company’s success depends principally on the general economic conditions of the primary market areas in which the company operates. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the company’s products and services as well as the ability of the company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the company’s deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is Subject to Interest Rate Risk The company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income, meaning the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the company’s control. If the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”, for further discussions related to the company’s management of interest rate risk. The Company is Subject to Lending Risk There are inherent risks associated with the company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the market areas in which the company operates. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The company’s loan portfolio consists primarily of commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and construction loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than owner occupied residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. The underlying commercial real estate values, the actual costs necessary to complete a construction project, or customer cash flow and payment expectations on such loans can be more easily influenced by adverse conditions in the related industries, the real estate market or in the economy in general. Any significant deterioration in the company’s commercial loan portfolio or underlying collateral values could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the discussions contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, under the headings “Loans” and “Credit Risk/Asset Quality” included in the section entitled “Financial Condition”, for further information regarding the company’s commercial loan portfolio and credit risk. 16 The Company’s Allowance for Loan Losses May Be Insufficient The company maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is established through a provision for loan losses charged to earnings that represents management’s estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the company’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of the company’s management. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, depending upon the magnitude of the changes, could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the discussions contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, under the headings “Credit Risk/Asset Quality” and “Allowance for Loan Losses”, included in the section entitled “Financial Condition”, and under the heading “Allowance for Loan Losses”, which is contained in the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section of Item 7, for further information regarding the process by which the company determines the appropriate level of its allowance for loan losses. The Company’s Investment Portfolio May Incur Losses There are inherent risks associated with the company’s investment activities. These risks include the impact of changes in interest rates, weakness in the real estate or other industries, adverse changes in regional or national economic conditions, and general turbulence in domestic and foreign financial markets, among other things. These conditions could adversely impact the fair market value and the ultimate collectability of the company’s investments. Should an investment be deemed “other than temporarily impaired”, the company would be required to write-down the carrying value of the investment through earnings. Such write-down(s) may have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. Increased Reliance on Borrowings and Brokered CD’s as Sources of Funds Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Profitability The company has traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a lower cost source of funds than external funding (brokered CD’s or borrowings), because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for external funding. If, as result of competitive pressures, market interest rates, general economic conditions or other events, the balance of the company’s deposits decreases relative to the company’s overall banking operations, the company may have to rely more heavily on external funding in the future. Any such increased reliance on external funding could have a negative impact on the company’s net interest income and, consequently, on its results of operations and financial condition. The Company Continually Encounters Technological Change The banking industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Many of the company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the banking industry could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business and, in turn, the company’s financial condition and results of operations. 17 The Company’s Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security The company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the company’s information systems could interrupt the company’s ability to conduct business, process transactions, damage the company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, expose customer’s personal information to unauthorized parties, subject the company to additional regulatory scrutiny, and expose the company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the discussion under the heading “Opportunities and Risks” included in the section entitled “Overview”, which is contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, for further information regarding the company’s information security and technology practices. The Company Relies on Independent Service Providers The company relies on independent firms to provide key services necessary to conducting its business. These services include, but are not limited to: electronic funds delivery networks; electronic banking services; investment advisory, management and custodial services; correspondent banking services; information security assessments; and loan underwriting and review services. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the independent firms’ systems or in their delivery of services, could result in a loss of customer business, expose customer’s personal information to unauthorized parties, damage the company’s reputation and expose the company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates the company’s internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Slower than Expected Growth in New Branches and New Products and Services Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Profitability The company has placed a strategic emphasis on expanding the bank’s branch network and products and service offerings. Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth both in new branches and new products and services. New branches and new products and services require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources. Lower than expected loan and deposit growth in new branches and/or lower than expected fee or other income from new products and services could decrease anticipated revenues and net income generated by such investments. Opening new branches and introducing new products and services could also divert resources from current core operations and thereby further adversely affect the company’s growth and profitability. Growth Strategies Involving Acquisitions Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Profitability The company may in the future explore growth opportunities through acquisition of other banks, financial services companies or lines of their business. Any future acquisition could adversely affect the company’s profitability based on management’s ability to successfully complete the acquisition and integrate the acquired business. 18 The Company May Not be Able to Attract and Retain Key Personnel The company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the company can be intense and the company may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that it depends upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Directors and Executive Officers Own a Significant Portion of Common Stock The company’s directors and executive officers as a group beneficially own approximately 28% of the company’s outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2007. As a result of this combined ownership interest, the directors and executive officers have the ability, if they vote their shares in a like manner, to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. Shareholder Dilution May Occur if Additional Stock is Issued in the Future If the company’s board of directors should determine in the future that there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of the company’s common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock, such issuances could result in dilution to existing shareholders’ ownership interest. Similarly, if the board of directors decides to grant additional restricted stock shares or options for the purchase of shares of common stock, the issuance of such additional restricted stock shares and/or the issuance of additional shares upon the exercise of such options may expose shareholders to dilution. The Trading Volume in the Company’s Common Stock is Less Than That of Larger Companies Although the company’s common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume in the company’s common stock is substantially less than that of larger companies. Given the lower trading volume of the company’s common stock, significant purchases or sales of the company’s common stock, or the expectation of such purchases or sales, could cause significant swings up or down in the company’s stock price. The Market Price of the Company’s Common Stock May be Affected by General Industry Issues The banking industry may be more affected than other industries by certain economic, credit or information security issues. Although the company itself may or may not be directly impacted by such issues, the company’s stock price may swing up or down due to the influence, both real and perceived, of these issues on the banking industry in general. The Company’s Articles Of Organization, By-Laws and Shareholders Rights Plan as Well as Certain Banking Laws May Have an Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of the company’s articles of organization and by-laws, its shareholders rights plan and certain federal and state banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the company’s shareholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the company’s common stock. Additional Factors Described Elsewhere in This Report In addition to the factors listed above in this section, additional important factors that could adversely affect the results of the company’s future operations are described below under the heading “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 