Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a significant degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in our publicly filed documents, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such an event, the trading price of our Common Shares could decline and shareholders may lose part or all of their investment in our securities. Our Clinical Trials for our Therapeutic Products in Development, Such as NX-1207, May Not Be Successful and We May Not Receive the Required Regulatory Approvals Necessary to Commercialize These Products Products requiring regulatory approval, such as NX-1207, will be approved for commercial sale only if governmental regulatory authorities are satisfied that our clinical trials are properly designed and conducted and that the results of those trials provide valid and acceptable evidence that the product is safe and effective for the conditions or diseases it is intended to treat. We do not know whether our pending or any future clinical trials will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or will result in marketable products. Clinical trials are lengthy, complex, expensive and uncertain processes and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Results attained in pre-clinical testing or in early clinical trials may not be indicative of results that are obtained in later studies. We may suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier studies. Based on results at any stage of clinical trials, we may decide to repeat or redesign a trial or discontinue development of one or more of our product candidates. If we fail to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products under development, we will not be able to obtain the required regulatory approvals to commercialize our product candidates. On November 2, 2014, following the completion of data verification and auditing procedures, top-line results of the Phase 3 NX02-0017 and NX02-0018 U.S. clinical trials of NX-1207 for BPH at 12 months post-treatment were not statistically significant compared to placebo. The Corporation is in the process of further data analysis and assessments of the two studies, and expects to continue its efforts to work on the development program. Setbacks in our clinical trials or failure to obtain regulatory approval could cause the price of our shares to decline and adversely affect our business, operations, product development programs and financial condition. See “A Setback in Any of Our Clinical Trials Would Likely Cause a Drop in the Price of Our Shares”. Our Clinical Trials for Certain Of Our Therapeutic Products May Be Delayed, Making it Impossible to Achieve Anticipated Development or Commercialization Timelines And Our Development of NX-1207 for BPH Has Been Delayed Due To Negative Results In Phase III Clinical Trials. Delays in the initiation, conduct or completion of clinical trials are not uncommon. If one or more of our clinical trials is delayed, we may be unable to meet our anticipated development or commercialization timelines. Either circumstance could cause the price of our shares to decline, increase clinical trial and product development costs, and affect the Corporation’s business, operations, product development programs and financial condition. The design, conduct and completion of clinical trials is a complex process involving many third parties, including governmental authorities, institutional review boards, contract manufacturers, contract research organizations, consultants, investigators, patients, and data monitoring committees. The initiation, progress, completion and success of a clinical trial is in part dependent on third parties providing necessary approvals, agreements and consents, performing necessary tasks in a timely, competent manner, and complying with protocols, good clinical practices and applicable laws, rules and regulations. Failure of a third party to perform as expected or agreed upon may result in delays or failure in initiating or completing a clinical trial. Our clinical trials are subject to prior approvals and continuing oversight by governmental regulatory authorities and institutional review boards. We must meet and comply with their requirements in order to start, continue and successfully complete a clinical trial. We may not be able to comply with one or more of these requirements or there may be delays in doing so. A clinical trial may be put on hold or halted altogether due to concerns about patient safety. Governmental regulatory authorities may change approvals or requirements, resulting in changes to the design or conduct of a clinical trial or the need for new or further clinical trials. Clinical trials for our product candidates require that we identify and enroll a large number of patients with the disorder under investigation. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors including: design of the protocol; the size of the patient population; eligibility criteria for the study in question; perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study; availability of competing therapies; 5 efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials; patient referral practices of physicians; and availability of clinical trial sites. On November 2, 2014, following the completion of data verification and auditing procedures and the unblinding and top line analysis of efficacy of the studies, Nymox announced that the NX02-0017 and NX02-0018 Phase 3 clinical trials had failed to meet their primary endpoints. Top-line results of the Phase 3 NX02-0017 and NX02-0018 U.S. clinical trials of NX-1207 for BPH at 12 months post-treatment were not statistically significant compared to placebo. The Corporation is in the process of further data analysis and assessments of the two studies, and expects to continue its efforts to work on the development program. If we have difficulty enrolling a sufficient number of patients to conduct our clinical trials as planned, we may need to delay or terminate ongoing clinical trials. A Setback in Any of Our Clinical Trials Would Likely Cause a Drop in the Price of Our Shares On November 2, 2014, following the completion of data verification and auditing procedures and the unblinding and top line analysis of efficacy of the studies, Nymox announced that the NX02-0017 and NX02-0018 Phase 3 clinical trials had failed to meet their primary endpoints. On November 3, 2014 the Corporation’s stock fell approximately 82%, from $5.14 to $0.93. The clinical testing of drug candidates is fraught with uncertainties and positive results from earlier clinical trials may not be repeated in later trials. As well, government regulators such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, may require additional testing or further documentation relating to the preclinical testing, clinical studies, manufacturing or other issues at any time. These requirements may result in substantial delays in obtaining regulatory approval or make obtaining such approval much more difficult. Setbacks in any phase of the clinical development of our product candidates could have a negative impact on our business, operations, product development programs and financial condition, could jeopardize FDA or other regulatory approval and would likely cause a further drop in the price of our shares. We May Not be Able to Make Adequate Arrangements with Third Parties for the Commercialization of Our Product Candidates, such as NX-1207 In order to commercialize our product candidates successfully, we intend, on a product-by-product basis, either to make arrangements with third parties to perform some or all of these services or to expand our existing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. We currently have limited sales and marketing capabilities and limited experience in developing, training or managing a large marketing or sales force. We currently rely primarily upon distributors for the sales of our existing products. The cost of establishing and maintaining a larger sales force would be substantial and may exceed its cost effectiveness. In addition, in marketing our products, we would likely compete with many companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Despite our marketing and sales efforts, we may be unable to compete successfully against these companies. We may make arrangements with third parties to market and sell some or all of our products under development in certain territories, rather than establish our own sales force. We may not be able to do so on favorable terms. If we contract with third parties for the sales and marketing of our products, our revenues will depend upon the efforts of these third parties, whose efforts may not be successful. We anticipate entering into co-development and co-marketing agreements with one or more partners with established sales, marketing and regulatory capabilities in order to assist in the completion of the development and commercialization of NX-1207. We may not be able to do so on favourable terms. If we fail to establish or make adequate arrangements with third parties for such purposes, our business, operations, product development programs and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. In December 2010, the Corporation signed a license and collaboration agreement with Recordati, a European pharmaceutical group, for the development and commercialization of NX-1207 in Europe including Russia and the CIS, the Middle East, the Maghreb area of North Africa and South Africa (the “Licensed Territory”). After the top-line statistical failure of Nymox’s U.S. Phase 3 studies NX02-0017 and NX02-0018 at 12 months post-treatment, Recordati has terminated development and commercialization activities of NX-1207 in the licensed territories. We May Not Achieve Our Projected Development Goals in the Time Frames We Announce and Expect We make public statements regarding the achievement of our milestones, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, regulatory submission and approval dates and time of product launch. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failures in our clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements sufficient to commercialize our products. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the launch of any of our products. If we fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, for instance, such as the completion of our Phase 6 3 development of NX-1207 for BPH, which has been delayed due to certain negative results, the price of our shares could decline. Even If We Obtain Regulatory Approvals for Our Product Candidates, We Will be Subject to Stringent Ongoing Government Regulation Even if regulatory authorities approve any of our product candidates, the manufacture, marketing and sale of such products will be subject to strict and ongoing regulation. Compliance with such regulation will be expensive and consume substantial financial and management resources. For example, an approval for a product may be conditioned on our conducting costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, if based on these studies, a regulatory authority does not believe that the product demonstrates a benefit to patients, such authority could limit the indications for which the product may be sold or revoke the product’s regulatory approval. We and our contract manufacturers will be required to comply with applicable current Good Manufacturing Practice (“cGMP”) regulations for the manufacture of our products. These regulations include requirements relating to quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities must be approved before we can use them in commercial manufacturing of our products and are subject to subsequent periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. In addition, material changes in the methods of manufacturing or changes in the suppliers of raw materials are subject to further regulatory review and approval. If we or any marketing collaborators or contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to sanctions including fines, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, civil penalties, and withdrawals of previously granted regulatory approvals and criminal prosecution. Any of these penalties could delay or prevent the development, marketing or sale of our products. It is Uncertain When, if Ever, We Will Make a Profit We first began operations in 1995 and are only in the early stages of commercial marketing of our diagnostic products, AlzheimAlert™, NicAlert™ and TobacAlert™. We have never made a profit. We incurred a net loss of approximately $4.9 million in 2013 and $4.6 million in 2014. As of December 31, 2014, Nymox’s accumulated deficit was approximately $100.0 million and we have negative cash flows from operations. As at December 31, 2014, we had negative working capital (excluding deferred revenue) of $580,375. We cannot say when, if ever, Nymox will become profitable or operate with positive cash flows and/or working capital. Profitability will depend on our uncertain ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products and the licensing of ou r technology that will offset the significant expenditures required for us to advance our research, protect and extend our intellectual property and develop, manufacture, license, market, distribute and sell our technology and products successfully. Similar types of expenditures in the past have contributed to the net losses reported above. We Will Require Additional Funding to Continue as a Going Concern The Corporation will require additional funds to pursue its operations as a going concern for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015 and beyond, some of the funds of which would be used to conduct further research and development, schedule clinical testing, obtain regulatory approvals and the commercialization of its product candidates. The Corporation had available cash of approximately $632,272 and a working capital deficiency (excluding deferred revenue) of $580,375 as of December 31, 2014. Cash flows used in operations during 2014 were $5,515,479. Management believes that current cash balances as at December 31, 2014 and anticipated funds from product sales are not sufficient to fund substantially all of its planned business operations and research and development programs over the next year. The Corporation intends to access financing through the existing Common Stock Private Purchase Agreement and/or other sources of capital in order to fund these operations and activities over the next year. If the purchaser does not purchase the Corporation`s common shares as provided for under the Common Stock Private Purchase Agreement, the Corporation will have to seek other sources of financing in order to be able to pay its obligations as they become due, which could have an impact on its ability to continue as a going concern. There can be no assurance that any additional funding will be available at terms that are acceptable to the Corporation to enable the Corporation to continue to pursue its operations. Considering recent developments and the need for additional financing, there exists a material uncertainty that casts substantial doubt about the Corporation’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not reflect adjustments that would be necessary if the going concern assumption was not appropriate. If the going concern assumption is not appropriate, then adjustments may be necessary to the carrying value and classification of assets and liabilities and reported results of operations and such adjustments could be material. 7 We have incurred operating losses throughout our history. Management believes that such operating losses will continue for at least the next few years as a result of expenditures relating to research and development of our potential therapeutic products. Our Ability to Draw on the Common Stock Private Purchase Agreement, Which Expires in November 2015, is Dependent on Adhering to General Covenants Under the Common Stock Private Purchase Agreement, the Corporation must adhere to general covenants in order to draw on its facility, including maintaining its stock exchange listing and registration requirements and having no material adverse effects, as defined in the Common Stock Private Purchase Agreement, with respect to the business and operations of the Corporation. In the past, the Corporation has been successful in obtaining the required financing pursuant to the Agreement. As of the date of the financial statements, the Corporation has not received any communication from the counterparty in the Agreement that it will not honor the Corporation`s future draw-down notices under the Agreement or that it intends to terminate the Agreement. As at the date hereof, the Common Stock Private Purchase Agreement, set to expire in November 2015, has not been renewed. In prior years the Corporation typically has renewed the Common Stock Private Purchase Agreement approximately one year prior to its scheduled expiry date. If we are unable to renew the agreement in a timely fashion or at all or unable to comply with the covenants set forth in the agreement, the Corporation will have to seek other sources of financing in order to continue to operate as a going concern. There can be no assurance that any additional funding will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The inability to raise additional capital would have a material adverse effect on the business and operations. We Have Identified a Material Weakness in Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Although We Expect to Make Every Effort to Address this Material Weakness, We May Find that We are Unable to Remediate this Deficiency in Our Control Environment, Which Could Reduce the Reliability of Our Financial Reporting, Harm Investor Confidence in Our Company and Affect the Value of Our Common Stock. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting. The material weakness relates to incompatible duties related to certain processes, primarily impacting the expenditures/disbursements processes and related information technology general controls, and sufficient compensating controls did not exist. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We intend to address the material weakness in the immediate future with oversight from our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors to remediate the material weakness. If we fail to effectively remediate the material weakness in our control environment we may be unable to accurately report our financial results, or report them within the timeframes required by the SEC. Even if we are able to report our financial statements accurately and in a timely manner, if we do not make all necessary improvements to address the material weakness, continued disclosure of a material weakness will be required in future filings with the SEC and the accuracy of our financial statements may be called into question, both of which would likely cause our reputation to be harmed and our stock price to decline. We Face Challenges in Developing, Manufacturing and Improving Our Products Our success depends on our ability to develop or acquire rights to new products or to improve our existing products. We are still developing many of our products and have not yet brought them to market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop or acquire rights to such products and to market them successfully. Developing a treatment for Alzheimer’s disease is particularly challenging. Many pharmaceutical companies, institutions and researchers are working on many different approaches and treatments. There is no consensus among researchers about the cause of this fatal illness and no guarantee that our drug development programs in this area are targeting significant factors in its cause, progression or symptoms. It is difficult to design drug candidates that can cross from the bloodstream into the brain, where the damage from Alzheimer’s disease is occurring. Clinical trials to establish efficacy for drugs that slow down the progression of Alzheimer’s disease over a period of months or years often require that a large number of subjects be tracked over many months or years, making them very expensive to conduct. The potentially long period from discovery and patenting through development and regulatory approval to the market can significantly reduce the patent life of an Alzheimer’s disease treatment. Any marketed treatment in this area may well eventually face competition from “me-too” drugs developed by other pharmaceutical companies based on our research. We will be under constant competitive pressure to improve our products and to develop new treatments in order to protect our position in the field. Developing and improving our diagnostic products is also challenging. The science and technology of the detection and measurement of very small amounts of biochemicals in bodily fluids and tissue is evolving rapidly. We may need to make significant expenditures in research and development costs and licensing fees in order to take advantage of new technologies. If any major changes to our testing technologies used in our NicAlert™ or TobacAlert™ tests are made, further validation studies will be required. Developing new diagnostic products is more challenging, requiring identification and 8 validation of the biochemical marker being detected by the new product in the clinical context and the development and validation of the product designed to detect the marker. We anticipate outsourcing at least some of the manufacturing required for new products we may develop in order to control start-up and operating costs and to take advantage of the existing manufacturing capabilities and capacity in the large contract manufacturing sectors in the pharmaceutical and diagnostic industries. There are risks associated with this strategy, including difficulties in the transfer of manufacturing, the possibility of production interruption due to causes beyond our control and the need to arrange alternative suppliers. We currently out-source some of the manufacturing services required for our NicAlert™ and TobacAlert™ products to a contract manufacturer. We do not anticipate any significant risk of long-term interruption of manufacture due to this arrangement. The services supplied are not unique or unduly complicated and other contract manufacturers are available to provide similar services. The manufacture of therapeutics is more challenging and capital-intensive and may require us to partner with a major pharmaceutical corporation or other partner in order to manufacture a therapeutic for market. Our Products and Services May Not Receive Necessary Regulatory Approvals Our diagnostic products, NicAlert™ and TobacAlert™, and our products in development, are subject to a wide range of government regulation governing laboratory standards, product safety and efficacy. The actual regulatory schemes in place vary from country to country and regulatory compliance can take several years and involve substantial expenditures. We cannot be sure that we can obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for our products in development and all of the following could have a material adverse effect on our business: failure to obtain or significant delays in obtaining requisite approvals; loss of or changes to previously obtained approvals; and failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements. Any changes in the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) or state law requirements or in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) regulations could have a detrimental impact on our ability to offer or market any reference laboratory services and/or on our ability to obtain reimbursement from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and providers. Similar requirements exist in many other countries. Obtaining these approvals and complying with the subsequent global regulatory requirements can be both time-consuming and expensive. In the United States, our drugs in development will require final FDA approval before their sale or distribution. Such approval comes only at the end of a lengthy, expensive and often arduous process. In September, 2006, we announced the successful completion of a multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 trial of NX-1207, our lead candidate for the treatment of BPH, a common disorder of older men. In February 2008, the Corporation reported positive results in a 32 site U.S. Phase 2 prospective randomized clinical trial, with statistically significant improvement compared to an approved BPH drug (finasteride). Subsequent to the completion of the Phase 2 studies, the Corporation has reported positive results in several follow-up studies of BPH patients that participated in the Phase 2 studies. In February 2009, the Corporation reported concluding a positive and productive End of Phase 2 (“EOP2”) meeting with the FDA concerning the Phase 3 program for NX-1207. In June 2009, the Corporation began conducting the first of two pivotal double blind placebo controlled Phase 3 trials for NX-1207 that incorporate the specific protocol design recommendations provided to the Corporation by the FDA. Top-line results of the Phase 3 NX02-0017 and NX02-0018 U.S. clinical trials of NX-1207 for BPH at 12 months post-treatment were not statistically significant compared to placebo. The Corporation is in the process of further data analysis and assessments of the two studies, and expects to continue its efforts to work on the development program. The Corporation previously successfully completed four Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials of NX-1207 for BPH as well as over ten additional follow-up studies. We cannot predict with any certainty the outcome of this program, what further steps may be required in order to apply for final FDA approval for this drug or whether the FDA will ultimately grant us such approval. Similar requirements exist in many other countries. We Face Significant and Growing Competition The modern pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive, particularly with respect to Alzheimer’s disease where there is a large unmet need for an effective treatment. Currently there are five drugs with similar mechanisms of action approved for sale in the United States (Aricept®, Cognex®, Exelon®, Razadyne® and Namenda®). These drugs offer some relatively short-term symptomatic relief, but do not treat the underlying causes of the illness. Over the past decade, there has been an intense research effort both in the non-profit sectors such as universities, government agencies and research institutes and in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry to develop new treatments for Alzheimer’s disease. Treatment candidates in clinical trials include: vaccines and other active immunotherapies for Alzheimer’s disease (GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis); inhibitors of the production of beta-amyloid, one of the abnormal proteins associated with Alzheimer’s disease. (Merck); antibodies that bind to beta-amyloid (Eli Lilly, Eisai, Genentech, Roche); 9 drugs targeting the tau protein which forms tangles in brain cells of Alzheimer’s disease patient. (TauRx Therapeutics, Bristol-Myers Squibb); drugs designed to enhance cognition (Merck, AbbVie, EnVivo Pharmaceuticals, Lundbeck; and diabetes drugs, including insulin and medications for treating Type 2 diabetes (Takeda). There is also ongoing research into possible methods of preventing Alzheimer’s disease such as taking certain cholesterol-lowering drugs called statins, estrogen replacement therapies, anti-oxidants such as vitamin E and ginkgo biloba, nutraceuticals such as resveratrol and docosahexanoic acid (an omega 3 fatty acid), or anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen (e.g., Advil® or Motrin®). The successful development of a treatment or method of preventing Alzheimer’s disease could significantly impact on our ability to develop or market a competing treatment for Alzheimer’s disease. Our treatments under development for enlarged prostate BPH face significant competition from existing products. There are nine drugs approved for treatment of BPH: five proprietary drugs (dutasteride (Avodart®), tamsulosin (Flomax®), alfusozin (Uroxatral®), silodosin (Rapaflo®), and tadalofil (Cialis®)), a combination of two drugs (dutasteride and tamsulosin) (Jalyn™), and four generics (finasteride, terazozin, doxazozin, and prazosin). There are a number of thermal treatments on the market designed to shrink the enlarged prostate by heating its tissue with a device inserted through the urethra (the passage leading from the bladder through the penis through which men urinate). The devices on the market use microwave energy (Prostatron®, Targis Therapy® or TherMatrx®), low level radiowaves (TUNA System®), lasers (Indigo LaserOptic Treatment System® or Laserscope GreenLight PVP™), direct heat, energy or hot water to heat or burn away prostate tissue. A variety of surgical procedures exist to surgically reduce or remove the prostate or to widen the urethra. These include procedures to cu t away prostate tissue such as TURP (transurethral resection of the prostate) and using a resectoscope with an electrical loop inserted through the penis to cut the prostate tissue. A small device used to widen the constricted urethra called a prostatic stent can also be inserted. In 2013, the FDA approved the Urolift™ system, a permanent surgical implant designed to pull back prostate tissue to improve urination in men with BPH. The diagnostic testing industry is also highly competitive. In the area of Alzheimer’s disease, Athena Diagnostics, Inc. markets diagnostic tests for different biochemical indicators found in blood and spinal fluid and for genetic predispositions for the illness. Other companies are attempting to develop and market other diagnostic products in this area. The FDA has approved two radioactive diagnostic agents for Positron Emission Tomography (“PET”) imaging as an aid to the evaluation of patients with signs of Alzheimer’s disease: Amyvid® (florbetapir), marketed by Lilly, and Vizamyl® (flutemetamol), marketed by GE Healthcare. Other companies are also developing similar technologies. The introduction of other diagnostics products for Alzheimer’s disease or tobacco product use that are cheaper, easier to perform, more accurate or otherwise more attractive to the physicians, health care payers or other potential customers would have a significant impact on the sales of our NicAlert™ or TobacAlert™ products. We May Not Be Able to Successfully Market Our Products To increase our marketing, distribution and sales capabilities both in the United States and around the world, we will need to enter into licensing arrangements, contract sales agreements and co-marketing deals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into agreements with other companies on terms acceptable to us, that any licensing arrangement will generate any revenue for the Corporation or that the costs of engaging and retaining the services of a contract sales organization will not exceed the revenues generated. Protecting Our Patents and Proprietary Information is Costly and Difficult We believe that patent and trade secret protection is important to our business, and that our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain strong patents, to maintain trade secret protection and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Obtaining and maintaining our patent position is costly. We pay for the filing, prosecution and fees of several hundred patents and patent applications in countries around the world, including the United States, Europe, Japan, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Korea. In the United States alone, Nymox has twenty-four patents issued or allowed relating to its technology. Our subsidiary, Serex, Inc. has nine patents. While we believe that we have strong patent protection for the products we sell and for our product development programs and we are in the process of extending that patent protection to cover more countries or new discoveries or products, we cannot assure you that additional patents covering new products or improvements will be issued or that any new or existing patents will be of commercial benefit or be valid and enforceable if challenged. Many companies have patents covering various drugs, methods and discoveries in the fields of diagnostics and therapeutics for Alzheimer’s disease and related conditions and of new anti-infective agents. We believe that the patents issued to date should not preclude Nymox from developing and marketing our products; however, it is impossible to predict the extent to which licenses from third parties will be necessary. If Nymox were to need licenses from third parties there can be no assurance that we could obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 10 In the fields of diagnostic methods and diagnostic tests for common human diseases and conditions, where Serex has many of its patents, there are many patents issued covering many areas of diagnostic methods, tests and technologies. We believe that these patents issued to date to other companies will not preclude Serex from developing and marketing its products but you should be aware that it is often difficult to determine the nature, breadth and validity of competing patent claims in th ese fields, that there has been significant litigation in some of these areas (not involving Serex) and that, if and when Serex’s products become more commercially successful, Serex’s products or patents may become the subject matter of litigation. If Serex were to need licenses from third parties there can be no assurance that it could obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We are not currently involved in patent litigation. In the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry patent disputes are frequent and can preclude the commercialization of products. Patent litigation is costly and the outcome often difficult to predict. It can expose us to significant liabilities to third parties and may require us to obtain third-party licenses at a material cost or cease using the technology or product in dispute. We Face Changing Market Conditions The healthcare industry is in transition with a number of changes that affect the market for therapeutic and diagnostic test products. The U.S. federal and various state governments have under consideration a number of proposals that may have the effect of directly or indirectly limiting drug prices in the U.S. markets. In March 2010, the United States enacted health care reform legislation, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Important market reforms have begun and will continue through full implementation in 2014 and beyond. The new law is expected to expand access to health care to more than 32 million Americans by the end of the decade. These changes may adversely affect the prices we may charge for any therapeutic drug we develop. Funding changes and budgetary considerations can lead major health care payers and providers to make changes in reimbursement policies for our products. These changes can seriously impact the potential for growth for the market for our products, either favorably when the decision is to offer coverage for our products at a reasonable price or negatively when the decision is to deny coverage altogether. Changes in the healthcare delivery system have resulted in consolidations and in the formation of multi-hospital alliances, reducing the number of institutional customers for therapeutic and diagnostic test products. There can be no assurance that Nymox will be able to enter into and/or sustain contractual or other marketing or distribution arrangements on a satisfactory commercial basis with these institutional customers. Health Care Plans May Not Cover or Adequately Pay for Our Products and Services Throughout the developed world, both public and private health care plans are under considerable financial and political pressure to contain their costs. The two principal methods of restricting expenditures on drugs and diagnostic products and services are to deny coverage or, if coverage is granted, to limit reimbursement. For single-payer government health care systems, a decision to deny coverage or to severely restrict reimbursement for one of our products can have an adverse effect on our business and revenues. In the United States, where, to a significant degree, the patient population for our products is elderly, Medicare and Medicaid are sources of reimbursement. In general, any restriction on reimbursement, coverage or eligibility under either program could adversely affect reimbursement to Nymox for products and services provided to beneficiaries of the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs. Many elderly people are covered by a variety of private health care organizations either operating private health care plans or Medicare or Medicaid programs subject to government regulation. These organizations are also under considerable financial constraints and we may not be able to secure coverage or adequate reimbursement from these organizations. Without coverage, we will have to look to the patients themselves who may be unwilling or unable to pay for the product; in turn, doctors may be reluctant to order or prescribe our products in the absence of coverage of the product for the patient. We Are Subject to Continuing Potential Product Liability Risks, Which Could Cost Us Material Amounts of Money We may be subject to product liability which could task our critical resources, delay the implementation of our business strategy, result in products being recalled or removed from the market, and materially and adversely harm our business and financial condition due to the costs of defending such legal actions or the payment of any judgments or settlements relating to such actions or both. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the development and marketing, distribution, and sale of pharmaceutical and diagnostic products. If any of our product candidates or marketed products harms people, or is alleged to be harmful, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims brought against us by clinical trial participants, consumers, patients, health care providers, corporate partners or others. We have product liability insurance covering our ongoing clinical trials and marketed products. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover fully all potential claims, nor can we guarantee the solvency of any of our insurers. If our claims experience results in higher rates, or if product liability insurance otherwise becomes costlier because of general economic, market or industry conditions, then we may not be able to maintain product liability coverage on acceptable terms. If sales of 11 our products increase materially, or if we add significant products to our portfolio, then we will require increased coverage and may not be able to secure such coverage at reasonable rates or terms. If our insurance coverage is not sufficient to cover fully all potential claims, the Corporation would be exposed to the risk that our litigation costs and liability could exceed our total assets and our ability to pay. We Have Become Involved in Securities Class Action Litigation that is Expected to Divert Management's Attention and Could Harm our Business. On November 24, 2014, a shareholder of the Corporation, filed a proposed class action suit in the United States District Court, District of New Jersey, against the Corporation and the President and the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. The motion was heard on January 26, 2015, and was the first procedural step before any class action could be instituted. The plaintiff seeks certification of a class action on behalf of all persons, wherever they reside, who acquired the Corporation’s common stock between January 31, 2011 and November 2, 2014. The plaintiff alleges that certain of the Corporation’s disclosures failed to disclose material adverse facts that raised serious questions as to the ability to achieve significant results for NX-1207 in Phase 3 trials in light of difficulty of enrolling candidates, obtaining objective and measured results, and the placebo effect. The Corporation believes that the allegations made against it in these actions are meritless and will vigorou sly defend the matter, although no assurance can be given with respect to the ultimate outcome of such proceedings. No provision has been recognized in our financial statements for this matter. Litigation, such as this shareholder class action, often is expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. The Issuance of New Shares May Dilute Nymox’s Stock The Corporation relies almost exclusively on financing to fund its operations. In order to achieve the Corporation’s business plan and realization of its assets and liabilities in the normal course of operations, the Corporation anticipates the need to raise additional capital and/or achieve sales and other revenue generating activities. The Corporation has historically primarily depended on financing under the Common Stock Private Purchase Agreement to fund its operations. The Corporation issued convertible notes in the amount of $1,070,000 on December 16, 2014, convertible into 2,007,504 common shares of the Corporation at a conversion price of $0.533 per share that, if converted, will dilute our common stock. Moreover, Nymox may use its shares as currency in acquisitions. The issuance of further shares and the eligibility of issued shares for sale will dilute our common stock and may lower its share price. There were 36,755,503 common shares of Nymox issued and outstanding as of March 31, 2015. A total of 548,529 warrants are outstanding, with exercise prices range from $0.54 to $2.00 and expiry dates range from January 2017 to December 2017. In addition, 5,104,500 share options are outstanding, of which 5,042,000 are currently vested. Expiry dates for Nymox options range from 1.5 years to 10.7 years (see note 12(b) to our consolidated financial statements). These options have been granted to employees, officers, directors and consultants of the Corporation. If We Fail to Regain Compliance With the Requirements for Continued Listing on The NASDAQ Stock Market, Our Common Shares Could be Delisted from Trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market, Which Would Adversely Affect the Liquidity of Our Common Shares and Our Ability to Raise Additional Capital. Our common shares are currently listed for quotation on the NASDAQ Stock Market. We are required to meet specified financial requirements in order to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Stock Market. On December 16, 2014, the Corporation was notified by the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications department that the Corporation’s Nasdaq Capital Market requirements were currently deficient for the preceding 30 consecutive business days. However, the Listing Rules provide the Corporation a compliance period of 180 calendar days in which to regain compliance. In order to do so, the Corporation must maintain a minimum market value of $35 million for a minimum of ten consecutive business days and the closing bid price of the Corporation’s common share must be at least $1 for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. Failure to meet the listing requirements may lead to delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market in which case the Corporation will consider an alternate trading platform for its common shares. Any potential delisting of our common shares from the NASDAQ Stock Market would make it more difficult for our shareholders to sell our shares in the public market and would likely result in decreased liqu idity, limited availability of market quotations for common shares, limited availability of news and analyst coverage regarding our company, a decreased ability to issue additional securities and increased volatility in the price of our common shares. Further, if we were no longer listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market or any other U.S. exchange then we would be in violation of a covenant in the Common Share Purchase Agreement and the purchaser under that agreement would not be required to purchase our common shares, which would impede our ability to raise capital and have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We Face Potential Losses Due to Foreign Currency Exchange Risks Nymox incurs certain expenses, principally relating to salaries and operating expenses at its Canadian office, in Canadian dollars. All other expenses are derived in U.S. dollars. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of losses due to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar. We protect ourselves against this risk by maintaining cash balances in both currencies. We do not currently engage in hedging activities. The Corporation may suffer losses as a result of unfavorable fluctuations in the exchange rates between the United States dollar and Canadian dollar. 12 We Have Never Paid a Dividend and are Unlikely to do so in the Foreseeable Future Nymox has never paid any dividends and does not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. We expect to retain any earnings or positive cash flow in order to finance and develop Nymox’s business. 