Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors and other information set forth in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. The risks set forth below are in addition to risks that apply to most businesses. Our business and future performance may be affected by the following: We Have Incurred Losses from Continuing Operations for the Past Five Years, Except 2001. Our Losses Have Adversely Affected Our Ability to Compete. We incurred losses from continuing operations of $1.5 million, $34.8 million, $19.0 million and $19.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and we had income from continuing operations of $6.3 million in 2001. Our losses have impaired our ability to market our products and services in competition against companies that are more profitable. If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability, it may impair our ability to compete effectively. Failure to Achieve and Maintain Effective Internal Controls Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Operating Results and Stock Price. We have documented and tested our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. These reports are included in this Form 10-K under Item 9A. Controls and Procedures and in our Financial Statements on page F-1. As indicated in Item 9A and previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, filed with the SEC on March 25, 2005, as amended by Amendment No. 1, filed with the SEC on April 29, 2005, and Amendment No. 2, filed with the SEC on January 4, 2006 and in the Company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2005 (as amended and filed on January 4, 2006), August 9, 2005 and November 9, 2005, our management identified control deficiencies and material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and in our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2004 and as of the end of each quarter in 2005 through September 30, 2005. During 2005, the Company invested significant time and resources to remediate such material weaknesses, and as such, there were significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting during 2005 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting in a positive way. As a result of these remediation efforts, our management believes that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are effective as of December 31, 2005. However, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are important in helping ensure that we produce reliable financial reports and in helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Additional Costs for Complying With Recent and Proposed Future Changes in SEC, American Stock Exchange and Accounting Rules Could Adversely Affect Our Profits. Recent and proposed future changes in SEC and American Stock Exchange rules, as well as changes in accounting rules, have caused us, and will continue to cause us, to incur additional costs including professional 14 Table of Contents fees and added personnel costs, in order to keep informed of the changes and operate in a compliant manner. We incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional general and administrative expenses as we implement and maintain compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls. These additional costs may be significant enough to cause our financial position and results of operation to be adversely affected. In addition, compliance with these new rules could also result in continued diversion of management’s time and attention, which could prove to be disruptive to our normal business operations. Failure to comply with any of the new laws and regulations could adversely impact market perception of our Company, which could make it difficult to access the capital markets or otherwise finance our operations in the future. Our Ability to Borrow or Issue Additional Shares of Preferred Stock Is Restricted by the Terms of Our Series A Preferred Stock. The Certificate of Designation governing our Series A Preferred Stock provides that so long as at least 600,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, at least 66 2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be required to approve the incurrence by QuadraMed of any long-term senior indebtedness of QuadraMed in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $8,000,000, excluding certain prior existing indebtedness. Furthermore, the Certificate of Designation requires the affirmative vote of a majority of any outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock prior to the authorization or creation of, or increase in the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series (or any security convertible into shares of any class or series) ranking senior to or on par with the Series A Preferred Stock in the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of QuadraMed or in the payment of dividends. This may hinder or delay our ability to borrow funds or issue preferred stock. Our Quarterly Operating Results Are Subject to Fluctuations, which Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Results and the Market Price of Our Common Stock. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and may fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be indicative of our future performance. Some of the factors causing these fluctuations include: • Variability in demand for products and services; • Introduction of product enhancements and new products by us and our competitors; • Timing and significance of announcements concerning present or prospective strategic alliances; • Discontinuation of, or reduction in, the products and services we offer; • Loss of customers due to consolidation in the healthcare industry; • Delays in product delivery requested by our customers; • Customer budget cycle fluctuation; • Investment in marketing, sales, software development and administrative personnel necessary to support anticipated operations; • Costs incurred for marketing and sales promotional activities; • Software defects and other product quality factors; • General economic conditions and their impact on the healthcare industry; • Cooperation from competitors on interfaces and implementation when a customer chooses a QuadraMed software application to use with various vendors; 15 Table of Contents • Delays in implementation due to product readiness, customer induced delays in training or installation and third-party interface development delays; • Final negotiated sales prices of systems; • Federal regulations (i.e., OIG, HIPAA, ICD-10) that can increase demand for new, updated systems; • Federal regulations that directly affect reimbursements received, and therefore the amount of money available for purchasing information systems; and • The fines and penalties a healthcare provider or system may incur due to fraudulent billing practices. In addition to the foregoing, a significant percentage of our total cost of revenue is attributable to the cost of third-party software royalties and licenses relating to third-party software embedded within our software applications. The cost of third-party software royalties and licenses, as a percentage of total cost of revenue, was approximately 21%, 20% and 13% for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Generally, royalty fees for third-party licenses will fluctuate based on revenue or the number of our customers and therefore will fluctuate on a quarter-to-quarter basis. Our Operating Expenses are Fixed, and We May Not Be Able to Reduce Them to Offset a Potential Future Revenue Decrease. Our operating expense levels are relatively fixed. Accordingly, if future revenues are below expectations, we would experience a disproportionate adverse affect on our net income and financial results. In the event of a revenue shortfall, we will likely be unable to, or may elect not to, reduce spending quickly enough to offset any such shortfall. As a result, it is possible that our future revenues or operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such a case, the price of our publicly traded securities may be adversely affected. We Could Experience a Significant Impact on Our Revenue if Our Customers Do Not Renew Maintenance Contracts. We derive a significant percentage of our revenue, including 45% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2005, from maintenance services. We provide maintenance services under maintenance contracts to many of our customers in connection with our healthcare information technology products. In general, these maintenance contracts renew on an annual basis. If a significant portion of these maintenance contracts were not renewed, our maintenance revenues would decline which could have a material adverse effect on our total revenue for the period(s) in which the maintenance contracts were discontinued. Future Sales of Our Common Stock in the Public Market, Warrants or Option Exercises and Sales Could Lower Our Stock Price. A substantial number of shares of our common stock are issuable upon the exercise of stock options and warrants and upon conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of such shares of common stock, or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock issued or issuable upon the exercise of stock options or warrants or upon the conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. If Our Series A Preferred Stock is Converted into Common Stock, these Converting Stockholders Will Have Significant Voting Power, and They Will Have the Ability to Exert Substantial Influence Over Matters Requiring Stockholder Approval. Each share of our Series A Preferred Stock is convertible into 8.0645 shares of our common stock, and the Series A Preferred Stockholders may convert at any time. If all of our Series A Preferred Stock is converted into common stock, the shares issued upon this conversion will total approximately 43.7% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, many of our Series A Preferred Stockholders own common stock. Therefore, 16 Table of Contents although these stockholders may not acquire majority control upon conversion of their Series A Preferred Stock, if these distinct stockholders were to act together, they will have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, the approval of mergers or other business combinations, and other significant corporate actions. This ability to influence our affairs might be disadvantageous to our other stockholders. Recently Adopted Financial Accounting Standards, Which Require the Expensing of All Share-Based Payments to Employees, May Materially and Adversely Affect our Results of Operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, which requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their grant-date fair values. In April 2005, the SEC extended the effective date of SFAS No. 123(R) requiring compliance by public companies for annual, rather than interim, periods that begin after June 15, 2005. Under SFAS No. 123(R), pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative. As permitted by the former FASB statement, SFAS No. 123, the Company has accounted for share-based payments to employees using the intrinsic value method under Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and as such, has generally recognized no compensation cost for employee stock options. Accordingly, we have adopted SFAS No. 123(R)’s fair value method of accounting for share based payments, effective January 1, 2006. The full impact of this statement will be dependent on future grants as well as existing grants of employee stock options and restricted stock. We believe that the impact on the Company’s results of operations may be significant, as we will be required to recognize the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. If the Company reduced its share-based payments to existing and new employees in order to avoid the negative impact on operating results, it could impair the Company’s ability to attract and retain quality personnel, which could weaken the Company’s competitive position in the marketplace. The Trading Price of Our Common Stock Has Been, and Is Expected to Continue to Be, Volatile. The American Stock Exchange and stock markets in general, have historically experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected companies unrelated to their individual operating performance. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile due to such factors as: • Variations in quarterly results of operations; • Announcements of new products or acquisitions by our competitors; • Government regulatory action; • Resolution of pending or unasserted litigation; • Developments or disputes with respect to proprietary rights; and • General trends in our industry and overall market conditions. Movements in prices of equity securities in general may also affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and Delaware Law Could Delay or Discourage a Takeover and Could Adversely Affect the Price of Our Common Stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue an additional one million shares of preferred stock over and above the four million shares already issued, and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by holders of our common stock. If additional preferred stock is issued, the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of our preferred stock. The issuance of 17 Table of Contents preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of the Company that could have been at a premium price to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has issued four million shares of such preferred stock as Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have certain voting and board appointment rights. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could discourage potential takeover attempts and make stockholders’ attempts to change management difficult. Our Board of Directors has the authority to impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for our stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. In addition, our Certificate of Incorporation provides that directors may be removed only by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote. Any vacancy on our Board of Directors may be filled only by a vote of the majority of directors then in office. Further, our Certificate of Incorporation provides that the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote, voting together as a single class, subject to certain exceptions, is required for certain business combination transactions. These provisions, and certain other provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, could have the effect of delaying or preventing (i) a tender offer for our common stock or other changes of control of the Company that could be at a premium price or (ii) changes in our management. In addition, certain provisions of Delaware law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of the Company. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, for example, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met. We Do Not Expect to Pay Cash Dividends on Common Stock in the Foreseeable Future. We have not declared or paid cash or other dividends on our common stock and do not expect to pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends is also restricted by the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock which require us to pay full cumulative dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock before making any dividend payment on our common stock. Generally, the Series A Preferred Stock is entitled to quarterly dividends of $0.34 (5.5% per annum) per share. However, as provided in the Certificate of Designation relating to the Series A Preferred Stock, because a registration statement for the Series A Preferred Stock was not declared effective by the SEC on or before June 15, 2005, the dividend rate for such stock increased to $0.40625 per quarter (6.5% per annum) commencing on June 16, 2005, and such rate will apply until the date such registration statement is declared effective. Upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock into shares of common stock, the Series A Preferred stockholders have the right to receive, when declared by our Board of Directors, dividends equal to the total previously unpaid dividends payable from the effective date of conversion through June 1, 2007 at a rate of $1.375 per share per annum or 5.5% per annum, discounted to present value at a rate of 5.5% per annum, payable in cash or common shares, or any combination thereof at our option. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for use in the operation of our business and to fund future growth. Any future cash dividends will depend upon our results of operations, financial conditions, cash requirements, the availability of a surplus and other factors. We May Be Liable for Violating the Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties, which Could Lead Us to Incur Substantial Litigation Expenses, and, If There Were an Adverse Judgment, Liability for Any Infringement. We do not believe that the intellectual property important to the operation of our business, whether owned by us or licensed to us by a third party, infringes or violates the intellectual property rights of any other party. However, intellectual property litigation is increasingly common in the software industry. The risk of an infringement claim against us may increase over time as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products overlaps. Third parties have, in the past, asserted infringement claims and could assert infringement claims against us in the future. Regardless of the merits, we could incur substantial litigation expenses in defending any such asserted claim. In the event of an unfavorable ruling on any such claim, a license or similar agreement may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. Infringement may also 18 Table of Contents result in significant monetary liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in the defense of these or similar claims. We have taken steps to contractually limit our liability for the use of intellectual property licensed to us by third parties. However, there can be no guarantee that we have adequate protection. Our Inability to Protect Our Intellectual Property Could Lead to Unauthorized Use of Our Products, which Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. In 2001, we filed our first patent application covering our developed technology, the Affinity CPOE software application. This application lapsed, and we have no patents. Measures taken by us to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate, and our competitors could independently develop products and services that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products and services. Any infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary software and databases could put us at a competitive disadvantage in a highly competitive market and could cause us to lose revenues, incur substantial litigation expense and divert management’s attention from other operations. We are Dependent Upon Third-Party Software Licenses in Connection with the Sale of Our Software. If These Licenses Are Not Renewed or Are Terminated, We May Not Be Able to Continue to Use the Related Technology on Commercially Reasonable Terms or at All. We depend on licenses from a number of third-party vendors for certain technology, including the computer hardware, operating systems, database management systems, programming language, and runtime environment, upon which we develop and operate our products. We are materially reliant upon licenses with the following third-party vendors: InterSystems Corporation, Document Storage Systems, Inc., Megas Corporation, Unicor Medical, Oracle, Microsoft, Quovadx, the American Medical Association and the American Hospital Association. Most of these licenses expire within three to five years. Such licenses can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the license terms and fail to cure the breach within a specified time period. If such licenses are terminated, we may not be able to continue using the technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments until equivalent technology is obtained, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. However, as all application software companies, including QuadraMed and our competitors, are reliant on licensed technology and third-party components, we believe our reliance on such technology and licenses places us at no competitive disadvantage. At present, there is no equivalent technology for the InterSystems Corporation technology which is an integral component of our Affinity product line. The Company has entered into several agreements with InterSystems Corporation regarding the licensed technology relating to our Affinity product line. However, if InterSystems Corporation ceased to offer this technology and no other vendor provided the technology, we would be required to migrate our Affinity products to a new database platform or redesign our products to work with new software tools. This could be very costly and difficult to achieve and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we would successfully migrate our Affinity products to a new platform. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive and competitors may obtain the same or similar technology. In addition, if vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology, we may not be able to modify or adapt our products. 3M Has Declined to Renew a License Agreement for a Software Interface that Relates to Certain of Our Quantim Products. Our Inability to Use This Interface May Have a Negative Impact on Sales of the Affected Products. 3M Corporation’s (“3M”) proprietary CGS APR-DRG grouper for healthcare facilities provides results on risk and illness severity (in addition to other indicators) based on a coded healthcare record and is used for 19 Table of Contents healthcare reimbursement and reporting. 3M is the only vendor which provides such a technology. 3M also provides a reduced-functionality grouper product, but few healthcare facilities and vendors use it. Our Quantim Coding and Abstracting products, as well as other vendors’ decision support products, contain the CGS APR-DRG grouper, and 3M’s interface between its grouper and such products is important to many of our Quantim clients. 3M grants only one-year licenses for its CGS APR-DRG grouper interface, allowing 3M to change pricing, functionality and other terms and conditions of the license annually. In late 2005, 3M declined to renew QuadraMed’s and other coding vendors’ licenses for 3M’s CGS APR-DRG grouper interface, offering instead an interface for their less-used, reduced functionality grouper. If we are unable to continue use of the CGS APR-DRG grouper interface, our clients which use our Quantim Coding and Abstracting products may find it more difficult to obtain this grouper information. Thus, if we are unable to renew this license, or produce an alternative or replacement solution for this interface, there may be an adverse impact on the sales of our Quantim Coding and Abstracting products and on the renewal of existing Quantim contracts by our current clients. We Face Product Development Risks Associated with Rapid Technological Changes. The healthcare software market is highly fragmented and characterized by ongoing technological developments, evolving industry standards and rapid changes in customer requirements. Our success depends on our ability to timely and effectively: • Offer a broad range of software products; • Enhance existing products and expand product offerings; • Respond promptly to new customer requirements and industry standards; • Remain compatible with popular operating systems and develop products that are compatible with new or otherwise emerging operating systems; and • Develop new interfaces with competing HIS vendors to fully integrate our Quantim product suite in order to maximize features and functionality of the new products. Our performance depends in large part upon our ability to provide the increasing functionality required by our customers through the timely development and successful introduction of new products and enhancements to our existing suite of products. We may not successfully, or in a timely manner, develop, acquire, integrate, introduce or market new products or product enhancements. Product enhancements or new products developed by us also may not meet the requirements of hospitals or other healthcare providers and payers or achieve or sustain market acceptance. Our failure to either estimate accurately the resources and related expenses required for a project, or to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the project plan upon which a contract was based, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our failure to meet a customer’s expectations in the performance of our services could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract new business. A Significant Amount of Our Assets Comprise Goodwill, Customer Lists and Other Intangible Items Subject to Impairment and Adjustment That Could Possibly Negatively Impact Our Results of Operations and Stockholders’ Equity. A significant amount of our assets comprise intangible assets, such as the value of the installed customer base, core technology, capitalized software, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets acquired through our acquisitions, such as trademarks. Pursuant to SFAS No. 142, we must test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least annually and adjust them when impaired to the appropriate net realizable value. We performed an impairment test on the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangibles as of January 1, 2006 and 2005. We determined that there was no impairment as of these dates. In addition, our internally developed software has been 20 Table of Contents capitalized assuming our earnings from these product developments exceeds the costs incurred to develop them. If it is determined that these assets have been impaired and our future operating results will not support the existing carrying value of our intangible assets, we will be required to adjust the carrying value of such assets to net realizable value. We, however, cannot predict that all of our intangible assets will continue to remain unimpaired. Our future operating results and stockholders’ equity could possibly decrease with any future impairment and write-down of goodwill, customer lists, or other such intangibles. The Nature of Our Products Makes Us Particularly Vulnerable to Undetected Errors or Bugs that Could Reduce Revenues, Market Share or Demand for Our Products and Services. Products such as those we offer may contain errors or failures, especially when initially introduced or when new versions are released. Although we conduct extensive testing on our products, software errors have been discovered in certain enhancements and products after their introduction. Despite such testing by us and by our current and potential customers, products under development, enhancements or shipped products may contain errors or performance failures, resulting in, among other things: • Loss of customers and revenue; • Delay in market acceptance; • Diversion of resources; • Damage to our reputation; or • Increased service and warranty costs. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Our Products Fail to Accurately Assess, Process or Collect Healthcare Claims or Administer Managed Care Contracts, We Could Be Subject to Costly Litigation and Be Forced to Make Costly Changes to Our Products. Some of our products and services are used in the payment, collection, coding and billing of healthcare claims and the administration of managed care contracts. If our employees or products fail to accurately assess, process, or collect these claims, customers could file claims against us. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover such claims. A successful claim that is in excess of, or is not covered by, insurance coverage could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even a claim without merit could result in significant legal defense costs and could consume management time and resources. In addition, claims could increase our premiums such that appropriate insurance could not be found at commercially reasonable rates. Furthermore, if we were found liable, we may have to significantly alter one or more of our products, possibly resulting in additional unanticipated software development expenses. Changes in Procurement Practices of Hospitals Have and May Continue to Have a Negative Impact on Our Revenues. A substantial portion of our revenues has been and is expected to continue to be derived from sales of software products and services to hospitals. Hospitals are slow to make changes and generally favor their existing vendor when considering an upgrade in their systems. Consolidation in the healthcare industry, particularly in the hospital and managed care markets, could decrease the number of existing or potential purchasers of products and services and could adversely affect our business. In addition, the decision to purchase our products often involves a committee approval. Consequently, it is difficult for us to predict the timing or outcome of the buying 21 Table of Contents decisions of our customers or potential customers. In addition, many healthcare providers are consolidating to create integrated delivery networks with greater regional market power. These emerging systems could have greater bargaining power, which may lead to decreases in prices for our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Department of Veterans Affairs Has Awarded a Contract to Us. It is Unknown Whether Our Overall Revenues Will Increase or Not Related to This Award. The Department of Veterans Affairs (“VA”) has awarded contract VA Blanket Purchase Agreement No. 101-049AH-005 (the “BPA”) to the Company, as disclosed in the Company’s press release dated April 27, 2005. The BPA is a five year single source contract covering approximately 128 VA facilities. Under the BPA, these VA facilities are to be contracted to use our products and services. Previously, both we and other vendors provided HIM software to these VA facilities. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $12.1 million in annual revenue from providing VA facilities with software, and our HIM software constitutes approximately 90% of the products and services we provide to these facilities. The BPA contains additional HIM software discounts, but it increases the number of VA facilities using our products, so the overall financial impact of the BPA cannot be known. Additionally, the VA is directing the individual facilities to order their requirements for this HIM software under the BPA, but each VA facility orders the HIM software individually, and there can be no guarantee that a VA facility will order its HIM software and/or services from us. For these reasons there can be no assurances as to the material financial impact, if any, of the BPA; however, the award of the BPA allows many of the Company’s licenses and services to continue without interruption. Changes in the Healthcare Financing and Reimbursement System Could Adversely Affect the Amount of and Manner in which Our Customers Purchase Our Products And Services. Changes in current healthcare financing and reimbursement systems (e.g., Medicaid) could result in unplanned product enhancements, delays, or cancellations of product orders or shipments, or reduce the need for certain systems. We could also have the endorsement of products by hospital associations or other customers revoked. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business. Alternatively, the federal government recently mandated that all but small healthcare providers submit claims to Medicare in electronic format, which may positively affect sales of our systems and products. Healthcare Regulations and Reform Proposals Could Adversely Affect Demand for Our Products. The healthcare industry in the United States is subject to changing political, economic, and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement practices and operations of healthcare organizations. The traditional hospital delivery system is evolving as more hospital services are being provided by niche, free standing practices and outpatient providers. The commercial value and appeal of our products may be adversely affected if the current healthcare financing and reimbursement systems were to change. During the past several years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing levels of governmental regulation. Proposals to reform the healthcare system have been and are being considered by the United States Congress. These proposals, if enacted, could adversely affect the commercial value and appeal of our products or change the operating environment of our customers in ways that cannot be predicted. Healthcare organizations may react to these proposals by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our products and services. In addition, the regulations promulgated under HIPAA could lead healthcare organizations to curtail or defer investments in non-HIPAA related features in the next several years. The Variability and Length of Our Sales Cycle for Our Products May Exacerbate the Unpredictability and Volatility of Our Operating Results. We cannot accurately forecast the timing of customer purchases due to the complex procurement decision processes of most healthcare providers and payers. How and when to implement, replace, expand or substantially modify an information system are major decisions for hospitals, and such decisions require significant capital 22 Table of Contents expenditures by them. As a result, we typically experience sales cycles that extend over several quarters. In particular, our Affinity enterprise software has a higher average selling price and longer sales cycle than many of our other products. As a result, we have only a limited ability to forecast the timing and size of specific sales, making the prediction of quarterly financial performance more difficult. We Operate in a Highly Competitive Market. Competition for our products and services is intense and is expected to increase. Increased competition could result in reductions in our prices, gross margins and market share and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete with other providers of healthcare information software and services, as well as healthcare consulting firms. Some competitors have formed business alliances with other competitors that may affect our ability to work with some potential customers. In addition, if some of our competitors merge, a stronger competitor may emerge. Some principal competitors include: • In the market for enterprise healthcare information systems: McKesson Corporation, Inc., Shared Medical Systems, Inc., a division of Siemens, MediTech Corporation, Eclipsys Corporation and Cerner; • In the market for electronic document management products: McKesson Corporation, SoftMed Corporation Inc., FileNet, Streamlined Health, MedPlus, and Eclipsys Corporation; • In the market for MPI products and services: Initiate Systems, Inc., McKesson Corporation, Shared Medical Systems, Inc., a division of Siemens, and Medibase; • In the market for decision support products: Eclipsys Corporation, Healthcare Microsystems, Inc., a division of Health Management Systems Inc., McKesson Corporation, Shared Medical Systems, Inc., a division of Siemens, and MediQual Systems, Inc., a division of Cardinal Health, Inc.; • In the market for coding, compliance, data, and record management products in the Health Information Management Software Division: 3M Corporation, SoftMed Corporation, Inc., MetaHealth, Eclipsys Corporation and HSS, Inc.; Prospective customers may evaluate our products’ capabilities against the merits of their existing information systems and expertise and decide to stay with their incumbent vendor because of the cost associated with conversion. In addition, existing and prospective customers may be reluctant to buy from us because of the losses we have incurred in recent years. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources, and market recognition than we have. These competitors may be in a position to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Our competitors also have, or may develop or acquire, substantial installed customer bases in the healthcare industry. As a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, changes in customer requirements and changes in the political, economic or regulatory environment in the healthcare industry. As a result of the current emphasis on patient safety, the selection of a new hospital information system is frequently based on the strength of the vendor’s clinical application and many of our competitors have invested considerably more in clinical development than we have. Major software information systems companies, including those specializing in the healthcare industry, that do not presently offer competing products may enter our markets. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and such competitive pressures could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 23 Table of Contents We Have Encountered Significant Challenges Integrating Acquired Businesses, and Future Transactions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Operations and Financial Condition. Throughout our history, we have made many acquisitions and have encountered significant challenges integrating the acquired businesses into our operations. In recent years, we have made significant progress toward that integration. However, we continue to support several different technology platforms. In the future, we plan to make investments in or acquire additional complementary businesses, products, services or technologies. These investments and acquisitions will create new integration challenges. Some of the challenges we have encountered, and may encounter with acquisitions in the future, in integrating acquired businesses include: • Interruption, disruption or delay of our ongoing business; • Distraction of management’s attention from other matters; • Additional operational and administrative expenses; • Difficulty managing geographically dispersed operations; • Failure of acquired businesses to achieve expected results, resulting in our failure to realize anticipated benefits; • Write-down or reclassification of acquired assets; • Failure to retain key acquired personnel and difficulty and expense of training those retained; • Increases in compensation and stock compensation expenses resulting from newly hired employees; • Assumption of liabilities and potential for disputes with the sellers of acquired businesses; • Customer dissatisfaction or performance problems related to acquired businesses; • Failure to maintain good relations with customers or suppliers; • Exposure to the risks of entering markets in which we have no prior direct experience and to risks associated with market acceptance of acquired products and technologies; and • Platform and technical issues related to integrating systems from various acquired companies. All of these factors have had an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in the past, and could have an adverse effect in the future. No Mirror Processing Site for Our Customer Data Processing Facilities Exists; Our Business, Financial Condition, and Results of Operations Could Be Adversely Affected if These Facilities Were Subject to a Closure from a Catastrophic Event or Otherwise. We currently process substantially all of our customer data at several of our facilities across the United States. Although we back up our data nightly and have safeguards for emergencies, such as power interruption or breakdown in temperature controls, we have no mirror processing site to which processing could be transferred in the case of a catastrophic event at any of these facilities. If a major catastrophic event occurs at these facilities possibly leading to an interruption of data processing, or any other interruption or closure, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We May Be Required to Make Substantial Changes to Our Products if They Become Subject to FDA Regulation, which Could Require a Significant Capital Investment. Computer products used or intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of diseases or other conditions or that affect the structure or function of the body are subject to regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. At present, none of our software products are so regulated. In the future, the FDA could determine that some of our products, because of their predictive aspects, are clinical decision tools and subject them to regulation. Compliance with FDA regulations could be burdensome, time consuming, and expensive. Other new laws and regulations affecting healthcare software development and marketing also could be enacted in the future. If so, it is possible that our costs and the length of time for product development and marketing could increase and that other unforeseeable consequences could arise. 24 Table of Contents Governmental Regulation of the Confidentiality of Patient Health Information Could Result in Our Customers Being Unable to Use Our Products Without Significant Modification, which Could Require Significant Capital Expenditures. There is substantial state and federal regulation of the confidentiality of patient health information and the circumstances under which such information may be used by, disclosed to, or processed by us as a consequence of our contacts with various health plans and healthcare providers. Although compliance with these laws and regulations is presently the principal responsibility of the health plan, hospital, physician or other healthcare provider, regulations governing patient confidentiality rights are dynamic and rapidly evolving. As such, laws and regulations could be modified so that they could directly apply to us. Also, changes to the laws and regulations that would require us to change our systems and our methods may be made in the future, which could require significant expenditure of capital and decrease future business prospects. Also, additional federal and state legislation governing the dissemination of patient health information may be proposed and adopted, which may also significantly affect our business. Finally, certain existing laws and regulations require healthcare entities to contractually pass on their obligations to other entities with which they do business; as such, we are indirectly impacted by various additional laws and regulations. HIPAA is a federal law that affects the use, disclosure, transmission and storage of individually identifiable health information referred to as “protected health information.” As directed by HIPAA, the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”) must promulgate standards or rules for certain electronic health transactions, code sets, data security, unique identification numbers, and privacy of protected health information. DHHS has issued some of these rules in final form, while others remain in development. In general, under these rules, we function as a “business associate” to some of our customers (who are considered to be “covered entities” under HIPAA). The three rules relevant to us and our customers—the Transactions Rule, the Privacy Rule, and the Security Rule—are discussed below. It is important to note that DHHS could, at any time in the future, modify any existing final rule in a manner that could require us to change our systems or operations. First, DHHS has published a final HIPAA rule governing transactions and code set standards (“Transactions Rule”). The Transactions Rule had a compliance date of October 16, 2003. To the extent necessary to help our covered entity customers conduct transactions, we believe that our current products and services meet the requirements of the Transactions Rule. Nevertheless, as noted above, DHHS may make further revisions to the Transactions Rule, which could require us to change our products and systems to enable our covered entity customers to meet such obligations. Second, DHHS has published a final HIPAA privacy rule (“Privacy Rule”) which had a compliance date of April 14, 2003. The Privacy Rule is complex and far reaching. Similar to the Transactions Rule, as noted above, the Privacy Rule directly applies to covered entities. Also, covered entities are, in most instances, required to execute a contract with any business associate that performs certain services on the covered entity’s behalf involving the exchange or creation of protected health information. Our hospital and health plan customers are covered entities, and to the extent that we are required by our customer contracts to ensure that we comply with various aspects of the Privacy Rule, we believe that we meet the requirements of the Privacy Rule. The Privacy Rule and other similar state healthcare privacy regulations could materially restrict the ability of healthcare providers and health plans to disclose protected health information from patient records using our products and services, or it could require us to make additional capital expenditures to be in compliance. Accordingly, the Privacy Rule and state privacy laws may significantly impact our products’ use in the healthcare delivery system and, therefore, decrease our revenue, increase working capital requirements and decrease future business prospects. Third, DHHS has published the final HIPAA security rule (“Security Rule”) with a compliance date of April 20, 2005. The Security Rule applies to the use, disclosure, transmission, storage and destruction of electronic protected health information by covered entities. The Security Rule requires that covered entities must implement administrative, technical and physical security measures to safeguard electronic protected health information. Also, as with the Privacy Rule, under the Security Rule, covered entities are required to 25 Table of Contents contractually bind their business associates to certain aspects of the Security Rule. As such, where we function as a business associate to a customer that is a covered entity, we are required to enter into a business associate contract with that customer. Implementing such measures may require us to expend substantial capital due to required product, service, and procedure changes. We have completed modifications to our business practices and software offerings so that we are able to assist our customers in complying with the Transactions Rule, Privacy Rule and Security Rule. However, DHHS continues to publish change notices to the existing rules and propose new rules. There is no certainty that we will be able to respond to all such rules in a timely manner and our inability to do so could adversely affect our business. Government Regulation to Adopt and Implement ICD-10-CM and ICD-10-PCS Medical Code Set Standards Could Require Substantial Modification of our Coding and Compliance Software. The American Health Information Management Association and other prominent healthcare industry advocacy groups are calling on DHHS and the healthcare industry to take action to adopt and implement ICD-10-CM and ICD-10-PCS code sets, rules, and guidelines as a replacement for current ICD-9-CM guidelines used in our software products. Adoption of these new code sets would require us to change our systems and our methods which could require a significant expenditure of software development capital and decrease future business prospects for our current product line. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no material, unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports. 