ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors mentioned elsewhere in this Form 10-K or previously disclosed in our SEC filings, including our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, the factors disclosed below, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from historical performance. The Company undertakes no obligation to revise the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K to reflect events after the date of this Form 10-K. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES, ANTICIPATE INCURRING LOSSES FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE AND MAY NEVER BECOME PROFITABLE. For the fiscal years ended August 31, 2006 and 2005, we had operating losses of approximately $1,639,000 and $2,502,000, respectively. The report of our auditors with respect to their examination of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006 contains an explanatory paragraph relating to the preparation of our financial statements on a "going concern" basis, and states that we have suffered losses from operations and have a retained deficit that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. At August 31, 2006 and 2005, we had accumulated deficits of approximately $14,788,000 and $13,149,000, respectively. While our management is addressing conditions which have left substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, there is no certainty that we will be successful in implementing any of the plans of management to restore us to profitability or to otherwise ensure that we will be able to continue as a going concern. SHAREHOLDERS MAY SUFFER DILUTION FROM THE EXERCISE OF EXISTING OPTIONS, WARRANTS AND CONVERSION RIGHTS. Our common stock may become diluted if warrants and options to purchase our common stock are exercised or additional shares are issued upon conversion pursuant to conversion rights by our Senior Lender, Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. ("Laurus"). The number of shares of our common stock that can currently be purchased upon exercise of warrants is 10,000, upon exercise of options is 831,000 (650,000 of these options are those granted to Laurus) and pursuant to conversion rights is 2,463,934. Under the terms of our Agreements with Laurus, the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of options or pursuant to conversion rights held by Laurus cannot exceed the number of shares that, when combined with all other shares of common stock and securities then owned by Laurus, would result in Laurus owning more than 4.99% of our outstanding common stock at any given point of time (or 19.99% in the event that such limitation is suspended upon the occurrence of an "event of default" under any of the transaction agreements between the Company and Laurus). These shares, as well as the eligibility for additional restricted shares to be sold in the future, either pursuant to future registrations under the Securities Act, or an exemption such as Rule 144 under the Securities Act, may have a dilutive effect on the market price of our common stock. The terms upon which we will be able to obtain additional equity capital could also be adversely affected. THE INABILITY TO OBTAIN NECESSARY ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS COULD DELAY US FROM EXECUTING OUR BUSINESS PLAN OR PREVENT US FROM DOING SO ENTIRELY. We expect to need additional capital in the future to fund our operations, finance investments in equipment and corporate infrastructure, expand our domestic and global sub-supplier network, increase the range of services we offer and respond to competitive pressures and perceived opportunities. Cash flow from operations and cash on hand may not be sufficient to cover our operating expenses and capital investment needs. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. A failure to obtain additional funding could prevent us from making expenditures that are needed to allow us to grow or maintain our operations. WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT OUTSTANDING INDEBTEDNESS AND DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS. 8 In order to finance our operations we have incurred indebtedness. Our credit facility with Laurus is secured by substantially all of our assets. In addition to certain limited financial covenants, our credit facility restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to pledge our assets. As of August 31, 2006, we are in compliance with all of the terms of our credit facility with Laurus. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the terms of this credit facility in the future. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional information on our outstanding indebtedness. Our business is subject to all of the risks associated with substantial leverage, including the risk that available cash may not be adequate to make required payments. Our ability to satisfy outstanding debt obligations from cash flow will be dependent upon our future performance and will be subject to financial, business and other factors, many of which will be beyond our control. In the event that we do not have sufficient cash resources to satisfy our repayment obligations, we would be in default, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that we are required to use cash resources to satisfy interest payments to the holders of outstanding debt obligations, we will have fewer resources available for other purposes. There is no assurance that we will not increase our leverage in the future, whether as a result of operational or financial performance, acquisition or otherwise. AN INCREASE IN INTEREST RATES WOULD INCREASE THE COST OF SERVICING OUR DEBT AND COULD REDUCE OUR PROFITABILITY. Borrowings under our credit facility with Laurus bear or will bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, whether due to an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, our debt service obligations for our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount of borrowings remained the same, and our net income could be materially adversely affected. As of August 31, 2006, our total outstanding debt of approximately $13.1 million included interest rate sensitive debt of approximately $12.4 million, which had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 12.4% per annum. OUR REVENUE WOULD DECLINE SIGNIFICANTLY IF WE LOSE ONE OR MORE OF OUR MOST SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS WHICH COULD HAVE A SIGNIFICANT ADVERSE IMPACT ON US. A significant portion of our revenues are concentrated among a few large customers. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, our largest customer represented approximately $6.0 million or 25% of total revenue, while the next three largest customers represented approximately $10.4 million or 43% of total revenue. Our three largest customers represented 61% and 84% of total revenue for each of the fiscal years ended 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss of any of these customers could have a significant adverse impact on us. THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL REMAIN LISTED ON AN ACTIVE TRADING MARKET. Although our common stock is quoted on the American Stock Exchange ("Amex"), there can be no assurance that we will, in the future, be able to meet all the requirements for continued quotation thereon. Amex approved a plan submitted by us to regain compliance with our continued listing requirements by August 9, 2007. Although we believe we can achieve our plan, there can be no assurance that we can successfully do so. In the absence of an active trading market or if our common stock cannot be traded on the Amex, our common stock could instead be traded on the Electronic Bulletin Board or on the Pink Sheets. In such event, the liquidity and stock price in the secondary market may be adversely affected. In addition, in the event our common stock was delisted, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, further limiting the liquidity of our common stock. OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE. Our stock price, like that of other small cap companies, is subject to significant volatility because of factors such as quarterly variations in our operating results, changes in revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community and speculation in the press or investment community. In addition, our stock price is affected by unfavorable global economic and market conditions. If such conditions deteriorate, our stock price could decline. WE DEPEND ON OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT, THE LOSS OF WHOM WOULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON US. 9 We presently are dependent upon the executive abilities of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Kenneth K. Rieth, our Chief Financial Officer, Peter C. Canepa, and our other executive officers. Our business and operations to date chiefly have been implemented under the direction of these individuals, who presently are, and in the future will be, responsible for the implementation of our anticipated plans and programs. The loss or unavailability of the services of one or more of our principal executives would have an adverse effect on us. Given our present financial condition, we may encounter difficulty in our ability to recruit and ultimately hire any replacement or additional executive officers having similar background, experience and qualifications as those of our current executive officers. THE MARKETS SERVED BY US ARE HIGHLY CYCLICAL AND OUR BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED AS A RESULT OF GENERAL ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS. We are subject to the effects of general global economic and market conditions. The automotive industry is highly cyclical and dependent on consumer spending. Economic factors adversely affecting automotive production and consumer spending could adversely impact our business. If economic and market conditions deteriorate, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. An economic downturn may also impact substantially leveraged companies, such as ourselves, more than similarly situated companies with less leverage. LABOR INTERRUPTIONS COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS. Within the automotive supply industry substantially all of the hourly employees of the OEMs and many Tier I suppliers are represented by labor unions, and work pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. The failure of any of our significant customers to reach agreement with a labor union on a timely basis, resulting in either a work stoppage or strike, could have an adverse impact on our business. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED AS A RESULT OF WAR OR ACTS OF TERRORISM. Terrorist acts or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to our employees, facilities, customers and partners, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Such conflicts may also cause damage or disruption to transportation and communication systems and to our ability to manage logistics in such an environment, including receipt of materials and distribution of products. WE ARE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION, WHICH COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON US. We are subject to the requirements of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Although we have made and will continue to make expenditures to comply with environmental requirements, these requirements are constantly evolving, and it is impossible to predict whether compliance with these laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on us in the future. If a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our property or from any of our disposals at offsite disposal locations, or if contamination is discovered at any or our current or former properties, we may be held liable, and the amount of such liability could be material. 10 