Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services Part IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signature page 2 PART I Item 1. Business THE COMPANY General Enterprise Bancorp, Inc. (the “company”) is a Massachusetts corporation, which operates as the parent holding company of Enterprise Bank and Trust Company (the “bank”). Substantially all of the company’s operations are conducted through the bank. The bank, a Massachusetts trust company, has three wholly owned subsidiaries, Enterprise Insurance Services, LLC, Enterprise Investment Services, LLC, and Enterprise Security Corporation, organized for the purposes of engaging in insurance sales activities, offering non-deposit investment products and services and investing in equity securities on its own behalf and not as a broker, respectively. Through the bank and its subsidiaries, the company offers a range of commercial and consumer loan and deposit products, investment advisory services, trust and insurance services. The services offered through the bank and subsidiaries are managed as one strategic unit and represent the company’s only reportable operating segment. The company’s headquarters are located at 222 Merrimack Street in Lowell, Massachusetts. The company’s primary market area is the Merrimack Valley and North Central regions of Massachusetts and South Central New Hampshire. The company has fourteen full service branch banking offices located in the Massachusetts cities and towns of Andover, Billerica, Chelmsford, Dracut, Fitchburg, Leominster, Lowell, Tewksbury, and Westford; and in Salem, New Hampshire which serve those cities and towns as well as the surrounding communities. The company recently received regulatory approval to establish a new branch in the city of Methuen, Massachusetts, and expects to open the facility for business in late 2007. The company endeavors to expand market share in existing markets and to pursue strategic growth through expansion into neighboring markets. Management believes the company’s business model, strong service culture, skilled management team and brand name create opportunities for the company to be the leading provider of commercial banking and investment management services in its growing market area. Management continually strives to differentiate the company from competitors by providing highly competitive commercial banking, investment, and insurance products delivered through prompt, responsive and personal service based on management’s familiarity and understanding of the banking and other financial service needs of its customers. Management seeks to hire, develop and retain highly motivated top professionals who understand the communities in which the bank operates as well as the local banking environment. Lending General The company specializes in lending to business entities, non-profit organizations, professionals and individuals. The company’s primary lending focus is on the development of high quality commercial lending relationships achieved through active business development efforts, strong community involvement and focused marketing strategies. Loans made by the company to businesses include commercial mortgage loans, construction loans, secured and unsecured commercial loans and lines, and standby letters of credit. The company also originates equipment lease financing for businesses. Loans made to individuals include residential mortgage loans, home equity loans, residential construction loans, secured and unsecured personal loans and lines of credit and mortgage loans on investment and vacation properties. 3 The company employs a seasoned commercial lending staff, with commercial lenders supporting each branch location. The company has an internal loan review function that assesses the compliance of loan originations with the company’s internal policies and underwriting guidelines and monitors the ongoing quality of the loan portfolio. The company also contracts with an external loan review company to review loans in the loan portfolio on a pre-determined schedule, based on the type, size, rating, and overall risk of the loan. In addition, a management loan review committee, consisting of senior lending officers and loan review personnel, is responsible for setting loan policy and procedures, as well as reviewing loans on the company’s internal “watch asset list” and classified loan report. A loan committee, consisting of seven outside members of the board of directors, and two executive officers who are also members of the board of directors, reviews current portfolio statistics, new credits, construction loan reviews, loan delinquencies, allowance for loan losses and watched assets, as well as current market conditions and issues relating to the construction and real estate development industry. The company has also established an internal credit review committee, consisting of senior lending officers and loan review personnel. The committee meets on an as needed basis to review loan requests related to borrowing relationships of certain levels, as well as other borrower relationships recommended for discussion by committee members. The company’s executive committee of the board of directors also approves loan relationships exceeding certain prescribed limits. At December 31, 2006, the bank’s statutory lending limit, based on 20% of capital, to any individual borrower was approximately $17.4 million, subject to certain exceptions provided under applicable law. Commercial Real Estate, Commercial and Construction Loans Commercial real estate loans include loans secured by commercial and industrial properties, apartment buildings, office and mixed-use facilities, strip shopping malls, or other commercial property. Commercial real estate loans generally have repayment periods of approximately fifteen to twenty years. Variable interest rate loans have a variety of adjustment terms and indices, and are generally fixed for the first one to five years before periodic rate adjustment begins. Commercial and industrial loans include seasonal revolving lines of credit, working capital loans, equipment financing (including equipment leases), loans partially guaranteed by the Small Business Administration (SBA), and loans under various programs issued in conjunction with the Massachusetts Development and Finance Agency and other agencies, as well as unsecured loans and lines to financially strong borrowers. These commercial loans may be secured in whole or in part by real estate unrelated to the principal purpose of the loan or secured by inventories, equipment, or receivables, and are generally guaranteed by the principals of the borrower. Variable rate loans in this portfolio have interest rates that are periodically adjusted, generally with fixed initial periods of one to three years. Commercial and industrial loans have average repayment periods of one to seven years. Commercial construction loans include the development of residential housing and condominium projects, the development of commercial and industrial use property and loans for the purchase and improvement of raw land. The company’s construction lenders work to cultivate long-term relationships with established developers. The company limits the amount of financing provided to any single developer for the construction of properties built on a speculation basis. Funds for construction projects are disbursed as pre-specified stages of construction are completed. Regular site inspections are performed, either by experienced construction lenders on staff or by independent outside inspection companies, at each construction phase, prior to advancing additional funds. Commercial construction loans generally have terms of one to three years. 4 From time to time the company participates in the financing of certain large commercial projects with other banks. In some cases the company may act as the lead lender, originating and servicing the loans, but participating out a portion of the funding to other banks. In other cases the company may participate in loans originated by other institutions. In each case the participating bank funds a percentage of the loan commitment and takes on the related risk. The company performs an independent credit analysis of each commitment prior to participation in the loan. Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the company to guarantee the performance by a customer to a third party. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loan facilities to customers. If the letter of credit is drawn upon the company creates a loan for the customer, generally a commercial loan, with the same criteria associated with similar commercial loans. Residential Loans The company originates conventional mortgage loans on one-to-four family residential properties. These properties may serve as the borrower’s primary residence, second homes or investment properties. Loan to value limits vary up to 97%, with mortgage insurance coverage required for loan-to-value ratios greater than 80% based on program parameters. In addition the company provides financing for the construction of owner occupied residences. Residential mortgage loans made by the company have terms of up to 30 years at either fixed or adjustable rates of interest. Fixed and adjustable rate residential mortgage loans are generally originated using underwriting standards and standard documentation allowing their sale in the secondary market. Depending on the current interest rate environment, management projections of future interest rates and the overall asset-liability management program of the company, management may elect to sell or hold residential loan production for the company’s portfolio. The company generally does not pool mortgage loans for sale, but instead sells the loans on an individual basis. The company may retain or sell the servicing when selling the loans. All loans sold are currently sold without recourse. Home Equity Loans and Lines of Credit Home equity loans are originated for the company’s portfolio for one-to-four family residential properties with maximum original loan to values ratios generally up to 80% of the assessed or appraised value of the property securing the loan. Home equity loan payments consist of monthly principal and interest based on amortizations ranging from three to fifteen years and are generally offered at fixed rates of interest. Home equity lines are originated for the company’s portfolio for one-to-four family residential properties with maximum original loan to value ratios generally up to 80% of the assessed or appraised value of the property securing the loan. Home equity lines generally have interest rates that adjust monthly based on changes in the Prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal. Some home equity lines may be fixed for a period of time and then adjusted monthly thereafter. The payment schedule for home equity lines for the first ten years of the loans are interest only payments. At the end of ten years the line is frozen to future advances and principal plus interest payments are collected over a fifteen-year amortization schedule. Consumer Loans Consumer loans primarily consist of secured or unsecured personal loans and overdraft protection lines on checking accounts extended to individual customers. 5 Risk Elements and Allowance for Loan Losses Information regarding the company’s risk elements and allowance for loan losses is contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, under the headings “Risk Elements/Asset Quality” and “Allowance for Loan Losses”, contained in the section “Financial Condition”, and under the heading “Allowance for Loan Losses”, which is contained in the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section of Item 7. Investment Activities The company’s investment activity is an integral part of the overall asset-liability management program of the company. The investment function provides readily available funds to support loan growth as well as to meet withdrawals and maturities of deposits and attempts to provide maximum return consistent with liquidity constraints and general prudence, including diversification and safety of investments. The securities in which the company may invest are limited by regulation. In addition, the company has an internal investment policy which restricts investments to the following categories: U.S. treasury securities, federal agency obligations (obligations issued by government sponsored enterprises that are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government), mortgage-backed securities (“MBS’s”), including collateralized mortgage obligations (“CMO’s”), and state, county and municipal securities (“Municipals”), all of which must be considered investment grade by a recognized rating service. The company also invests in certificates of deposit and, within prescribed regulatory limits, in publicly traded equity securities and registered mutual funds. The bank is also required to purchase Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (“FHLB”) stock in association with outstanding advances from the FHLB; this stock is classified as a restricted investment and carried at cost. The short-term investments classified as cash equivalents may be comprised of short-term U.S. Agency Discount Notes, money market mutual funds and overnight or short-term federal funds sold. Other short-term investments not classified as cash equivalents may consist of auction rate preferred securities, which typically have redemption (auction) dates of up to forty-nine days, but cannot readily be converted to cash at par value until the next successful auction. The investment policy also limits the categories within the investment portfolio to particular percentages of the total portfolio and to certain percentages of total assets and/or capital. The effect of changes in interest rates, principal payments and market values are considered when purchasing securities. Investment transactions, portfolio allocations and projected cash flows are prepared monthly and presented to the company’s Asset-Liability Committee of the Board of Directors (“ALCO”) on a periodic basis. ALCO is comprised of five outside directors and three executive officers of the company who are also directors, with various management liaisons. In addition, several directors who are not on the committee rotate in on a regular basis. ALCO performs an in-depth review of the company’s asset-liability strategy. The credit rating of each debt security or obligation in the portfolio is closely monitored by management and presented, at least annually, to the ALCO, along with a detailed evaluation of the company’s municipal securities portfolio. Source of Funds Deposits Deposits have traditionally been the principal source of the company’s funds. The company offers a broad selection of deposit products to the general public, including personal interest checking accounts (“PIC”), savings accounts, money market accounts, individual retirement accounts (“IRA”) and certificates of deposit. The company also offers commercial checking, business and municipal savings accounts, money market and business sweep accounts, and escrow management accounts, as well as checking and Simplified Employee Pension (“SEP”) accounts to employees of our business customers. 6 Terms on certificates of deposit range from overnight to thirty months. The company has offered premium rates on specially designated products from time to time in order to promote new branches and to attract customers. In addition, the company may use brokered certificates of deposit as an alternative to borrowing funds from the FHLB. Management determines the interest rates offered on deposit accounts based on current and expected economic conditions, competition, liquidity needs, the volatility of the existing deposits, the asset-liability position of the company and the overall objectives of the company regarding the growth and retention of relationships. The company utilizes third party money market mutual funds for sweep accounts. Management believes that commercial customers benefit from enhanced interest rate options on sweep accounts, while retaining a conservative investment option of the highest quality and safety. The balances transferred into mutual funds do not represent obligations of the company. Borrowed Funds The bank is a member of the FHLB. This membership enables the bank to borrow funds from the FHLB based on the pledge of qualifying collateral balances, including certain residential loans, commercial loans and U.S. Government and Agency securities. The company utilizes borrowings from the FHLB to fund short-term liquidity needs. This facility is an integral component of the company’s asset-liability management program. The company also borrows funds from customers (generally commercial and municipal customers) by entering into agreements to sell and repurchase investment securities from the company’s portfolio, with terms typically ranging from overnight to six months. These repurchase agreements represent a cost competitive funding source for the company. Interest rates paid by the company on these repurchase agreements are based on market conditions and the company’s need for additional funds at the time of the transaction. Junior Subordinated Debentures In March 2000 the company organized Enterprise (MA) Capital Trust I (the “Trust”), a statutory business trust created under the laws of Delaware, in order to issue $10.5 million of 10.875% trust preferred securities that mature in 2030 and are callable beginning in 2010. The proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities were used by the Trust, along with the company’s $325 thousand capital contribution, to acquire $10.8 million in aggregate principal amount of the company’s 10.875% Junior Subordinated Debentures that mature in 2030 and are callable beginning in 2010. Pursuant to Financial Interpretation No. 46R, issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board in December 2003, the company carries the $10.8 million of Junior Subordinated Debentures on the company’s financial statements as borrowed funds, with related interest expense, and the $10.5 million of trust preferred securities issued by the Trust, and the related non-interest expense, are excluded from the company’s financial statements. Investment Advisory Group The company provides a range of investment advisory and management services to individuals, family groups, businesses, trusts, foundations, nonprofit organizations, endowments and retirement plans. These services include a combination of securities brokerage services through a third party service arrangement with Commonwealth Financial Network, a licensed securities brokerage firm, and fee only investment advisory and trust services for management of equity and fixed income portfolios. Portfolios are managed based on the individual investment objectives of each client. The company’s Investment Advisory Group utilizes an open-architecture, “manager of managers” approach to client investment management. The philosophy is to identify and hire highly competitive outside mutual fund companies and investment management firms on behalf of our clients. The company performs a detailed search and due diligence review based on an objective analysis of each fund’s historic returns, management, longevity, investment style, risk profile, and other criteria. The company identifies and hires the best service providers and maintains ongoing oversight and monitoring of their performance. This rigorous due diligence enables the company to customize sound investment portfolios that meet each customer’s financial objectives and deliver superior long-term performance. 7 Enterprise Insurance Services Enterprise Insurance Services LLC engages in insurance sales activities through a third party arrangement with HUB International New England, LLC (“HUB”), a full service insurance agency, with offices in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Enterprise Insurance Services provides, through HUB, a full array of insurance products including property and casualty, employee benefits and risk-management solutions tailored to serve the specific insurance needs of businesses in a range of industries operating in the company’s market area. Internet Banking The company uses an in-house turn-key solution from its core banking system vendor for internet banking services for retail and commercial customers. Major internet banking capabilities include the following: balance inquiry; internal transfers; loan payments; ACH origination; federal tax payments; placement of stop payments; access to images of checks paid; as well as access to prior period account statements. In addition, commercial customers may take advantage of remote deposit capture service and have the ability to initiate requests for wire transfers online. Company Website The company currently uses an outside vendor to design, support and host its internet website. The underlying structure of the site provides for dynamic maintenance of the information by company personnel. The site provides information on the company and its services, as well as providing the access point to various specified banking services and to various financial management tools. In addition, the site includes the following major capabilities: career opportunities; loan and deposit rates; calculators; an ATM/Branch Locator/Map; and investor and corporate information, which includes a corporate governance page. The corporate governance page includes the company’s corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and ethics, and whistleblower protection policy, as well as the charters of the Board of Directors’ audit, compensation and personnel, and corporate governance/nominating committees. The company makes available free of charge, through a link on its web site to its SEC filings, copies of the company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, as well as all registration statements that the company has been required to file in connection with the issuance of its shares. The company similarly makes available all insider stock ownership and transaction reports filed with the SEC by the company’s executive officers, directors and any 10% stockholders under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Forms 3, 4 and 5). Access to all of these reports is essentially simultaneous with the SEC’s posting of these reports on its EDGAR system through the SEC website (www.SEC.gov). The company’s internet web address is: EnterpriseBanking.com. Competition The company faces strong competition to attract deposits and to generate loans. National and larger regional banks have a local presence in the Merrimack Valley and North Central regions of Massachusetts and in South Central New Hampshire. Numerous local savings banks, commercial banks, cooperative banks, credit unions and savings and loan associations have one or more offices in the company’s market area. Larger banks have certain competitive advantages over the company, including the ability to make larger loans to a single borrower than is possible for the company. The greater financial resources of larger banks also allow them to offer a broad range of automated banking services, to maintain numerous branch offices and to mount extensive advertising and promotional campaigns. Competition for loans and deposits also comes from other businesses that provide financial services, including consumer finance companies, mortgage brokers, insurance companies, securities brokerage firms, institutional mutual funds, private lenders and internet-only based banks. Advances in, and the increased use of, technology, such as Internet banking and electronic item processing, are expected to have a significant impact on the future competitive landscape confronting financial institutions. 8 Notwithstanding the substantial competition with which the company is faced, management believes that the company has established a solid reputation within its market area. The company’s officers and directors have substantial business and personal ties in the cities and towns in which the company operates. The company believes that it has differentiated itself from competitors by providing customers with personal and responsive service based on management’s familiarity and understanding of such customers’ banking and investment management needs. The company continually examines new products and technologies in order to maintain a highly competitive mix of offerings and to target product lines to customer needs. Management actively seeks to strengthen its position, by capitalizing on the market opportunities, and the continuing pursuit of growth within existing and neighboring markets. The company recently received regulatory approval to establish its fifteenth branch in the city of Methuen, Massachusetts. This will be the company’s sixth new branch location since 2002 To the extent that changes in the regulation of financial services may further increase competition, these changes could result in the company paying increased interest rates to obtain deposits while receiving lower interest rates on its loans. Under such circumstances, the company’s net interest margin would decline. See also “Supervision and Regulation” below, for further discussion on how new laws and regulations may effect the company’s competitive position. Supervision and Regulation General Bank holding companies and banks are subject to extensive government regulation through federal and state statutes and related regulations, which are subject to changes that can significantly affect the way in which financial service organizations conduct business. As a general matter, regulation of the banking and financial services industries continues to undergo significant changes, some of which are intended to ease legal and regulatory restrictions while others have increased regulatory requirements. For example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the “GLB Act”) eased regulatory restrictions on consolidated companies offering diversified financial services by removing the legal barriers that formerly served to separate the banking, insurance and securities industries. The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, which reduced geographic restrictions on banking organizations by enhancing their ability to operate on a nationwide basis, is another example of federal legislation that has reduced the legal and regulatory burdens on the business activity of banks and their holding companies. Many of the more recent changes in law and regulation that have increased banks’ and financial organizations’ regulatory requirements have applied to operations relevant to the “war on terrorism” or areas affecting the interests of investors and consumers. For example the United and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (a/k/a the Patriot Act) added new provisions to the Bank Secrecy Act that increased anti-money laundering and customer identification requirements, which are intended to facilitate the prevention, detection and prosecution of international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 added new financial reporting and certification, accounting, corporate governance and internal controls requirements to the company’s ongoing federal securities law compliance obligations, which are intended to enhance corporate accountability and improve the quality of investor information. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act (“FACT Act”), which amended the Fair Credit Reporting Act in 2003, requires banks and other financial firms to take measures intended to help deter identity theft by developing appropriate fraud response programs and giving consumers greater control over their credit data. 9 The Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act (“Check 21”), which became effective in 2004, is designed to facilitate the automation of the nation’s check-processing system away from physical transportation of paper checks. The law allows banks to process check information electronically, and to deliver digital images of the check to banks that choose to continue to receive paper checks. Check 21 requires all banks to accept legally equivalent substitute checks in place of originals and comply with federal regulations governing the treatment of remotely created checks and electronic check conversion transactions. Currently pending legislative proposals at both the federal level and in various states, including Massachusetts, would further address data breaches affecting consumer financial information and could impose additional operational and reporting obligations on banks and their affiliates. Any future increase in the extent of regulation imposed upon the banking or financial services industries generally could result in the company incurring additional operating and compliance costs, which in turn could impede profitability. To the extent that the information in this report under the heading “Supervision and Regulation” describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provision so described. Any changes in applicable laws or regulations may have a material effect on the business and prospects of the company. Regulation of the Holding Company The company is a registered bank holding company under the federal Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “Bank Holding Company Act”). The business and operations of the company are subject to the supervision and examination of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) and the company files reports with the Federal Reserve Board as required under the Bank Holding Company Act. Under applicable Massachusetts law, the company is also subject to the supervisory jurisdiction of the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks (the “Commissioner”). The Bank Holding Company Act requires prior approval by the Federal Reserve Board of the acquisition by the company of substantially all the assets or more than five percent of the voting stock of any bank. The Bank Holding Company Act also authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to determine (by order or by regulation) what activities are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident of banking, and thus, whether the company, either directly or indirectly through non-bank subsidiaries, can engage in such activities. The Bank Holding Company Act prohibits the company and the bank from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit, sale of property or furnishing of services. There are also restrictions on extensions of credit and other transactions between the bank, on the one hand, and the company, or other affiliates of the bank, on the other hand. The GLB Act enhanced the authority of banks and their holding companies to engage in non-banking activities. By electing to become a “financial holding company”, a qualified parent company of a banking institution may engage, directly or through its non-bank subsidiaries, in any activity that is financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity or in any other activity that is complimentary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. A bank holding company will be able to successfully elect to be regulated as a financial holding company if all of its depository institution subsidiaries meet certain prescribed standards pertaining to management, capital adequacy and compliance with the federal Community Reinvestment Act. Financial holding companies remain subject to regulation and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board. The company believes that the bank, which is the company’s sole depository institution subsidiary, presently satisfies all of the requirements that must be met to enable the company to successfully elect to become a financial holding company. However, the company has no current intention of seeking to become a financial holding company. Such a course of action may become necessary or appropriate at some time in the future depending upon the company’s strategic plan. 10 Regulation of the Bank As a trust company organized under Chapter 172 of the Massachusetts General Laws, the deposits of the bank are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”), up to the maximum amount provided by law. The bank is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Commissioner and the FDIC. The bank is also subject to certain regulatory requirements of the Federal Reserve Board. The regulations of these agencies govern many aspects of the bank’s business, including permitted investments, the opening and closing of branches, the amount of loans which can be made to a single borrower, mergers, appointment and conduct of officers and directors, capital levels and terms of deposits. The Federal Reserve Board also requires the bank to maintain minimum reserves on its deposits. Federal and state regulators can impose sanctions on the bank and its management if the bank engages in unsafe or unsound practices or otherwise fails to comply with regulatory standards. Various other federal and state laws and regulations, such as truth-in-lending and truth-in-savings statutes, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Community Reinvestment Act, Check 21 and the FACT Act, also govern the bank’s activities and operations. Pursuant to the GLB Act, the bank may also form, subject to the approvals of the Commissioner and the FDIC, “financial subsidiaries” to engage in any activity that is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity. In order to qualify for the authority to form a financial subsidiary, the bank would be required to satisfy certain conditions, some of which are substantially similar to those that the company would be required to satisfy in order to elect to become a financial holding company. The company believes that the bank would be able to satisfy all of the conditions that would be required to form a financial subsidiary, although the company has no current intention of doing so. Such a course of action may become necessary or appropriate at some time in the future depending upon the company’s strategic plan. Deposit Insurance Assessment As of January 1, 2007, the bank is subject to a revised deposit insurance assessment system as implemented by the FDIC in accordance with the requirements of the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the “Deposit Insurance Reform Act”). Under the former system for assessing deposit insurance premiums on federally insured banks and thrifts, the bank had no current obligation to pay any deposit insurance premium based on its designation as “well capitalized”. Effective January 1, 2007, the new deposit insurance assessment rates will be determined based upon a combination of an institution’s financial ratios and supervisory factors. Under the new deposit insurance assessment system, even the highest risk-rated (i.e., least risk) banks and thrifts are subject to some level of assessment payable to the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund. There are four established risk categories under the new assessment rules. The bank anticipates that it will qualify as a Risk Category I (least risk) institution with an assessment rate in a range of 5 to 7 basis points of the bank’s deposit assessment base, as defined by the FDIC. Based upon an analytic tool provided by the FDIC, the bank anticipates that its projected calculated assessment rate for 2007 will be at the lower end of this range. Under the Deposit Insurance Reform Act, eligible insured depository institutions, such as the bank, will share in a one-time assessment credit pool of approximately $4.7 billion, effectively reducing the amount these institutions will be required to submit as an overall assessment. As indicated in the final rule regarding this credit published in October 2006, the FDIC provided the bank with a preliminary Statement of One-Time Credit. The bank’s portion of the one-time assessment credit as indicated on that statement is approximately $333 thousand. The FDIC will apply the bank’s one-time assessment credit against the bank’s payment of future deposit insurance assessments. The company anticipates that the credit will offset more than half of the bank’s deposit insurance assessments for fiscal year 2007. 11 Dividends Under Massachusetts law, the company’s board of directors is generally empowered to pay dividends on the company’s capital stock out of its net profits to the extent that the board of directors considers such payment advisable. Massachusetts banking law also imposes substantially similar standards upon the payment of dividends by the bank to the company. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”) also prohibits a bank from paying any dividends on its capital stock in the event that the bank is in default on the payment of any assessment to the FDIC or if the payment of any such dividend would otherwise cause the bank to become undercapitalized. Capital Resources Capital planning by the company and the bank considers current needs and anticipated future growth. The primary sources of capital have been the sale of common stock in 1988 and 1989, the issuance of $10.5 million of trust preferred securities in 2000 by the Trust, retention of earnings less dividends paid since the bank commenced operations, and proceeds from the exercise of stock options. The Company The Federal Reserve Board has adopted capital adequacy guidelines that generally require bank holding companies to maintain total capital equal to 8% of total risk-weighted assets, with at least one-half of that amount (or 4% of total risk-weighted asset) consisting of core or Tier 1 capital. Total capital for the company consists of Tier 1 capital and supplementary or Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital for the company begins with common stockholders’ equity and is reduced by certain intangible assets. In addition, trust preferred securities may compose up to 25% of the company’s Tier 1 capital (subject to certain limitations and with any excess allocable to Tier 2 capital). Supplementary capital for the company is comprised solely of a portion of the allowance for loan losses. Assets are adjusted under the risk-based capital guidelines to take into account different levels of credit risk, for example, cash and government securities are placed in a 0% risk category (requiring no additional capital), most home mortgage loans are placed in a 50% risk category, and the bulk of assets that, by their nature in the ordinary course of business, pose a direct credit risk to a bank holding company, including commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans and consumer loans, are placed in a 100% risk category. In addition to the risk-based capital requirements, the Federal Reserve Board requires bank holding companies to maintain a minimum “leverage” ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average total assets of 4% (3% percent if given the highest regulatory rating and not experiencing significant growth). The Bank The bank is subject to separate capital adequacy requirements of the FDIC, which are substantially similar to the requirements of the Federal Reserve Board applicable to the company. However, trust preferred proceeds contributed to the bank from the company are included in Tier 1 capital of the bank without limitation. The company contributed $10.3 million of proceeds from the sale of these securities to the bank in 2000. Under the FDIC requirements, the minimum total capital requirement is 8% of total assets and certain off-balance sheet items, weighted by risk. At least 4% of the total 8% ratio must consist of Tier 1 capital (primarily common equity including retained earnings) and the remainder may consist of subordinated debt, cumulative preferred stock and a limited amount of loan loss reserves. At the bank level, as at the company level on a consolidated basis, certain intangible assets are deducted from Tier 1 capital in calculating regulatory capital ratios. Under the applicable FDIC capital requirements, the bank is also required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio. The ratio is determined by dividing Tier 1 capital by quarterly average total assets, less intangible assets and other adjustments. FDIC rules require a minimum of 3% for the highest rated banks. Banks experiencing high growth rates are expected to maintain capital positions well above minimum levels. 12 Depository institutions, such as the bank, are also subject to the prompt corrective action framework for capital adequacy established by FDICIA. Under FDICIA, the federal banking regulators are required to take prompt supervisory and regulatory actions against undercapitalized depository institutions. FDICIA establishes five capital categories: “well capitalized”, “adequately capitalized”, “undercapitalized”, “significantly undercapitalized”, and “critically undercapitalized”. A “well capitalized” institution has a total capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 6%, a leverage ratio of at least 5% and is not subject to any written order, agreement or directive; an “adequately capitalized” institution has a total capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 4%, and a leverage ratio of at least 4% (3% percent if given the highest regulatory rating and not experiencing significant growth), but does not qualify as “well capitalized”. An “undercapitalized” institution fails to meet one of the three minimum capital requirements. A “significantly undercapitalized” institution has a total capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of less than 6%, a Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of less than 3%, and a leverage ratio of less than 3%. A “critically undercapitalized” institution has a ratio of tangible equity to assets of 2%, or less. Under certain circumstances, a “well capitalized”, “adequately capitalized” or “undercapitalized” institution may be required to comply with supervisory actions as if the institution were in the next lowest category. Failure to meet applicable minimum capital requirements, including a depository institution being classified as less than “adequately capitalized” within FDICIA’s prompt corrective action framework, may subject a bank holding company or its subsidiary depository institution(s) to various enforcement actions, including substantial restrictions on operations and activities, dividend limitations, issuance of a directive to increase capital and, for a depository institution, termination of deposit insurance and the appointment of a conservator or receiver. Patents, Trademarks, etc. The company holds a number of registered service marks related to product names and corporate branding. The company holds no patents, registered trademarks, licenses (other than licenses required to be obtained from appropriate banking regulatory agencies), franchises or concessions which are material to its business. Employees At December 31, 2006, the company employed 282 full-time equivalent employees, including 100 officers. None of the company’s employees are presently represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Management believes its employee relations to be excellent. Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the company’s common stock is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the company are described below. These risks and uncertainties are not listed in any particular order of priority and are not necessarily the only ones facing the company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the company’s business and results of operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the company’s common stock could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose some or all of their investment. 13 The Company is Subject to Interest Rate Risk The company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income, meaning the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the company’s control. If the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”, for further discussions related to the company’s management of interest rate risk. The Company is Subject to Lending Risk There are inherent risks associated with the company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the market areas in which the company operates. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The company’s loan portfolio consists primarily of commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and construction loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. The underlying commercial real estate values and customer payment expectations on such loans can be more easily influenced by adverse conditions in the real estate market or in the economy in general. Commercial construction financing involves a higher degree of risk than long term financing on existing occupied real estate. An underestimation of the actual costs necessary to complete a construction project would require the company to advance funds beyond the original commitment in order to finish the development. Any significant deterioration in the company’s commercial loan portfolio or underlying collateral values could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the discussion under the heading “Loans” included in the section entitled “Financial Condition”, which is contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, for further information regarding the company’s commercial loan portfolio. The Company’s Profitability Depends Significantly on Economic Conditions in the Company’s Primary Market Areas The company’s success depends principally on the general economic conditions of the primary market areas in which the company operates. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the company’s products and services as well as the ability of the company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the company’s deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. 14 The Company’s Allowance for Loan Losses May Be Insufficient The company maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to earnings that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the company’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of the company’s management. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, depending upon the magnitude of the changes, could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the discussions contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, under the headings “Risk Elements/Asset Quality” and “Allowance for Loan Losses”, contained in the section “Financial Condition”, and under the heading “Allowance for Loan Losses”, which is contained in the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section of Item 7 for further information regarding the process by which the company determines the appropriate level of its allowance for loan losses. The Company Operates in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area The company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have more financial resources than the company. These competitors include not only national, regional, and other community banks, but also various types of other non-bank financial institutions, such as credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. See the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1, “Business”, for additional information regarding the competitive issues facing the company. The Company is Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision The company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not the interests of shareholders. These regulations affect the company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Changes to federal or state statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of existing statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the company in substantial and unpredictable ways, including subjecting the company to additional costs, limiting the types of financial services and products the company may offer and/or increasing competition from other non-bank providers of financial services. See the section entitled “Supervision and Regulation” contained in Item 1, “Business”, for additional information regarding the supervisory and regulatory issues facing the company. The Company’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates the company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 The Company Relies on Dividends From the Bank for Substantially All of its Revenue The company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the bank. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid by the bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds used to pay dividends on the company’s common stock and interest and principal on the company’s subordinated debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank may pay to the company. If the bank is unable to pay dividends to the company, then the company will be unable to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the company’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the bank could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Slower than Expected Growth in New Branches and New Products and Services Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Profitability The company has placed a strategic emphasis on expanding its branch network and product and service offerings. Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth both in new branches and new products and services. New branches and new products and services require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources. Lower than expected loan and deposit growth in new branches and/or lower than expected fee or other income from new products and services could decrease anticipated revenues and net income generated by such investments. Opening new branches and introducing new products and services could also divert resources from current core operations and thereby further adversely affect the company’s growth and profitability. Growth Strategies Involving Acquisitions Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Profitability The company may in the future explore growth opportunities through acquisition of other banks, financial services companies or lines of their business. Any future acquisition could adversely affect the company’s profitability based on management’s ability to successfully complete the acquisition and integrate the acquired business. Increased Reliance on Borrowings as a Source of Funds Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Profitability The company has traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a lower cost source of funds than borrowings, because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as result of competitive pressures, market interest rates, general economic conditions or other events, the balance of the company’s deposits decreases relative to the company’s overall banking operations, the company may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future. Any such increased reliance on borrowings could have a negative impact on the company’s net interest income and, consequently, on its results of operations and financial condition. The Company May Not be Able to Attract and Retain Key Personnel The company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the company can be intense and the company may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that it depends upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 16 The Company’s Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security The company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business and to provide internet banking services to its customers. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the company’s information systems could damage the company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, expose customer’s personal information to unauthorized parties, subject the company to additional regulatory scrutiny, and expose the company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the discussion under the heading “Opportunities and Risks” included in the section entitled “Overview”, which is contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, for further information regarding the company’s information security and technology practices. The Company’s Relies on Independent Service Providers The company relies on independent firms to provide key services necessary to conducting its business. These services include, but are not limited to: electronic funds delivery networks; electronic banking services; investment advisory, management and custodial services; correspondent banking services; information security assessments; and loan underwriting and review services. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the independent firms’ systems or in their delivery of services, could result in a loss of customer business, expose customer’s personal information to unauthorized parties, damage the company’s reputation and expose the company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Continually Encounters Technological Change The banking industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Many of the company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the banking industry could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business and, in turn, the company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Trading Volume in the Company’s Common Stock is Less Than That of Larger Companies Although the company’s common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market, the trading volume in the company’s common stock is substantially less than that of larger companies. Given the lower trading volume of the company’s common stock, significant purchases or sales of the company’s common stock, or the expectation of such purchases or sales, could cause significant swings up or down in the company’s stock price. Shareholder Dilution May Occur if Additional Stock is Issued in the Future If the company’s Board of Directors should determine in the future that there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of the company’s common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock, such issuances could result in dilution to existing shareholders’ ownership interest. Similarly, if the Board of Directors decides to grant additional stock options for the purchase of shares of common stock, the issuance of additional shares upon exercise of the options may expose shareholders to dilution. 17 Directors and Executive Officers own a significant portion of common stock The company’s directors and executive officers as a group beneficially own approximately 30% of the company’s outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2006. As a result of this combined ownership interest, the directors and executive officers have the ability, if they vote their shares in a like manner, to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. The Company’s Articles Of Organization, By-Laws and Shareholders Rights Plan as Well as Certain Banking Laws May Have an Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of the company’s articles of organization and by-laws, its shareholders rights plan and certain federal and state banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the company’s shareholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the company’s common stock. Additional Factors Described Elsewhere in This Report In addition to the factors listed above in this section, additional important factors that could adversely affect the results of the company’s future operations are described under the heading “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 