Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures PART III Item 10. Directors and Executives Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS INTRODUCTION Willis Lease Finance Corporation with its subsidiaries is a leading lessor of commercial aircraft engines. Our strategy is to provide leasing services to a diversified group of customers worldwide. In particular, we provide this service to commercial aircraft operators and maintenance and repair organizations (“MROs”). Commercial aircraft operators need engines in addition to those installed in the aircraft that they operate. These spare engines are required for various reasons including requirements that engines be inspected and repaired at regular intervals based on equipment utilization. Furthermore, unscheduled events such as mechanical failure, FAA airworthiness directives or manufacturer-recommended actions for maintenance, repair and overhaul of engines result in the need for spare engines. Commercial aircraft operators and others in the industry generally estimate that the total number of spare engines needed is approximately 15% of the total number of installed engines. Today it is estimated that there are nearly 35,000 engines installed on commercial aircraft (excluding regional jets). Accordingly, we estimate that there are approximately 5,000 spare engines in the market, including both owned and leased spare engines. Our engine portfolio consists of noise-compliant Stage III commercial jet engines manufactured by CFMI, General Electric, Pratt & Whitney, Rolls Royce and International Aero Engine. These engines generally may be used on one or more aircraft types and are the most widely used engines in the world, powering Airbus, Boeing and McDonnell Douglas aircraft. Our portfolio is continually changing due to acquisitions and sales. As of December 31, 2005, we had a total lease portfolio consisting of 124 engines and related equipment, five aircraft, and three spare parts packages with 50 lessees in 27 countries and an aggregate net book value of $540.7 million. We also seek, from time to time, to act as leasing agent of engines for other parties. We hold a fifty percent membership interest in a joint venture, WOLF A340, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, (“WOLF”). On December 30, 2005, WOLF completed the purchase of two Airbus A340-313 aircraft from Boeing Aircraft Holding Company for a purchase price of $96 million. These aircraft are currently leased to Emirates with remaining lease terms of 90 and 92 months. Our investment in the joint venture is $8.9 million. We are a Delaware corporation, incorporated in 1996. Our executive offices are located at 2320 Marinship Way, Suite 300, Sausalito, California 94965. We transact business directly and through our subsidiaries unless otherwise indicated. We maintain a website at www.willislease.com where our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0300. The SEC also maintains an electronic Internet site that contains our reports, proxy and information statements, and other information at http://www.sec.gov. We do not break our business into multiple segments. Instead, we consider our continuing operations to operate in one reportable segment. THE WEST SECURITIZATION Willis Engine Securitization Trust, or “WEST,” is a special-purpose, bankruptcy-remote, Delaware statutory trust that is wholly-owned by us and consolidated in our financial statements. We established WEST to acquire and finance engines owned by another of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, WEST Engine Funding LLC (formerly Willis Engine Funding LLC). In August 2005 WEST issued and sold four series of notes to finance its acquisition of 61 engines. WEST’s obligations under these notes are serviced by revenues from the lease and disposition of its engines, and are secured by all its assets, including all its interests in its engines, its subsidiaries, restricted cash accounts, engine maintenance reserve accounts, all proceeds from the sale or disposition of engines, and all insurance proceeds. We have not guaranteed any obligations of WEST and none of our assets secure such obligations. We are the servicer and administrative agent for WEST. Our annual fees for these services are 11.5% as servicer and 2.0% as administrative agent of the aggregate net rents actually received by WEST on its engines, and such fees are payable to us monthly. We are also paid a fee of 3% of the net proceeds from the sale of any engines. As WEST is consolidated in our financial statements these fees eliminate on consolidation. Proceeds from engine sales will be used, at WEST’s election, to reduce WEST’s debt or to acquire other engines. At the closing, WEST agreed to acquire 61 engines from us by acquiring WEST Engine Funding LLC (58 engines) and three engines directly from us. As a result of the transfer of engines from us to WEST, we no longer have access to these engines and they are 3 managed to repay the note holders of WEST and for us as the equity holder of WEST. These transactions did not change the book value of the engines in the consolidated financial statements. WEST acquired these engines from us with the net proceeds of the issuance of $228.3 million aggregate principal amount of secured term notes issued by WEST (also called the Series 2005-A1 Floating Rate Notes and Series 2005-B1 Floating Rate Notes) (collectively, the “Asset-Backed Securitization”). We used these funds net of a $3.0 million discount on the Series 2005 A-1 Floating Rate Notes to pay off $203.7 million of our indebtedness, pay transaction expenses of approximately $6.4 million, fund the liquidity facilities for the trust of approximately $9.4 million and received cash of approximately $6.0 million for general corporate purposes. WEST also provides a warehouse financing facility of approximately $113.6 million in aggregate principal amount of secured revolving notes (also called Series 2005-A2 Floating Rate Notes and Series 2005-B2 Floating Rate Notes), which may be increased, subject to certain conditions, to $171.4 million to acquire additional engines for lease, to maintain engines and pay certain amounts on WEST’s term notes. WEST gives us the flexibility to manage the portfolio to adapt to changes in aircraft fleets and customer demand over time, benefiting both us and the investors. The Asset-Backed Securitization provides a significant improvement to our capital structure by better matching debt maturity to asset life. It includes a $113.6 million warehouse facility to provide additional borrowing capacity, which offers new capital to fund growth and, more importantly, provides a structure for regular placement of additional term notes in the future as the warehouse matures. When term notes are issued to refinance the warehouse borrowings, the warehouse will again be available for new engine purchases, giving us a platform to fund our growth into the future. OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES We are uniquely positioned in the market and remain competitive, in part, due to the following advantages: • We have an entrepreneurial culture and our size and independent ownership structure gives us a unique ability to move faster than our competition. • Our independent ownership allows us to meet our customer needs without regard to any potentially conflicting affiliate demands to use their engines or services. • We have significant technical expertise and experience. • We have extensive industry contacts/relationships—worldwide. • We have a trusted reputation for quality engines and engine records. • We have a diverse portfolio by customer, geography and engine type. • We have a diverse product offering (by engine type and types of leases). MARKET OVERVIEW FOR SPARE ENGINES Historically, commercial aircraft operators owned rather than leased their engines. As engines become more powerful and technically sophisticated, they also become more expensive to acquire and maintain. In part due to cash constraints on commercial aircraft operators and the costs associated with engine ownership, commercial aircraft operators have become more cost-conscious and now utilize operating leases for a portion of their engines. As a result, commercial aircraft operators are able to better manage their finances in this capital-intensive business. Engine leasing is a specialized business that has evolved into a discrete sector of the commercial aviation market. Participants in this sector need access to capital, as well as specialized technical knowledge, in order to compete successfully. Growth in the spare engine leasing industry is dependent on two fundamental drivers: • the number of commercial aircraft, and therefore engines, in the market; and • the proportion of engines that are leased, rather than owned, by commercial aircraft operators. We believe both drivers will increase over time. Increased number of aircraft, and therefore engines, in the market We believe that the number of commercial and cargo aircraft, and hence spare engines, will increase. Airbus Industries estimates that there are roughly 11,000 aircraft (excluding regional jets) as of 2004 and projects this will grow to approximately 21,500 aircraft 4 (excluding regional jets) by 2023. Aircraft equipment manufacturers have predicted such an increase in aircraft to address the rapid growth of both passenger and cargo traffic in the Asian markets, as well as demand for new aircraft in more mature markets. Increased lease penetration rate Spare engines provide support for installed engines in the event of routine or other engine maintenance or unscheduled removal. The number of spare engines needed to service any fleet is determined by many factors. These factors include: • the number and type of aircraft in an aircraft operator’s fleet; • the geographic scope of such aircraft operator’s destinations; • the time an engine is on-wing between removals; • average shop visit time; and • the number of spare engines an aircraft operator requires in order to ensure coverage for predicted and unscheduled removals. We believe that commercial aircraft operators are increasingly considering their spare engines as significant capital assets, where operating leases may be more attractive than capital leases or ownership of spare engines. Some believe that the industry estimate (that the total number of spare engines is approximately 15% of the total number of installed engines needed) is likely a conservative estimate. Some also believe that currently as many as 20% of the spare engine market falls under the category of leased engines. Industry analysts have forecast that the percentage of leased engines is likely to rise over the next 15 years as engine leasing follows the growth of aircraft leasing. We believe this is due to the increasing cost of newer engines, the anticipated modernization of the worldwide aircraft fleet and the significant cost associated therewith, and the emergence of new niche-focused airlines which generally use leasing in order to obtain their capital assets. ENGINE LEASING As of December 31, 2005, all of our leases to air carriers, manufacturers and MROs are operating leases as opposed to finance leases. Although we have no current plans to enter into finance leases, we may decide to enter into finance leases in the future. Under operating leases, we retain the potential benefit and assume the risk of the residual value of the aircraft equipment, in contrast to capital or financing leases where the lessee has more of the potential benefits and risks of ownership. Operating leases allow commercial aircraft operators greater fleet and financial flexibility due to the relatively small initial capital outlay necessary to obtain use of the aircraft equipment, and the availability of short and long term leases to better meet their needs. Operating lease rates are generally higher than finance lease rates, in part because of the risks associated with the residual value. We describe all of our current leases as triple-net operating leases. A triple-net operating lease requires the lessee to make the full lease payment and pay any other expenses associated with the use of the engines, such as maintenance, casualty and liability insurance, sales or use taxes and personal property taxes. The leases contain detailed provisions specifying the lessees’ responsibility for engine damage, maintenance standards and the required condition of the engine upon return at the end of the lease. During the term of the lease, we generally require the lessee to maintain the engine in accordance with an approved maintenance program designed to meet applicable regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which the lessee operates. Under short-term leases and certain medium-term leases, we may undertake a portion of the maintenance and regulatory compliance risk. We try to mitigate risk where possible. For example, we make an analysis of the credit risk associated with the lessee before entering into any significant lease transaction. Our credit analysis generally consists of evaluating the prospective lessee’s financial standing by utilizing financial statements and trade and/or banking references. In certain circumstances, we may require our lessees to provide additional credit support such as a letter of credit or a guaranty from a bank or a third party or a security deposit. We also evaluate insurance and expropriation risk and evaluate and monitor the political and legal climate of the country in which a particular lessee is located in order to determine our ability to repossess our engines should the need arise. Despite these guidelines, we cannot give assurance that we will not experience collection problems or significant losses in the future. See “Risk Factors” below. At the commencement of a lease, we may collect, in advance, a security deposit (normally equal to at least one month’s lease payment), and during the term of the lease, maintenance reserves from the lessee based on the lessee’s use of the engine. The security deposit is returned to the lessee after all return conditions have been met. Maintenance reserves are collected and are used when normal repairs associated with engine use or maintenance are required. Under longer-term leases, to the extent that cumulative maintenance reserves are inadequate to fund normal repairs required prior to return of the engine to us, the lessee is obligated to cover the shortfall. Recovery is therefore dependent upon the financial condition of the lessee. 5 During the lease period, our leases require that maintenance and inspection of the leased engines be performed at qualified maintenance facilities certified by the FAA or its foreign equivalent. In addition, when an engine comes off-lease, it undergoes inspection to verify compliance with lease return conditions. Our management believes that our attention to our lessees, and our emphasis on maintenance and inspection helps preserve residual values and generally helps us to recover our investment in our leased engines. Upon termination of a lease, we will lease or sell the related engines. The demand for aftermarket engines for either sale or lease may be affected by a number of variables, including: • general market conditions; • regulatory changes (particularly those imposing environmental, maintenance and other requirements on the operation of engines); • changes in demand for air travel; • fuel costs; • changes in the supply and cost of aircraft equipment; and • technological developments. In addition, the value of particular used engines varies greatly depending upon their condition, the maintenance services performed during the lease term and, as applicable, the number of hours or cycles remaining until the next major maintenance is required. If we are unable to lease or sell engines on favorable terms, our financial results and our ability to service debt may be adversely affected. See “Risk Factors” below. The value of a particular model of engine is heavily dependent on the status of the types of aircraft on which it is installed. We believe values of engines tend to be stable so long as the host aircraft for the engines as well as the engines themselves are still being manufactured. Prices will also tend to remain stable and even rise after a host aircraft is no longer manufactured (for example, Boeing has recently discontinued production of the 757 without a concomitant drop in related engine values), so long as there is sufficient demand for the host aircraft. However, the value of an engine begins to decline rapidly once the host aircraft begins to be retired from service and/or parted out in significant numbers. Values of engines also may decline because of manufacturing defects that may surface subsequently. As of December 31, 2005, we had a total lease portfolio of 124 aircraft engines and related equipment, three spare parts packages, five aircraft and various parts and other engine-related equipment with an aggregate original cost of $638.2 million in our lease portfolio. As of December 31, 2004, we had a total lease portfolio of 115 aircraft engines and related equipment, three spare parts packages, five aircraft and various parts and other engine-related equipment with an aggregate original cost of $587.4 million in our lease portfolio. As of December 31, 2005, minimum future rentals under noncancelable operating leases of these engines, parts and aircraft assets were as follows: Year (in thousands) 2006 $ 42,052 2007 30,777 2008 20,938 2009 14,405 2010 12,026 Thereafter 8,689 $ 128,887 As of December 31, 2005, we had 50 lessees of commercial aircraft engines, aircraft, and other aircraft-related equipment in 27 countries. We do not believe we are dependent on a single customer or a few customers the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues. AIRCRAFT LEASING As of December 31, 2005, we owned five DeHaviland DHC-8-100 turboprop aircraft, all of which we lease to Island Air. Island Air leases the aircraft from us under noncancelable leases that generate lease revenue of approximately $2.5 million per year for the remaining periods of between one and three years. These aircraft have a net book value of $13.9 million. 6 Island Air was acquired from its former parent, Aloha Airlines on May 11, 2004 by a company controlled by Charles F. Willis, IV, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and controlling stockholder. Aloha Airlines guaranteed Island Air’s obligations under four of our aircraft leases, but Aloha Airlines filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in December 2004. With its emergence from Chapter 11 in February 2006, Aloha Airlines’ obligations under its guranty were discharged. The five leases are still performing, and, the lessee is current on all obligations and no provision has been made for any loss. Our aircraft leases are “triple-net” leases and the lessee is responsible for all operating expenses, including fuel, crews, airport and navigation and landing charges, taxes, licenses, registration and insurance. In addition, the lessee is responsible for normal maintenance and repairs, engine and airframe overhauls, and compliance with return conditions of flight equipment on lease. Under the provisions of many leases, for certain engine and airframe overhauls, we reimburse the lessee for costs incurred up to but not exceeding maintenance reserves the lessee has paid to us. The lessee is also responsible for compliance with all applicable laws and regulations with respect to the aircraft. We require our lessees to comply with FAA requirements. We periodically inspect our leased aircraft. Generally, we require a deposit as security for the lessee’s performance of obligations under the lease and the condition of the aircraft upon return. In addition, the leases contain extensive provisions regarding our remedies and rights in the event of a default by the lessee and specific provisions regarding the condition of the aircraft upon return. The lessee is required to continue to make lease payments under all circumstances, including periods during which the aircraft is not in operation due to maintenance or grounding. We hold a fifty percent membership interest in a joint venture, WOLF A340, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, (“WOLF”). On December 30, 2005, WOLF completed the purchase of two Airbus A340-313 aircraft from Boeing Aircraft Holding Company for a purchase price of $96 million. These aircraft are currently on lease to Emirates until 2013. Our investment in the joint venture is $8.9 million. COMPETITION The markets for our products and services are very competitive, and we face competition from a number of sources. These competitors include aircraft engine and aircraft parts manufacturers, aircraft and aircraft engine lessors, airline and aircraft service and repair companies and aircraft spare parts distributors. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than us. Those resources may include greater name recognition, larger product lines, complementary lines of business, greater financial, marketing, information systems and other resources. In addition, equipment manufacturers, aircraft maintenance providers, FAA certified repair facilities and other aviation aftermarket suppliers may vertically integrate into the markets that we serve, thereby significantly increasing industry competition. We can give no assurance that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Risk Factors”. INSURANCE In addition to requiring full indemnification under the terms of our leases, we require our lessees to carry the types of insurance customary in the air transportation industry, including comprehensive third party liability insurance and physical damage and casualty insurance. We require that we be named as an additional insured on liability insurance with the Company and its lenders normally identified as the loss payee for damage to the equipment on policies carried by lessees. We monitor compliance with the insurance provisions of the leases. We also carry contingent physical damage and third party liability insurance as well as product liability insurance. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Our customers are subject to a high degree of regulation in the jurisdictions in which they operate. For example, the FAA regulates the manufacture, repair and operation of all aircraft operated in the United States and equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries, such as the Joint Aviation Authority (“JAA”) in Europe, regulate aircraft operated in those countries. Such regulations also indirectly affect our business operations. All aircraft operated in the United States must be maintained under a continuous condition-monitoring program and must periodically undergo thorough inspection and maintenance. The inspection, maintenance and repair procedures for commercial aircraft are prescribed by regulatory authorities and can be performed only by certified repair facilities utilizing certified technicians. The FAA can suspend or revoke the authority of air carriers or their licensed personnel for failure to comply with regulations and ground aircraft if their airworthiness is in question. While our leasing and reselling business is not regulated, the aircraft, engines and engine parts that we leases and sells to our customers must be accompanied by documentation that enables the customer to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Furthermore, before parts may be installed in an aircraft, they must meet certain standards of condition established by the FAA and/or the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although regulatory requirements in other countries are generally satisfied by compliance with FAA requirements. Presently, whenever necessary, with respect to a particular engine or engine component, we utilize FAA and/or JAA certified repair stations to repair and certify engines and components to ensure marketability. 7 Effective January 1, 2000, federal regulations stipulate that all aircraft engines hold, or be capable of holding, a noise certificate issued under Chapter 3 of Volume 1, Part II of Annex 16 of the Chicago Convention, or have been shown to comply with Stage III noise levels set out in Section 36.5 of Appendix C of Part 36 of the FAA Regulations of the United States if the engines are to be used in the continental United States. Additionally, much of Europe has adopted similar regulations. As of December 31, 2005, all of the engines in our lease portfolio are Stage III engines and are generally suitable for use on one or more commonly used aircraft. We believe that the aviation industry will be subject to continued regulatory activity. Additionally, increased oversight has and will continue to originate from the quality assurance departments of airline operators. We have been able to meet all such requirements to date, and believe that we will be able meet any additional requirements that may be imposed. We cannot give assurance, however, that new, more stringent government regulations will not be adopted in the future or that any such new regulations, if enacted, would not have a material adverse impact on us. GEOGRAPHIC AREAS IN WHICH WE OPERATE Most of our engines, related aircraft parts and equipment (all of which we sometimes refer to as “equipment”) are leased; approximately 84% is operated internationally. All leases relating to this equipment are denominated and payable in U.S. dollars, which is customary in the industry. Future leases may provide for payments to be made in Euros or other foreign currencies. We lease our equipment to lessees domiciled in 9 geographic regions. We are subject to a number of risks related to our foreign operations. See “Risk Factors” below. The following table displays the regional profile of our lease customer base for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. No single country other than the United States accounted for more than 10% of our lease revenue for any of those periods. The tables include geographic information about our leased equipment grouped by the lessee’s domicile (which does not necessarily indicate the asset’s actual location): Year Ended December 31, 2005 Year Ended December 31, 2004 Year Ended December 31, 2003 Lease Revenue Percentage Lease Revenue Percentage Lease Revenue Percentage (dollars in thousands) United States $ 10,167 16 % $ 8,094 14 % $ 6,373 11 % Canada — — 238 — 1,042 2 Mexico 4,658 8 4,225 7 4,349 8 Australia/New Zealand — — 670 1 853 1 Europe 22,716 36 25,943 45 25,310 45 South America 9,985 16 8,452 15 7,576 13 Asia 9,649 15 4,889 8 5,540 10 Africa 780 1 1,064 2 1,373 2 Middle East 5,164 8 4,602 8 4,561 8 Total $ 63,119 100 % $ 58,177 100 % $ 56,977 100 % FINANCING/SOURCE OF FUNDS We, directly or through WEST, typically acquire engines with a combination of equity capital and funds borrowed from financial institutions. In order to facilitate financing and leasing of engines, each engine is generally owned through a statutory or common law trust that is wholly-owned by us or our subsidiaries. We usually borrow 80% to 83% of an engine purchase price. Substantially all of our assets secure our related indebtedness. We typically acquire engines from airlines in a sale-lease back transaction, from engine manufacturers or from other lessors. From time to time, we selectively acquire engines prior to a firm commitment to lease or sell the engine, depending on the price of the engine, market demand with the expectation that we can lease or sell such engines. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS On February 7, 2006, we completed our public offering of 3,475,000 shares of our 9.0% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $10 per share, or approximately $34.8 million in total. After underwriting commissions and expenses of issuance, we received net proceeds of approximately $32.9 million. The preferred stock accrues cash dividends from the date of issuance at a rate of 9.0% per annum, or approximately $260,625 per month. The first dividend payment was paid March 15, 2006. The payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors. The Series A Preferred Stock, which is a new series of our capital stock, is traded on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol WLFCP. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2005, we had 47 full-time employees (excluding consultants), in sales and marketing, technical service and administration. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement and we believe our employee relations are 8 satisfactory. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We are affected by the risks faced by commercial aircraft operators and MROs because they are our customers. Commercial aircraft operators are engaged in economically sensitive, highly cyclical and competitive businesses. We are a supplier to commercial aircraft operators and MROs. As a result, we are indirectly affected by all the risks facing commercial aircraft operators and MROs, which are beyond our control. Our results of operations depend, in part, on the financial strength of our customers and our customers’ ability to compete effectively in the marketplace and manage their risks. These risks include, among others: • general economic conditions in the countries in which our customers operate, including changes in gross domestic product; • demand for air travel and air cargo shipments; • changes in interest rates and the availability and terms of credit available to commercial aircraft operators; • security, terrorism, war, health and political instability; • environmental compliance and other regulatory costs; • labor contracts, labor costs and stoppages at commercial aircraft operators; • aircraft fuel prices and availability; • technological developments; • maintenance costs; • airport access and air traffic control infrastructure constraints; • insurance and other operating costs incurred by commercial aircraft operators and MROs; and • industry capacity, utilization and general market conditions and market prices for aviation equipment. To the extent that our customers are negatively affected by these risk factors, we may experience: • a decrease in demand for some engine types in our portfolio; • greater credit risks from our customers, and a higher incidence of lessee defaults and repossessions; • an inability to quickly lease engines and aircraft when these become available through our purchase commitments and regular lease terminations on commercially acceptable terms; and • shorter lease terms, which may increase our expenses and reduce our utilization rates. Continuing failures by lessees to meet their maintenance and recordkeeping obligations under our leases could adversely affect the value of our leased engines and our ability to lease the engines in a timely manner following termination of the lease. The value and income producing potential of an engine depend heavily on it being maintained in accordance with an approved maintenance system and complying with all applicable governmental directives and manufacturer requirements. In addition, for an engine to be available for service, all records, logs, licenses and documentation relating to maintenance and operations of the engine must be maintained in accordance with governmental and manufacturer specifications. 9 Our leases make the lessees primarily responsible for maintaining the engines, keeping related records and complying with governmental directives and manufacturer requirements. Over time, certain lessees have experienced and may experience in the future, difficulties in meeting their maintenance and recordkeeping obligations under our leases. Our ability to determine the condition of the engines and whether the lessees are properly maintaining our engines is generally limited to the lessees’ reporting of monthly usage and any maintenance performed, confirmed by periodic inspections performed by us and third-parties. A lessee’s failure to meet its maintenance or recordkeeping obligations under a lease could result in: • a grounding of the related engine; • a repossession which would likely cause us to incur additional, and potentially substantial, maintenance, modification or other costs in restoring the engine to an acceptable maintenance condition, offset by any maintenance reserves or payments received by us; • a need to incur additional costs and devote resources to recreate the records prior to the sale or lease of the engine; • the loss of lease revenue while we recreate records; and • a lower lease rate and/or shorter lease term under any new lease entered into by us following the repossession of the engine. Any of these events may adversely affect the value of the engine, unless and until remedied, and reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. Should an engine become damaged during a lease and we are unable to recover from the lessee or insurance, we may incur a loss. Our operating results vary and comparisons to results for preceding periods may not be meaningful. Due to a number of factors, including the risks described above, our operating results may fluctuate. These fluctuations may also be caused by: • the timing and amount of purchases and sales of engines; • the termination or announced termination of production of particular aircraft and engine types; • the retirement or announced retirement of particular aircraft models by commercial aircraft operators; • the operating history of any particular engine or engine model; and • the length of our operating leases. These risks may reduce our engine utilization rates, lease margins, proceeds from engine sales, and result in higher legal, technical, maintenance, storage and insurance costs related to repossession and costs of engines being off-lease. As a result of the foregoing and other factors, the availability of engines for lease or sale periodically experiences cycles of oversupply and undersupply of given engine models. The incidence of an oversupply of engines may produce substantial decreases in engine lease rates, the appraised and resale value of engines and increase the time and costs incurred to lease or sell engines. We anticipate that fluctuations from period to period will continue in the future. As a result, we believe that comparisons to results for preceding periods may not be meaningful and that results of prior periods should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Our customers face intense competition and some carriers are in troubled financial condition. The commercial aviation industry deteriorated sharply in 2001 and 2002 as a result of many factors, including the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the related slowdown in economic activity. Since that time, we believe that airline traffic has recovered in most of the world. Nevertheless, some commercial aircraft operators are experiencing significant cash flow shortages, particularly with recent increases in fuel costs. We cannot give assurance that delinquencies and defaults on our leases will not increase when the market for engine operating leases experiences its next cyclical downturn. Certain lessees may be significantly delinquent in their rental payments and may default on their lease obligations. As of December 31, 2005, we had an aggregate of approximately $850,000 in lease rent and $980,000 in maintenance reserves payments more than 30 days past due. Our inability to collect receivables or to repossess engines or other leased equipment in the event of a default by a lessee could have a material adverse effect on us. 10 Various airlines have filed for bankruptcy, and a number of such airlines have ceased operations. In connection with airline bankruptcies, carriers often announce aircraft disposal plans which could affect the market for spare aircraft engines and the values of spare engines if the engines are removed from the aircraft and separately placed in the market. Two of our lessees, Varig and its subsidiary Rio Sul, which lease a total of nine engines, have recently suspended payments to their lessors. These airlines filed for protection from their creditors in Brazil and the United States in June 2005. They owed us rent of approximately $0.7 million on the date they filed for protection, all of which was covered by security deposits or the $240,000 bad debt allowance established in the third quarter of 2005. They remained current on their post-petition obligations to us through February 2006. They currently owe $0.4 million in rent. We hold security deposits in excess of that amount against these claims. A notice of default and demand for return of the engines has been issued. We are unable to predict the future viability of these lessees. We also lease aircraft to Hawaii Island Air, Inc. (“Island Air”), which operates exclusively in Hawaii, a challenging airline market in which two carriers entered bankruptcy in 2003 and 2004. Aloha Airlines, a guarantor of four of our aircraft leased to Island Air filed for bankruptcy in 2004. With its emergence from Chapter 11 in February 2006 Aloha Airlines’ obligations under its guaranty were discharged. The five leases are still performing and the lessee is current on all obligations and no provision has been made for any loss. We and our customers operate in a highly regulated industry and changes in laws or regulations may adversely affect our ability to lease or sell our engines. Licenses and consents We and our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. A number of our leases require specific governmental or regulatory licenses, consents or approvals. These include consents for certain payments under the leases and for the export, import or re-export of our engines. Consents needed in connection with future leasing or sale of our engines may not be received timely or have economically feasible terms. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to lease or sell engines. The U.S. Department of Commerce, or the “Commerce Department,” regulates exports. We are subject to the Commerce Department’s and the U.S. Department of State’s regulations with respect to the lease and sale of engines and aircraft to foreign entities and the export of related parts. These Departments may, in some cases, require us to obtain export licenses for engines exported to foreign countries. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security, through the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, enforces regulations related to the import of engines and aircraft into the United States for maintenance or lease and imports of parts for installation on our engines and aircraft. We are prohibited from doing business with persons designated by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or “OFAC,” on its “Specially Designated Nationals List,” and must monitor our operations and existing and potential lessees for compliance with OFAC’s rules. Civil aviation regulation Users of engines are subject to general civil aviation authorities, including the FAA and Joint Aviation Authorities in Europe, who regulate the maintenance of engines and impose airworthiness directives. Airworthiness directives typically set forth special maintenance actions or modifications to certain engine types or series of specific engines that must be implemented for the engine to remain in service. Also, airworthiness directives may require the lessee to make more frequent inspections of an engine or particular engine parts. Each lessee of an engine generally is responsible for complying with all airworthiness directives. However, if the engine is off lease, we may be forced to bear the cost of compliance with such airworthiness directives, and if the engine is leased, subject to the terms of the lease, if any, we may be forced to share the cost of compliance. Environmental regulation Governmental regulations of noise and emissions levels may be applicable where the related airframe is registered, and where the aircraft is operated. For example, jurisdictions throughout the world have adopted noise regulations which require all aircraft to comply with Stage III noise requirements. In addition to the current Stage III compliance requirements, the United States and the International Civil Aviation Organization, or “ICAO,” have adopted a new, more stringent set of “Stage IV” standards for noise levels which will apply to engines manufactured or certified beginning in 2006. At this time, the United States regulations would not require any phase-out of aircraft that qualify only for Stage III compliance, but the European Union has established a framework for the imposition of operating limitations on non-Stage IV aircraft. These regulations could limit the economic life of our engines or reduce their value, could limit our ability to lease or sell the non-compliant engines or, if engine modifications are permitted, require us to make significant additional investments in the engines to make them compliant. The United States and other jurisdictions are beginning to impose more stringent limits on the emission of nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide emissions from engines, consistent with ICAO standards. These limits generally apply only to engines manufactured after 1999. Concerns over global warming could result in more stringent limitations on the operation of older, non-compliant engines. 11 Any change to current tax laws or accounting principles making operating lease financing less attractive could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our leasing activities generate significant depreciation, which has contributed to our net operating loss. We also have benefited from the Extraterritorial Income Exclusion which significantly reduced our effective tax rate. As a result of the October 2004 enactment of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, this benefit is being phased out completely by the end of 2006 and our effective tax rate is expected to increase to the statutory rate. Changes in tax laws or accounting principles that affect our recognition of revenues or expenses could have a material adverse affect on our business. In addition, our lessees enjoy favorable accounting and tax treatment by using operating leases. Changes in tax laws or accounting principles that make operating leases less attractive to our lessees could have a material adverse affect on demand for our leases and on our business. Allegations that our aircraft, engines or parts have caused bodily injury or property damage expose us to liability claims. We are exposed to potential liability claims if the use of our aircraft, engines or parts is alleged to have caused bodily injury or property damage. Our leases require our lessees to indemnify us against these claims and to carry insurance customary in the air transportation industry, including liability, property damage and hull all risks insurance on our engines and on our aircraft at agreed upon levels. We can give no assurance that one or more catastrophic events will not exceed insurance coverage limits or that lessees’ insurance will cover all claims that may be asserted against us. Any insurance coverage deficiency or default by lessees under their indemnification or insurance obligations may reduce our recovery of losses upon an event of loss. We may not be adequately covered by insurance. While we maintain contingent insurance covering losses not covered by our lessees’ insurance, such coverage may not be available in circumstances where the lessee’s insurance coverage is insufficient. In addition, if a lessee is not obligated to maintain sufficient insurance, we may incur the costs of additional insurance coverage during the related lease. We are required under certain of our debt facilities to obtain political risk insurance for leases to lessees in specified jurisdictions. We can give no assurance that such insurance will be available at commercially reasonable rates, if at all. Currently, the U.S. government is still offering war risk insurance to U.S.-certificated airlines; however, most foreign governments have ceased this practice, forcing non-U.S. airlines back into the commercial insurance market for this coverage. It is unknown how long the U.S. government will continue to offer war risk insurance and whether U.S.-certificated airlines could obtain war risk insurance in the commercial markets on acceptable terms and conditions. We and our lenders generally are named as an additional insureds on liability insurance policies carried by our lessees and are usually the loss payees for damage to the engines. We have not experienced any significant aviation-related claims or any product liability claims related to our engines or spare parts that were not insured. However, an uninsured or partially insured claim, or a claim for which third-party indemnification is not available, could have a material adverse effect upon us. A loss of an aircraft where we lease the airframe, an engine or spare parts could result in significant monetary claims. RISKS RELATING TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE Our inability to obtain sufficient capital would constrain our ability to grow our portfolio and to increase our revenues. Our business is capital intensive and highly leveraged. Accordingly, our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and maintain our operations depends on the availability and cost of debt and equity capital. Additionally, our ability to borrow against our portfolio of engines is dependent, in part, on the appraised value of our engines. If the appraised value of our engines declines, we may be required to reduce the principal outstanding under certain of our debt facilities. Availability under such debt facilities may also be reduced, at least temporarily, as a result of such appraisal declines. We can give no assurance that the capital we need will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain sufficient capital, or to renew or expand our credit facilities could result in increased funding costs and would limit our ability to: • meet the terms and maturities of our existing and future debt facilities; • add new equipment to our portfolio; • fund our working capital needs and maintain adequate liquidity; and • finance other growth initiatives. 12 Our financing facilities impose restrictions on our operations. We have, and expect to continue to have, various credit and financing arrangements with third parties. These financing arrangements are secured by all or substantially all of our assets. Our existing credit and financing arrangements require us to meet certain financial condition and performance tests. Our revolving credit facility prohibits our declaring or paying dividends on shares of any class or series of our capital stock if an event of default under such facilities has or will occur and remains uncured. The agreements governing our debt, including the issuance of notes by WEST, also include restrictive financial covenants. A breach of those and other covenants could, unless waived or amended by our creditors, result in a cross-default to other indebtedness and an acceleration of all or substantially all of our debt. We have obtained such amendments and waivers to our financing agreements in the past, but we cannot provide any assurance that we will receive such amendments or waivers in the future if we request them. If our outstanding debt is accelerated at any time, we likely would have little or no cash or other assets available after payment of our debts, which could cause the value or market price of our outstanding equity securities to decline significantly and we would have few, if any, assets available for distributions to our equity holders in liquidation. We are exposed to interest rate risk on our engine leases, which could have a negative impact on our margins. We are affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Our lease rates are generally fixed, but nearly all our debt bears variable rate interest based on one-month LIBOR, so changes in interest rates directly affect our lease margins. We seek to reduce our interest rate volatility and uncertainty through hedging with interest rate derivative contracts with respect to a portion of our debt. Our lease margins, as well as our earnings and cash flows may be adversely affected by increases in interest rates, to the extent we do not have hedges or other derivatives in place or if our hedges or other derivatives do not mitigate our interest rate exposure from an economic standpoint. We would be adversely affected by increasing interest rates. As reported by British Bankers’ Association, the one-month LIBOR has increased from approximately 1.12% on December 31, 2003, to approximately 4.39% on December 31, 2005. Our maintenance reserves may be inadequate or lessees may default on their obligations to perform maintenance, which could increase our expenses. Under most of our engine leases, the lessee makes monthly maintenance reserve payments to us based on the engine’s usage and management’s estimate of maintenance costs. The payments due are recorded as a liability to potentially reimburse the lessee and they serve as security for the lessee’s obligation to perform specified scheduled maintenance. Maintenance reserve payments on the WEST engines are held in related engine reserve restricted cash accounts. Generally the lessee is responsible for all scheduled maintenance costs, even if they exceed the amounts of maintenance reserves paid. Approximately 39 of our leases comprising 38.8% of the net book value of our engines at December 31, 2005 do not provide for any monthly maintenance reserve payments to be made by lessees, and we can give no assurance that future leases of the engines will require maintenance reserves. In some cases, including engine repossessions, we may decide to pay for maintenance work pursuant to the lease terms if the maintenance reserves are insufficient to cover maintenance costs. We can give no assurance that our operating cash flows and available liquidity reserves, including the amounts held in the engine reserve restricted cash accounts, will be sufficient to fund necessary engine maintenance. Actual maintenance reserve payments by lessees and other cash that we receive may be significantly less than projected as a result of numerous factors, including defaults by lessees. Furthermore, we can provide no assurance that lessees will meet their obligations to make maintenance reserve payments or perform required scheduled maintenance or, to the extent that maintenance reserve payments are insufficient to cover the cost of a particular maintenance event, pay the excess cost. Our engine values and lease rates, which are dependent on the status of the types of aircraft on which engines are installed, and other factors, could decline. The value of a particular model of engine depends heavily on of the types of aircraft on which it may be installed and the supply of available engines. We believe values of engines tend to be relatively stable so long as there is sufficient demand for the host aircraft. However, we believe the value of an engine begins to decline rapidly once the host aircraft begins to be retired from service and/or used for spare parts in significant numbers. Certain types of our engines are used in significant numbers by commercial aircraft operators that are currently experiencing financial difficulties. If such operators were to go into liquidation or similar proceedings, the resulting over-supply of engines from these operators could have an adverse effect on the demand for the affected spare engines and the values of such engines. We have risks in managing our portfolio of engines to meet customer needs. The relatively long life cycles of aircraft and jet engines can be shortened by world events, government regulation or customer preferences. We seek to manage these risks by trying to anticipate demand for particular engine types, maintaining a portfolio mix of engines that we believe is diversified and that will have long-term value and will be sought by lessees in the global market for jet engines, and by selling engines that we expect will experience obsolescence or declining usefulness in the foreseeable future. The WEST securitization facility limits our sale of the engines in that facility during any 12 month period to 10% of the “average aggregate adjusted borrowing value” of the engines during any 12 month period, which may inhibit engine sales that we otherwise believe may be desirable. We can give no assurance that we can successfully manage our engine portfolio to reduce these risks. 13 Upon termination of a lease, we may be unable to enter into new leases or sell the engine on acceptable terms. We own the engines that we lease to customers and bear the risk of not recovering our entire investment through leasing and selling the engines. Upon termination of a lease, we seek to enter a new lease or to sell the engine. We also selectively sell engines on an opportunistic basis. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to find, in a timely manner, a lessee for our engines coming off-lease. If we do find a lessee, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory lease rates and terms (including maintenance and redelivery conditions) or rates and terms comparable to our current leases, and we can give no assurance that the creditworthiness of any future lessee will be equal to or better than that of the existing lessees of our engines. Because the terms of engine leases may be less than 12 months, we may frequently need to remarket engines. We face the risk that we may not be able to keep the engines on lease consistently. We may not be able to repossess an engine when the lessee defaults, and even if we are able to repossess the engine, we may have to expend significant funds in the repossession and leasing of the engine. When a lessee defaults we typically seek to terminate the lease and repossess the engines. If a defaulting lessee contests the termination and repossession or is under court protection, enforcement of our rights under the lease may be difficult, expensive and time-consuming. We may not realize any practical benefits from our legal rights and we may need to obtain consents to export the engine. As a result, the relevant engine may be off-lease or not producing revenue for a prolonged period. In addition, we will incur direct costs associated with repossessing our engine. These costs may include legal and similar costs, the direct costs of transporting, storing and insuring the engine, and costs associated with necessary maintenance and recordkeeping to make the engine available for lease or sale. During this time, we will realize no revenue from the leased engine, and we will continue to be obligated to pay our debt financing the engine. If an engine is installed on an airframe, the airframe may be owned by an aircraft lessor or other third party. Our ability to recover engines installed on airframes may depend on the cooperation of the airframe owner. We are subject to the risks and costs of aircraft maintenance and obsolescence on the aircraft that we own. We currently own five DeHaviland DHC-8-100 turboprop aircraft and interests through WOLF in two Airbus A340-313 aircraft. We may buy other aircraft or interests in aircraft in the future primarily to seek opportunities to realize value from the engines. Among other risks described in this Annual Report, the following risks apply when we lease or sell aircraft: • we will be subject to the greater maintenance risks and risks of declines in value that apply to aircraft as opposed to engines, as well as the potentially greater risks of leasing or selling aircraft; • intense competition among manufacturers, lessors, and sellers may, among other things, adversely affect the demand for, lease rates and residual values of our aircraft; • our aircraft lessees are aircraft operators engaged in economically sensitive, highly cyclical and competitive businesses and our results of operations from aircraft leasing depend, in part, on their financial strength (for more details, see the risk factor entitled “We are affected by the risks faced by commercial aircraft operators and MROs because they are our customers” above); • our aircraft lessees may encounter significant financial difficulties, which could result in our agreeing to amend our leases with the customer to, among other things, defer or forgive rent payments or extend lease terms as an alternative to repossession; • our aircraft lessees may file for bankruptcy which could result in us incurring greater losses with respect to aircraft than with respect to engines; and • aircraft technology is constantly improving and, as a result, aircraft of a particular model and type tend to become obsolete and less in demand over time, when newer, more advanced and efficient aircraft become available. Our inability to maintain sufficient liquidity could limit our operational flexibility and also impact our ability to make payments on our obligations as they come due. In addition to being capital intensive and highly leveraged, our business also requires that we maintain sufficient liquidity to enable us to contribute the non-financed portion of engine purchases as well as to service our payment obligations to our creditors as they become due despite the fact that the timing and amounts of payments under our leases do not match the timing under our debt service obligations. Our restricted cash is generally unavailable for general corporate purposes. Accordingly, our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and maintain our operations depends on our ability to continue to maintain sufficient liquidity, cash and available 14 credit under our credit facilities. Our liquidity could be adversely impacted if we are subjected to one or more of the following: a significant decline in lease revenues, a material increase in interest expense that is not matched by a corresponding increase in lease rates, a significant increase in operating expenses, or a reduction in our available credit under our credit facilities. If we do not maintain sufficient liquidity, our ability to meet our payment obligations to creditors or to borrow additional funds could become impaired as could our ability to make dividend payments or other distributions to our equity holders. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” NUMEROUS FACTORS MAY AFFECT THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND OUR PREFERRED STOCK. The trading price of our common stock and our Series A Preferred Stock may fluctuate due to many factors, including: • the risks relating to our business described in this Annual Report; • sales of our securities by a few stockholders or even a single significant stockholder; • general economic conditions; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • our financial condition, performance and prospects; • changes in financial estimates by us; • the level, direction and volatility of interest rates and expectations of changes in rates; • the market for securities similar to our common stock and our Series A Preferred Stock; and • changes in our capital structure, including additional issuances by us of debt or equity securities. In addition, the U.S. stock markets have experienced price and volume volatility that has affected many companies’ stock prices, often for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. RISKS RELATING TO OUR FOREIGN OPERATIONS A substantial portion of our lease revenue comes from foreign customers, subjecting us to divergent regulatory requirements. For the year ended December 31, 2005, 84% of our lease revenue was generated by leases to foreign customers. Such international leases present risks to us because certain foreign laws, regulations and judicial procedures may not be as protective of lessor rights as those which apply in the United States. We are also subject to risks of foreign laws that affect the timing and access to courts and may limit our remedies when collecting lease payments and recovering assets. None of our leased engines have been expropriated; however, we can give no assurance that political instability abroad and changes in the policies of foreign nations will not present expropriation risks in the future that are not covered by insurance. Our leases require payments in U.S. dollars but many of our customers operate in other currencies; if foreign currencies devalue against the U.S. dollar, our lessees may be unable to make their payments to us. All of our current leases require that payments be made in U.S. dollars. If the currency that our lessees typically use in operating their businesses devalues against the U.S. dollar, the lessees could encounter difficulties in making payments in U.S. dollars. Furthermore, many foreign countries have currency and exchange laws regulating international payments that may impede or prevent payments from being paid to us in U.S. dollars. Future leases may provide for payments to be made in Euros or other foreign currencies. Any change in the currency exchange rate that reduces the amount of U.S. dollars obtained by us upon conversion of future lease payments denominated in Euros or other foreign currencies, may, if not appropriately hedged by us, have a material adverse effect on us and increase the volatility of our earnings. If payments on our leases are made in foreign currency, our risks and hedging costs will increase. We operate globally and are affected by our customers’ local and regional economic and other risks. We believe that our customers’ growth and financial condition are driven by economic growth in their service areas. The largest portion of our lease revenues come from Europe. European airline operations are among the most heavily regulated in the world. At the same time, new low-cost carriers have exerted substantial competitive and financial pressure on major European airlines. Low-cost carriers are having similar effects in North America and elsewhere. 15 Our operations may also be affected by foreign currency restrictions, local currency valuations and interest rates, as well as political or economic instability in the areas where we have customers. We may not be able to enforce our rights as a creditor if a lessee files for bankruptcy outside of the United States. When a debtor seeks protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code, creditors are automatically stayed from enforcing their rights. In the case of United States-certificated airlines, Section 1110 of the Bankruptcy Code provides certain relief to lessors of aircraft equipment. Section 1110 has been the subject of significant litigation and we can give no assurance that Section 1110 will protect our investment in an aircraft or engines in the event of a lessee’s bankruptcy. In addition, Section 1110 does not apply to lessees located outside of the United States and applicable foreign laws may not provide comparable protection. Liens on our engines could exceed the value of the engines, which could negatively affect our ability to repossess, lease or sell a particular engine. Liens that secure the payment of repairers’ charges or other liens may, depending on the jurisdiction, attach to the engines. Engines also may be installed on airframes to which liens unrelated to the engines have attached. The liens may secure substantial sums that may, in certain jurisdictions or for limited types of liens, exceed the value of the particular engine to which the liens have attached. In some jurisdictions, a lien may give the holder the right to detain or, in limited cases, sell or cause the forfeiture of the engine. Such liens may have priority over our interest as well as our creditors’ interest in the engines, either because they have such priority under applicable local law or because our creditors’ security interests are not filed in jurisdictions outside the United States. These liens and lien holders could impair our ability to repossess and lease or sell the engines. We cannot give assurance that our lessees will comply with their obligations to discharge third party liens on our engines. If they do not, we may, in the future, find it necessary to pay the claims secured by such liens to repossess the engines. In certain countries, an engine affixed to an aircraft may become an accession to the aircraft and we may not be able to exercise our ownership rights over the engine. In some jurisdictions, an engine affixed to an aircraft may become an accession to the aircraft, so that the ownership rights of the owner of the aircraft supersede the ownership rights of the owner of the engine. If an aircraft is security for the owner’s obligations to a third-party, the security interest in the aircraft may supersede our rights as owner of the engine. This legal principle could limit our ability to repossess an engine in the event of a lease default while the aircraft with the engine installed remains in such a jurisdiction. We may suffer a loss if we are not able to repossess engines leased to lessees in these jurisdictions. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SMALL SIZE AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Intense competition in our industry, particularly with major companies with substantially greater financial, personnel, marketing and other resources, could cause our revenues and business to suffer. The engine leasing industry is highly competitive and global. Our primary competitors include GE Engine Leasing, Shannon Engine Support, Pratt &Whitney, Rolls-Royce Partners Finance and Engine Lease Finance. Our primary competitors generally have significantly greater financial, personnel and other resources, and a physical presence in more locations, than we do. In addition, competing engine lessors may have lower costs of capital and may provide financial or technical services or other inducements to customers, including the ability to sell or lease aircraft or provide other forms of financing that we do not provide. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to compete effectively or that competitive pressures will not adversely affect us. There is no organized market for the spare engines we purchase. Typically, we purchase engines from commercial aircraft operators, engine manufacturers, MROs and other suppliers. We rely on our representatives, advertisements and reputation to generate opportunities to purchase and sell engines. The market for purchasing engine portfolios is highly competitive, generally involving an auction bidding process. We can give no assurance that engines will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms and in the types and quantities we seek consistent with the diversification requirements of our debt facilities and our portfolio diversification goals. Substantially all of our assets are pledged to our creditors. Because of WEST’s bankruptcy remote status, substantially all of the consolidated entity’s assets are pledged to secure its obligations to its creditors. WEST’s ability to make distributions and pay dividends to us is subject to the prior payments of its debt and other obligations and WEST’s maintenance of adequate reserves and capital. Our rights, and the rights of our creditors, to participate in any distribution of assets of WEST upon its liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or winding up therefore will be subject to the prior claims of WEST’s creditors, except to the extent that we or another subsidiary is recognized as a creditor of WEST, in which case our claims, as an unsecured creditor, would rank equally with the claims of other unsecured creditors and may be subordinated to the claims of any creditor of WEST that has a judgment or perfected lien against it or its assets. In the future we may create additional subsidiaries whose ability to make distributions and pay dividends to us will be likewise restricted. 16 We may be unable to manage the expansion of our operations. We can give no assurance that we will be able to manage effectively the potential expansion of our operations, or that if we are successful expanding our operations that our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations, in which event our business, financial condition, results and cash flows could be adversely affected. Any acquisition or expansion involves various risks, which may include some or all of the following: • incurring or assuming additional debt; • diversion of management’s time and attention from ongoing business operations; • future charges to earnings related to the possible impairment of goodwill and the write down of other intangible assets; • risks of unknown or contingent liabilities; • difficulties in the assimilation of operations, services, products and personnel; • unanticipated costs and delays; • the risk that the acquired business does not perform consistently with our growth and profitability expectations; • the risk that growth will strain our infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures; and • potential loss of key employees and customers. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on us. Compliance with the regulatory requirements imposed on us as a public company results in significant costs that will likely have an adverse effect on our results. As a public company, we are subject to various regulatory requirements including, but not limited to, compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with these regulations results in significant additional costs to us both directly, through increased audit and consulting fees, and indirectly, through the time required by our small staff to address the regulations. We must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Such compliance will require us to incur considerable costs on audit and consulting fees and require significant management time that will adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We are effectively controlled by one principal stockholder, who has the power to contest the outcome of most matters submitted to the stockholders for approval and to affect our stock prices adversely if he were to sell substantial amounts of his common stock. As of December 31, 2005, our principal stockholder, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Charles F. Willis, IV, beneficially owned or had the ability to direct the voting of 3,459,531 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 36% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Willis effectively controls us and has the power to contest the outcome of substantially all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of the board of directors. In addition, future sales by Mr. Willis of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the potential for such sales, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and possibly other classes or series of our stock such as our Series A Preferred Stock. Our business might suffer if we were to lose the services of certain key employees. Our business operations depend upon our key employees, including our executive officers. Loss of any of these employees, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business as our key employees have knowledge of our industry and customers and would be difficult to replace. We maintain key man life insurance of $5.0 million on Mr. Willis, but such amount is unlikely to adequately compensate us for the loss of his services. We are the servicer and administrative agent for the WEST facility and our cash flows would be materially and adversely affected if we were removed from these positions. 17 We are the servicer and administrative agent with respect to engines in the WEST facility. We receive annual fees of 11.5% as servicer and 2.0% as administrative agent of the aggregate net rents actually received by WEST on its engines. We may be removed as servicer and administrative agent by the affirmative vote of a requisite number of holders of WEST facility notes upon the occurrence of certain specified events. If we are removed, our expenses would increase since our consolidated subsidiary, WEST, would have to hire an outside provider to replace the servicer and administrative agent functions, and we would be materially and adversely affected. Consequently, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Provisions in Delaware law and our charter and bylaws might prevent or delay a change of control. Certain provisions of law, our amended certificate of incorporation, bylaws and amended rights agreement could make the following more difficult: (1) an acquisition of us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, and (2) the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Our board of directors has authorized the issuance of shares of Series I Preferred Stock pursuant to our amended rights agreement, by and between us and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as rights agent. The rights agreement could make it more difficult to proceed with and tend to discourage a merger, tender offer or proxy contest. Our amended certificate of incorporation also provides that stockholder action can be taken only at an annual or special meeting of stockholders and may not be taken by written consent and, in certain circumstances relating to acquisitions or other changes in control, requires an 80% supermajority vote of all outstanding shares of our common stock. Our bylaws also limit the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice. 