ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward-Looking Statements And Risk Factors. The Company cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or made by the Company, its management or spokespeople involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, many of which may be beyond the Company’s control. Words such as “estimate,” “project,” “plan,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements. The following factors could affect the Company’s financial performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements: • effects of general economic and financial conditions which impact consumer behavior and spending and may exacerbate some of the risks noted below including consumer demand, strain on available resources, international growth strategy, store growth, interruption of the flow of merchandise from key vendors and manufacturers and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences, including changes as a result of instability in economic conditions, which could affect the reputation and appeal of the Company’s brands; • the impact of competition and pricing pressures; • inability to achieve acceptable operating profits from the execution of the Company’s international expansion as a result of many factors, including the inability to successfully penetrate new markets and the potential strain on resources caused by the expansion; • effects of changes in credit and lending market conditions; • loss of services of skilled senior executive officers and/or inadequate succession planning for key positions; 6 Table of Contents • ability to hire, train and retain qualified associates; • ability to develop innovative, high-quality new merchandise in response to changing fashion trends; • availability and market prices of key raw materials; • interruption of the flow of merchandise from key vendors and manufacturers and the flow of merchandise to and from distributors; • ability of manufacturers to comply with applicable laws and regulations and ethical business practices; • availability of suitable store locations under appropriate terms; • currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; • effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically, and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; • unseasonable weather conditions affecting consumer preferences; • disruptive weather conditions affecting consumers’ ability to shop; • effect of litigation or adversary proceeding exposure potentially exceeding expectations; and • potential disruption of the Company’s business due to the occurrence of, or fear of, a health pandemic. The following sets forth a description of certain risk factors that the Company believes may be relevant to an understanding of the Company and its business. These risk factors, in addition to the factors set forth above, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the Company’s forward-looking statements. General Economic and Financial Conditions Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Liquidity. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including the Company’s merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. The Company’s performance is subject to factors that affect worldwide economic conditions including employment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on declines in the financial, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence, value of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies and other macroeconomic factors. Over the past several years, the combination of these factors has caused consumer spending to deteriorate significantly and may cause levels of spending to remain depressed for the foreseeable future. These factors may cause consumers to purchase products from lower priced competitors or to defer purchases of apparel and personal care products altogether. The economic uncertainty could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations and its liquidity and capital resources. It could also impact the Company’s ability to fund its growth and/or result in the Company becoming reliant on external financing, the availability of which may be uncertain. In addition, the economic environment may exacerbate some of the risks noted below, including consumer demand, strain on available resources, international growth strategy, store growth, interruption of the flow of merchandise from key vendors and manufacturers, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The risks could be exacerbated individually or collectively. 7 Table of Contents The Loss of the Services of Skilled Senior Executive Officers Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business. The Company’s senior executive officers closely supervise all aspects of its business — in particular, the design of its merchandise and the operation of its stores. The Company’s senior executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in the retail business and have made significant contributions to the growth and success of the Company’s brands. If the Company were to lose the benefit of their involvement, in particular the services of any one or more of Michael S. Jeffries, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Diane Chang, Executive Vice President — Sourcing, Leslee K. Herro, Executive Vice President — Planning and Allocation, Jonathan E. Ramsden, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and David S. Cupps, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, its business could be adversely affected. Competition for such senior executive officers is intense, and the Company cannot be sure it will be able to attract, retain and develop a sufficient number of qualified senior executive officers in future periods. Equity-Based Compensation Awarded Under the Employment Agreement with the Company’s Chief Executive Officer Could Adversely Impact the Company’s Cash Flows, Financial Position or Results of Operations and Could Have a Dilutive Effect on the Company’s Outstanding Common Stock. Under the Employment Agreement, entered into as of December 19, 2008, between the Company and Michael S. Jeffries, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (the “Jeffries Employment Agreement”), Mr. Jeffries received grants (the “Retention Grants”) of stock appreciation rights. In addition to the Retention Grants, Mr. Jeffries is also eligible to receive two equity-based grants during each fiscal year of the term of the Jeffries Employment Agreement starting with Fiscal 2009 (the “Semi-Annual Grant”). If a Semi-Annual Grant is earned, it will be awarded within 75 days following the end of the Company’s second quarter or fiscal year, as applicable, subject to Mr. Jeffries’ continuous employment with the Company (and, with respect to the final Semi-Annual Grant, continued service on the Company’s Board of Directors) through the applicable grant date. The value of the Semi-Annual Grants are uncertain and dependent on future market price of the Company’s Common Stock and the financial performance of the Company. In connection with the Semi-Annual Grants contemplated by the Jeffries Employment Agreement, the related compensation expense could significantly impact the Company’s results of operations. Further, the significant number of shares of Common Stock which could be issued upon exercise and/or vesting of the Retention Grant and the Semi-Annual Grants is uncertain and dependent on the future market price of the Company’s Common Stock and the financial performance of the Company, and would, if issued, have a dilutive effect with respect to the Company’s outstanding shares of Common Stock, which may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. Depending on the number of shares of Common Stock which could be issued under the Retention Grant and Semi-Annual Grants, the Company may deem it necessary or appropriate to seek shareholder approval of additional long-term incentive compensation plans in order to be able to settle the awards in Common Stock. In the event that there are not sufficient shares of Common Stock available to be issued under the Company’s 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “2007 LTIP”), or under a successor or replacement plan at the time these equity-based awards are ultimately settled, the Company will be required to settle some portion of the awards in cash, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s cash flow from operations, financial position, results of operations. Furthermore, the awards may not be deductible pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). In addition, under applicable accounting rules, if the Company’s stock price increases to a point where, as of any measurement date, the Company would be unable to settle outstanding equity-based awards in shares of Common Stock from its existing plans, the Company will be required to 8 Table of Contents classify and account for all or a portion of the equity-based awards as liabilities. This could further adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The Failure to Anticipate, Identify and Respond to Changing Consumer Preferences and Fashion Trends in a Timely Manner Could Cause the Company’s Profitability to Decline. The Company’s success largely depends on its ability to anticipate and gauge the fashion preferences of its customers and provide merchandise that satisfies constantly shifting demands in a timely manner. The merchandise must appeal to each brand’s corresponding target market of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. Because the Company enters into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season, it is vulnerable to changes in consumer preference and demand, pricing shifts, and the sub-optimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to anticipate consumer demands successfully in the future. To the extent that the Company fails to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends, its sales will be adversely affected. Inventory levels for certain merchandise styles no longer considered to be “on trend” may increase, leading to higher markdowns to reduce excess inventory or increases in inventory valuation reserves. A distressed economic and retail environment, in which many of the Company’s competitors are engaging in aggressive promotional activities, increases the importance of reacting appropriately to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends. Each of these could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s Market Share may be Adversely Impacted at any Time by a Significant Number of Competitors. The sale of apparel and personal care products through brick-and-mortar stores and direct-to-consumer channels is a highly competitive business with numerous participants, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, as well as regional and national department stores. The Company faces a variety of competitive challenges, including: • maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing its products to consumers in several diverse demographic markets; • sourcing merchandise efficiently; and • countering the aggressive promotional activities of many of the Company’s competitors without diminishing the aspirational nature of the Company’s brands and brand equity. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future. The Company’s International Expansion Plan is Dependent on a Number of Factors, any of Which Could Delay or Prevent Successful Penetration into New Markets and Strain its Resources. As the Company expands internationally, it may incur significant costs related to starting up and maintaining foreign operations. Costs may include, but are not limited to, obtaining prime locations for stores, setting up foreign offices and DCs, as well as hiring experienced management. The Company may be unable to open and operate new stores successfully, and its growth will be limited, unless it can: • identify suitable markets and sites for store locations; • negotiate acceptable lease terms; 9 Table of Contents • hire, train and retain competent store personnel; • gain acceptance from foreign customers; • foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise; • manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; • expand infrastructure to accommodate growth; • generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund its expansion plan; • manage foreign currency exchange risks effectively; and • achieve acceptable operating margins from new stores. In addition, the Company’s international expansion plan will place increased demands on its operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands may cause the Company to operate its business less efficiently, which in turn could cause deterioration in the performance of its existing stores. Furthermore, the Company’s ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. The Company’s international expansion strategy and success could also be adversely impacted by the global economy. The Company’s Growth Strategy Relies on the Addition of New Stores, Which May Strain the Company’s Resources and Adversely Impact Current Store Performance. The Company’s growth strategy largely depends on the opening of new stores, particularly internationally; and remodeling existing stores in a timely manner and operating them profitably. Additional factors required for successful implementation of the Company’s growth strategy include, but are not limited to: obtaining desirable prime store locations; negotiating acceptable leases; completing projects on budget; supplying proper levels of merchandise; and successfully hiring and training store managers and sales associates. Additionally, the Company’s growth strategy may place increased demands on the Company’s operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could cause the Company to operate less efficiently. Furthermore, there is a possibility new stores opening in existing markets may have an adverse effect on previously existing stores in such markets. Failure to properly implement the Company’s growth strategy could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company May Incur Costs Related to Store Closures. The Company may incur costs associated with store closures resulting from, among other things, lease termination agreements associated with closing stores prior to the store’s lease expiration date. These costs could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Interruption of the Flow of Merchandise from Key Vendors and International Manufacturers Could Disrupt the Company’s Supply Chain. The Company purchases the majority of its merchandise outside of the U.S. through arrangements with approximately 209 vendors which include 305 foreign manufacturers located throughout the world, primarily 10 Table of Contents in Asia and Central and South America. In addition, many of the Company’s domestic manufacturers maintain production facilities overseas. Political, social or economic instability in Asia, Central or South America, or in other regions in which the Company’s manufacturers are located, could cause disruptions in trade, including exports to the U.S. Other events that could also cause disruptions to exports to the U.S. include: • the imposition of additional trade law provisions or regulations; • the imposition of additional duties, tariffs and other charges on imports and exports; • quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements; • foreign currency fluctuations; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; • the potential of manufacturer financial instability, inability to access needed liquidity or bankruptcy; and • significant labor disputes, such as dock strikes. In addition, the Company cannot predict whether the countries in which its merchandise is manufactured, or may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to new or additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including new or increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes and work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to the Company and adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company Does not Own or Operate any Manufacturing Facilities and Therefore Depends Upon Independent Third Parties for the Manufacture of all its Merchandise. The Company does not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. As a result, the continued success of the Company’s operations is tied to its timely receipt of quality merchandise from third-party manufacturers. A manufacturer’s inability to ship orders in a timely manner or meet the Company’s quality standards could cause delays in responding to consumer demands and negatively affect consumer confidence in the quality and value of the Company’s brands or negatively impact the Company’s competitive position, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, the Company is susceptible to increases in sourcing costs from manufacturers which the Company may not be able to pass on to the customer and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, while the Company utilizes third-party compliance auditors to visit and monitor the operations of the Company’s manufacturers, the Company does not have control of the independent manufacturers or their labor practices. A violation of labor laws or other laws, including consumer and product safety laws, by the Company or its manufacturers, could adversely affect the Company’s reputation and sales. 11 Table of Contents The Company’s Reliance on Two Distribution Centers Domestically Located in the Same Vicinity, and One Distribution Center Internationally, Makes it Susceptible to Disruptions or Adverse Conditions Affecting its Distribution Centers. The Company’s two domestic DCs, located in New Albany, Ohio, manage the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise to its stores and direct-to-consumer customers, both regionally and internationally. The Company also uses a third-party DC in the Netherlands for the distribution of merchandise delivered to its stores located outside of North America. As a result, the Company’s operations are susceptible to local and regional factors, such as system failures, accidents, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, and demographic and population changes, as well as other unforeseen events and circumstances. If the Company’s distribution operations were disrupted, its ability to replace inventory in its stores and process direct-to-consumer orders could be interrupted and sales could be negatively impacted. The Company’s Reliance on Third Parties to Deliver Merchandise from its Distribution Centers to its Stores and Direct-to-Consumer Customers Could Result in Disruptions to its Business. The efficient operations of the Company’s stores and direct-to-consumer operations depend on the timely receipt of merchandise from the Company’s DCs. The Company delivers its merchandise to its stores and direct-to-consumer customers using independent third parties. The Company uses primarily one contract carrier for domestic store deliveries and all direct-to-consumer deliveries and a separate contract carrier for international store deliveries. The independent third parties employ personnel that may be represented by labor unions. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees or contractors of any of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise. There can be no assurance that such stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. Any failure by a third party to respond adequately to the Company’s distribution needs would disrupt the Company’s operations and could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, the Company is susceptible to increases in fuel costs which may increase the cost of distribution which the Company may not be able to pass onto the customer and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s Development of New Brand Concepts Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Financial Condition or Results of Operations. Historically, the Company has internally developed and launched new brands that have contributed to sales growth. The Company’s most recent brand is Gilly Hicks which offers bras, underwear, personal care products, sleepwear and at-home products for women. Brand concepts such as Gilly Hicks require management’s focus and attention, as well as significant capital investments. Furthermore, a new brand concept is susceptible to risks that include lack of customer acceptance, competition from existing or new retailers, product differentiation, production and distribution inefficiencies and unanticipated operating issues. There is no assurance that a new brand concept, including Gilly Hicks, will achieve successful results. The failure of Gilly Hicks or another new brand concept to be successfully launched could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the ongoing development of new concepts may place a strain on available resources. Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Adversely Impact Financial Results. The Company’s international subsidiaries generally use local currencies as the functional currency, which includes Euros, Canadian Dollars, Japanese Yen, Hong Kong Dollars and British Pounds. The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S. dollars (“USD”). Therefore, the 12 Table of Contents Company must translate revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities from functional currencies into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during, or at the end of, the reporting period. The fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies could impact the Company’s financial results. Furthermore, the Company purchases substantially all of its inventory in USD. Therefore, the Company’s gross margin rate from international operations is subject to volatility from movements in exchange rates over time, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s Net Sales and Inventory Levels Fluctuate on a Seasonal Basis, Causing its Results of Operations to be Particularly Susceptible to Changes in Back-to-School and Holiday Shopping Patterns. Historically, the Company’s operations have been seasonal, with a significant amount of net sales and net income occurring in the fourth fiscal quarter, due to the increased sales during the Holiday selling season and, to a lesser extent, the third fiscal quarter, reflecting increased sales during the Back-to-School selling season. The Company’s net sales and net income during the first and second fiscal quarters are typically lower, due, in part, to the traditional slowdown in retail sales immediately following the Holiday season. As a result of this seasonality, net sales and net income during any fiscal quarter cannot be used as an accurate indicator of the Company’s annual results. Any factors negatively affecting the Company during the third and fourth fiscal quarters of any year, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations for the entire year. Furthermore, in order to prepare for the Back-to-School and Holiday selling seasons, the Company must order and keep significantly more merchandise in stock than it would carry during other parts of the year. Therefore, the inability to accurately plan for product demand and allocate merchandise effectively could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. High inventory levels due to unanticipated decreases in demand for the Company’s products during peak selling seasons, misidentification of fashion trends, or excess inventory purchases could require the Company to sell merchandise at a substantial markdown, which could reduce its net sales and gross margins and negatively impact its profitability. Low levels of inventory due to conservative planning could also affect product offering in the stores and affect net sales and negatively impact profitability. The Company’s Ability to Attract Customers to its Stores Depends Heavily on the Success of the Shopping Centers in Which They are Located. In order to generate customer traffic, the Company locates many of its stores in prominent locations within successful shopping centers. The Company cannot control the development of new shopping centers; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers. All of these factors may impact the Company’s ability to meet its growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Comparable Store Sales will Continue to Fluctuate on a Regular Basis. The Company’s comparable store sales, defined as year-over-year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and the square footage of which has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20%, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly and monthly basis and are expected 13 Table of Contents to continue to fluctuate in the future. During the past three fiscal years, comparable sales results have fluctuated as follows: (a) from (23)% to (1)% for annual results; (b) from (30)% to 1% for quarterly results; and (c) from (34%) to 8% for monthly results. The Company’s comparable store sales were adversely affected by, among other factors, the economy and competitors’ promotional activities throughout Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2009. The Company believes that a variety of factors affect comparable store sales results including, but not limited to, fashion trends, actions by competitors, economic conditions, weather conditions, opening and/or closing of Company stores near each other, and the calendar shifts of tax free and holiday periods. Comparable store sales fluctuations may impact the Company’s ability to leverage fixed direct expenses, including store rent and store asset depreciation, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. In addition, comparable store sales fluctuations may have been an important factor in the volatility of the price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock in the past, and it is likely that future comparable store sales fluctuations will contribute to stock price volatility in the future. The Company’s Net Sales are Affected by Direct-to-Consumer Sales. The Company sells merchandise over the Internet through its websites: www.abercrombie.com; www.abercrombiekids.com; www.hollisterco.com; and www.gillyhicks.com. The Company’s Internet operations may be affected by reliance on third-party hardware and software providers, technology changes, risks related to the failure of computer systems that operate the Internet business, telecommunications failures, electronic break-ins, security breaches and similar disruptions. Furthermore, the Company’s ability to conduct business on the Internet may be affected by liability for on-line content and state, federal and international privacy laws. The Company’s failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in the Company’s Internet business, as well as damage the Company’s reputation and brands. The Company May be Exposed to Risks and Costs Associated with Credit Card Fraud and Identity Theft. The Company collects certain customer data during the course of business, such as credit card information. The Company and other parties involved in processing customer transactions must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. Although the Company has security measures related to its systems and the privacy of its customers, the Company cannot guarantee these measures will effectively prevent a security breach of customer transaction data. A security breach could cause customers to lose confidence in the security of the Company’s systems and could expose the Company to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt operations and harm the Company’s reputation, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. In addition, states and federal government are enacting laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. These laws will likely increase the costs of doing business and if the Company fails to implement appropriate security measures, the Company could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies, which could adversely affect the Company’s business or results from operations. 14 Table of Contents The Company’s Litigation Exposure Could Exceed Expectations, Having a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Financial Condition or Results of Operations. The Company is involved, from time-to-time, in litigation incidental to its business, such as litigation regarding overtime compensation and other employment related matters. Additionally, the Company is involved in several purported class action lawsuits and several shareholder derivative actions alleged to have arisen out of trading in the Company’s Class A Common Stock in the summer of Fiscal 2005 (collectively, the “Securities Matters,” see “ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Management is unable to assess the potential exposure of the aforesaid matters. The Company’s current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of damaging facts with respect to legal matters pending against the Company or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with management’s evaluation of the claims. Should management’s evaluation prove incorrect, the Company’s exposure could greatly exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company. The Company’s Failure to Adequately Protect Its Trademarks Could Have a Negative Impact on Its Brand Image and Limit Its Ability to Penetrate New Markets. The Company believes its trademarks, Abercrombie & Fitch®, abercrombie®, Hollister Co.®, Gilly Hicks®, Gilly Hicks Sydney® and the “Moose,” “Seagull” and “Koala” logos, are an essential element of the Company’s strategy. The Company has obtained or applied for federal registration of these trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the registries of countries where stores are located or likely to be located in the future. In addition, the Company owns registrations and pending applications for other trademarks in the U.S. and has applied for or obtained registrations from the registries in many foreign countries in which its manufacturers are located. There can be no assurance that the Company will obtain registrations that have been applied for or that the registrations the Company obtains will prevent the imitation of its products or infringement of its intellectual property rights by others. If any third party copies the Company’s products in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, the Company’s brand image could be materially adversely affected. Because the Company has not yet registered all of its trademarks in all categories, or in all foreign countries in which it sources or offers its merchandise now, or may in the future, its international expansion and its merchandising of products using these marks could be limited. For example, the Company cannot ensure that others will not try to block the manufacture, export or sale of its products as a violation of their trademarks or other proprietary rights. The pending applications for international registration of various trademarks could be challenged or rejected in those countries because third parties of whom the Company is not currently aware have already registered similar marks in those countries. Accordingly, it may be possible, in those foreign countries where the status of various applications is pending or unclear, for a third-party owner of the national trademark registration for a similar mark to prohibit the manufacture, sale or exportation of branded goods in or from that country. If the Company is unable to reach an arrangement with any such party, the Company’s manufacturers may be unable to manufacture its products, and the Company may be unable to sell in those countries. The Company’s inability to register its trademarks or purchase or license the right to use its trademarks or logos in these jurisdictions could limit its ability to obtain supplies from, or manufacture in, less costly markets or penetrate new markets should the Company’s business plan include selling its merchandise in those non-U.S. jurisdictions. The Company has an anti-counterfeiting program, under the auspices of the Abercrombie & Fitch Brand Protection Team, whose goal is to eliminate the supply of illegal pieces of the Company’s products. The Brand 15 Table of Contents Protection Team interacts with investigators, customs officials and law enforcement entities throughout the world to combat the illegal use of the Company’s trademarks. Although brand security initiatives are being taken, the Company cannot guarantee that its efforts against the counterfeiting of its brands will be successful. The Company’s Unsecured Credit Agreement Includes Financial and Other Covenants that Impose Restrictions on its Financial and Business Operations. The Company’s unsecured credit agreement expires on April 12, 2013 and market conditions could potentially impact the size and terms of a replacement facility. In addition, the unsecured credit agreement contains financial covenants that require the Company to maintain a minimum coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. If the Company fails to comply with the covenants and is unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result, and the lenders could declare outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable. If that should occur, the Company cannot guarantee that it would have sufficient liquidity at that time to repay or refinance borrowings under the unsecured credit agreement. The inability to obtain credit on commercially reasonable terms, or a default under the current unsecured credit agreement, could adversely impact liquidity and results of operations. Changes in Taxation Requirements Could Adversely Impact Financial Results. The Company is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions, including international and domestic locations. In addition, the Company’s products are subject to import and excise duties, and/or sales, consumption, or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. Fluctuations in tax rates and duties could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company. The Company’s Inability to Obtain Commercial Insurance at Acceptable Prices or Failure to Adequately Reserve for Self-Insured Exposures Might Increase Expenses and Adversely Impact Financial Results. The Company believes that commercial insurance coverage is prudent for risk management in certain areas of the business. Insurance costs may increase substantially in the future and may be affected by natural catastrophes, fear of terrorism, financial irregularities and other fraud at publicly-held companies, intervention by the government and a decrease in the number of insurance carriers. In addition, for certain types or levels of risk, such as risks associated with earthquakes, hurricanes or terrorist attacks, the Company may determine that we cannot obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices, if at all. Therefore, the Company may choose to forego or limit the purchase of relevant commercial insurance, choosing instead to self-insure one or more types of risk. The Company is primarily self-insured for workers’ compensation and employee health benefits. If the Company suffers a substantial loss that is not covered by commercial insurance or self-insurance reserves, the loss and attendant expenses could harm its business and operating results. In addition, exposures exist for which no insurance may be available and for which the Company has not reserved. Modifications and/or Upgrades to Information Technology Systems may Disrupt Operations. The Company regularly evaluates its information technology systems and requirements and is currently implementing modifications and/or upgrades to the information technology systems that support the business. Modifications include replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems, or acquiring new systems with new functionality. The Company is aware of inherent risks associated with 16 Table of Contents replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information and system disruptions. The Company believes it is taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying such replacement technologies. Information technology system disruptions and inaccurate system information, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, there is no assurance that a successfully implemented system will deliver value to the Company. The Company Could Suffer if the Company’s Computer Systems are Disrupted or Cease to Operate Effectively. The Company relies heavily on its computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate the Company’s operations. Given the significant number of transactions that are completed annually, it is vital to maintain constant operation of the computer hardware and software systems. Despite efforts to prevent such an occurrence, the Company’s systems are vulnerable from time-to-time to damage or interruption from computer viruses, power outages, third party intrusions and other technical malfunctions. If the Company’s systems are damaged or fail to function properly, the Company may have to make monetary investments to repair or replace the systems and the Company could endure delays in its operations. Any material interruption could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or results of operations. Changes in the Regulatory or Compliance Landscape Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business or Results of Operations. Laws and regulations at the state, federal and international levels frequently change and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. Changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new legislation including those related to health care, taxes, environmental issues, trade, product safety and employment labor, could adversely affect the Company’s business or results of operations. The Company’s Operations may be Effected by Greenhouse Emissions and Climate Change. The Company’s operations may be effected by regulatory changes related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. The Company is uncertain how the United States and international economies will be affected by potential legislation and public reactions. As a result, the affect this could have on the Company’s operations is currently unknown. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 