ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) provides a “safe harbor” for “forward-looking statements” to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as such information is identified as forward-looking and is accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statement(s). Ingram Micro desires to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Act. Our periodic and current reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, periodic press releases, and other public documents and statements, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act, including, but not limited to, management’s expectations for process improvement; competition; revenues, expenses and other operating results or ratios; contingencies and litigation; economic conditions; liquidity; capital requirements; and exchange rate fluctuations. Forward-looking statements also include any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance, or achievements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “project,” “continue,” “plans,” “aims,” “intends,” “likely,” or other similar words or phrases. We disclaim any duty to update any forward-looking statements. In addition, our representatives participate from time to time in: • speeches and calls with market analysts; • conferences, meetings and calls with investors and potential investors in our securities; and • other meetings and conferences. Some of the information presented in these calls, meetings and conferences may be forward-looking within the meaning of the Act. Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Ingram Micro. In this regard, from time to time, we have failed to meet consensus analysts’ estimates of revenue or earnings. In future quarters, our operating results may differ significantly from the expectations of public market analysts or investors or those projected in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Ingram Micro due to unanticipated events, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this section. Because of our narrow gross margins, the impact of the risk factors stated below may magnify the impact on our operating results and/or financial condition. Difficult conditions in the global economy in general have affected our business and results of operations and these conditions are not expected to improve in the near future and may worsen. A prolonged worldwide economic downturn may further intensify competition, regionally and internationally, which may lead to lower sales or reduced sales growth, loss of market share, reduced prices, lower gross margins, loss of vendor rebates, extended payment terms with customers, increased bad debt risks, shorter payment terms with vendors, reduced access to liquidity and higher interest costs, increased currency volatility making hedging more expensive and more difficult to obtain, increased inventory losses related to obsolescence and/or excess quantities, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our results of operations have been affected to varying degrees by the factors noted above resulting from the difficult conditions in the global economy in general. If the current economic downturn continues or intensifies, our results could be more adversely affected. Furthermore, the IT products industry is subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced product specification requirements and evolving industry standards, which can further cause inventory in stock to decline substantially in value or to become obsolete, regardless of the general economic environment. It is the policy of many suppliers of IT products to offer distributors like us, who purchase directly from them, limited protection from the loss in value of inventory due to technological change or such suppliers’ price reductions. If major suppliers decrease the availability of price protection to us, such a change in policy could lower our gross margins on products 12 Table of Contents we sell or cause us to record inventory write-downs. In addition, suppliers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their protection obligations to us. We offer no assurance that our price protection will continue, that unforeseen new product developments will not materially adversely affect us, or that we will successfully manage our existing and future inventories. Significant changes in supplier terms, such as higher thresholds on sales volume before distributors may qualify for discounts and/or rebates, the overall reduction in the amount of incentives available, reduction or termination of price protection, return levels, or other inventory management programs, or reductions in payment terms or trade credit, or vendor-supported credit programs, may adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. We also have significant credit exposure to our reseller customers and negative trends in their businesses could cause us significant credit loss. As is customary in many industries, we extend credit to our reseller customers for a significant portion of our net sales. Resellers have a period of time, generally 30 to 45 days after date of invoice, to make payment. We are subject to the risk that our reseller customers will not pay for the products they have purchased. The risk that we may be unable to collect on receivables may increase if our reseller customers experience decreases in demand for their products and services or otherwise become less stable, due to adverse economic conditions. If there is a substantial deterioration in the collectibility of our receivables or if we cannot obtain credit insurance at reasonable rates, are unable to collect under existing credit insurance policies, or fail to take other actions to adequately mitigate such credit risk, our earnings, cash flows and our ability to utilize receivable-based financing could deteriorate. Economic downturns may also lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses in response to the lower sales volume. In addition, we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion to remain competitive, which may cause our profitability to suffer. Changes in our credit rating or other market factors, such as continued adverse capital and credit market conditions or reduction of cash flow from operations, may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, reduce access to capital, and/or increase our costs of borrowing. Our business requires significant levels of capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors. This is especially true when our business is expanding, including through acquisitions, but we still have substantial demand for capital even during periods of stagnant or declining net sales. In order to continue operating our business, we will continue to need access to capital, including debt financing. In addition, changes in payment terms with either suppliers or customers could increase our capital requirements. Our ability to repay current or future indebtedness when due, or have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our business needs may be affected by changes to the cash flows of our subsidiaries. A reduction of cash flow generated by our subsidiaries may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Under certain circumstances, legal, tax or contractual restrictions may limit our ability or make it more costly to redistribute cash between subsidiaries to meet the company’s overall operational or strategic investment needs, or for repayment of indebtedness requirements. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash resources and cash provided by operating activities, supplemented as necessary with funds available under our credit arrangements, will provide sufficient resources to meet our present and future working capital and cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities or affect our ability to access committed capacities or the capital we require may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, due to inability of our finance partners to meet their commitments to us. The lack of availability of such funding could harm our ability to operate or expand our business. In addition, our cash and cash equivalents (including trade receivables collected and/or monies set aside for payment to creditors) are deposited and/or invested with various financial institutions located in the various countries in which we operate. We endeavor to monitor these financial institutions regularly for credit quality; however, we are exposed to risk of loss on such funds or we may experience significant disruptions in our liquidity needs if one or more of these financial institutions were to suffer bankruptcy or similar restructuring. Our failure to adequately adapt to economic and industry changes and to manage prolonged contractions could negatively impact our future operating results. Rapid changes in the operating environment for IT distributors have placed significant strain on our business, and we offer no assurance that our ability to manage future 13 Table of Contents adverse industry trends will be successful. Dynamic changes in the industry have resulted in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel and have placed and continue to place a significant strain upon our management, operating and financial systems, and other resources. This strain may result in disruptions to our business and decreased revenues and profitability. In addition, we may not be able to attract or retain sufficient personnel to manage our operations through such dynamic changes. Even with sufficient personnel we cannot assure our ability to successfully manage future adverse industry trends. Also crucial to our success in managing our operations will be our ability to achieve additional economies of scale. Our failure to achieve these additional economies of scale could harm our profitability or lead to restructuring actions which may have incremental discrete costs. In addition, we may not achieve the objectives of our process improvement efforts or be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion to remain competitive, which may cause our profitability to suffer. If our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognize further impairments of our intangible or other long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In the fourth quarter of 2008, consistent with the drastic decline in the capital markets in general, we experienced a similar decline in the market value of our stock. As a result, our market capitalization was significantly lower than our book value. In accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“FAS 142”), we performed an impairment test of our goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2008, which coincided with the timing of our normal annual impairment test. As a result of this test, we recognized a charge of $742.6 million to impair all of our goodwill in the fourth quarter of 2008. This non-cash charge materially impacted our equity and results of operations in 2008, but does not impact our ongoing business operations, liquidity, cash flow or compliance with covenants for our credit facilities. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets, which also include net operating loss carryforwards for entities that have generated or continue to generate taxable losses, are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our future results of operations may be impacted by the prolonged weakness in the current economic environment which may result in an impairment of any goodwill recorded in the future and/or other long-lived assets or valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We continually experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may intensify in a more difficult global economy. Our competitors include local, regional, national, and international distributors, as well as suppliers that employ a direct-sales model. As a result of intense price competition in the IT products and services distribution industry, our gross margins have historically been narrow and we expect them to continue to be narrow in the future. In addition, when there is overcapacity in our industry, our competitors may reduce their prices in response to this overcapacity. We offer no assurance that we will not lose market share, or that we will not be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to the actions of our competitors and thereby experience a further reduction in our gross margins. Furthermore, to remain competitive we may be forced to offer more credit or extended payment terms to our customers. This could increase our required capital, financing costs, and the amount of our bad debt expenses. We have also initiated and expect to continue to initiate other business activities and may face competition from companies with more experience and/or from new entries in those new markets. As we enter new business areas, we may encounter increased competition from current competitors and/or from new competitors, some of which may be our current customers or suppliers, which may negatively impact our sales or profitability. We operate a global business that exposes us to risks associated with international activities. We have local sales offices and/or Ingram Micro representatives in 35 countries, and sell our products and services to resellers in approximately 150 countries. A large portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations. As a result, our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected by risks 14 Table of Contents associated with international activities, including environmental and trade protection laws, policies and measures; tariffs; export license requirements; enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or similar laws of other jurisdictions on our business activities outside the Unites States; other regulatory requirements; economic and labor conditions; political or social unrest; economic instability or natural disasters in a specific country or region, such as hurricanes and tsunamis; health or similar issues such as the outbreak of the avian flu; tax laws in various jurisdictions around the world (as experienced in our Brazilian subsidiary); and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. We are exposed to market risk primarily related to foreign currencies and interest rates. In particular, we are exposed to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currency in which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased, including devaluation and revaluation of local currencies. We manage our exposure to fluctuations in the value of currencies and interest rates using a variety of financial instruments. Although we believe that our exposures are appropriately diversified across counterparties and that these counterparties are creditworthy financial institutions and we monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties, we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by our counterparties to foreign exchange and interest rate swap contracts and we may not be able to adequately mitigate all foreign currency related risks. We have made and expect to continue to make investments in new business strategies and initiatives, including acquisitions and continued enhancements to information systems, process and procedures and infrastructure on a global basis, which could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our operating results. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management’s attention away from normal business operations; insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy; difficulty in the integration of acquired businesses, including new employees, business systems and technology; inability to adapt to challenges of new markets, including geographies, products and services, or to attract new sources of profitable business from expansion of products or services; exposure to new regulations; and issues not discovered in our due diligence process. Our operations may be adversely impacted by an acquisition that (i) is not suited for us, (ii) is improperly executed, or (iii) substantially increases our debt. All these factors could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. We are dependent on a variety of information systems and a failure of these systems could disrupt our business and harm our reputation and net sales. We depend on a variety of information systems for our operations, including our centralized IMpulse information processing system, which supports many of our operational functions such as inventory management, order processing, shipping, receiving, and accounting. Because IMpulse is comprised of a number of legacy, internally developed applications, it can be harder to upgrade, and may not be adaptable to commercially available software. Also, we may acquire other businesses having information systems and records which may be converted and integrated into current Ingram Micro information systems. Although we have not in the past experienced material system-wide failures or downtime of any of our information systems used around the world, we have experienced failures in certain specific geographies. Failures or significant downtime for any of our information systems could prevent us from placing product orders with vendors or recording inventory received, taking customer orders, printing product pick-lists, and/or shipping and invoicing for product sold. It could also prevent customers from accessing our price and product availability information. In order to support future growth of the company, we continue to review our business needs and are making continuous improvements, including standardization where appropriate of business processes, and technology upgrades to our information systems, including software applications and electronic interfaces with our business partners. This can be a lengthy and expensive process that may result in a significant diversion of resources from other operations. In implementing these enhancements, we may experience greater-than-acceptable difficulty or costs; we may also experience significant disruptions in our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and operations, particularly if we were to replace a substantial portion of our current systems and processes. In addition, we offer no assurance that competitors will not develop superior systems or that we will be able to meet evolving market requirements by upgrading our current systems at a reasonable cost, or at all. Finally, we also rely on the Internet for a significant percentage of our orders and information exchanges with our customers. The Internet and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, 15 Table of Contents some of which were caused by organized attacks. In addition, some websites have experienced security breakdowns. To date, our website has not experienced any material breakdowns, disruptions or breaches in security; however, we cannot assure that this will not occur in the future. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, this could harm our relationship with our customers, suppliers or associates. Disruption of our website or the Internet in general could impair our order processing or more generally prevent our customers and suppliers from accessing information. This could cause us to lose business. Terminations of a supply or services agreement or a significant change in supplier terms or conditions of sale could negatively affect our operating margins, revenue or the level of capital required to fund our operations. A significant percentage of our net sales relates to products sold to us by relatively few suppliers or publishers. As a result of such concentration risk, terminations of supply or services agreements, or a significant change in the terms or conditions of sale from one or more of our more significant partners, or bankruptcy or closure of business by one or more of our more significant partners could negatively affect our operating margins, revenues or the level of capital required to fund our operations. Our suppliers have the ability to make, and in the past have made, rapid and significantly adverse changes in their sales terms and conditions, such as reducing the amount of price protection and return rights as well as reducing the level of purchase discounts and rebates they make available to us. In most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with suppliers. In certain product categories, such as systems, limited price protection or return rights offered by suppliers may have a bearing on the amount of product we may be willing to stock. We expect restrictive supplier terms and conditions to continue in the foreseeable future. Our inability to pass through to our reseller customers the impact of these changes, as well as our failure to develop systems to manage ongoing supplier programs, could cause us to record inventory write-downs or other losses and could have a material negative impact on our gross margins. We receive purchase discounts and rebates from suppliers based on various factors, including sales or purchase volume and breadth of customers. These purchase discounts and rebates may affect gross margins. Many purchase discounts from suppliers are based on percentage increases in sales of products. Our operating results could be negatively impacted if these rebates or discounts are reduced or eliminated or if our vendors significantly increase the complexity of process and costs for us to receive such rebates. Our ability to obtain particular products or product lines in the required quantities and to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is critical to our success. The IT industry experiences significant product supply shortages and customer order backlogs from time to time due to the inability of certain suppliers to supply certain products on a timely basis. As a result, we have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, short-term shortages of specific products. In addition, suppliers who currently distribute their products through us may decide to shift to or substantially increase their existing distribution, through other distributors, their own dealer networks, or directly to resellers or end-users. Suppliers have, from time to time, made efforts to reduce the number of distributors with which they do business. This could result in more intense competition as distributors strive to secure distribution rights with these vendors, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. If suppliers are not able to provide us with an adequate supply of products to fulfill our customer orders on a timely basis or we cannot otherwise obtain particular products or a product line or suppliers substantially increase their existing distribution through other distributors, their own dealer networks, or directly to resellers, our reputation, sales and profitability may suffer. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective income tax rates or operating margins and we may be required to pay additional tax assessments. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could also affect our future results of operations. Our future effective income tax rates or operating margins could also be unfavorably affected by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries in low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly evaluate our tax contingencies and uncertain tax positions to determine the adequacy of our provision for income and other taxes based on the technical merits and the likelihood of success resulting from tax examinations. Any adverse outcome from these continuous examinations may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. 16 Table of Contents We recorded a charge of $33.8 million in the first quarter of 2007 related to commercial taxes on imported software in Brazil and have disclosed a contingency with respect to potential taxes on services in Brazil as discussed in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. We released a portion of this reserve in the fourth quarters of 2008 and 2007, totaling $8.2 million and $3.6 million, respectively, which relate to unassessed periods, for which it is our opinion, after consultation with counsel, that the statute of limitations for an assessment from Brazilian tax authorities had expired. We cannot predict what loss we might incur as a result of the SEC inquiry we have received as well as other litigation matters and contingencies that we may be involved with from time to time. In May 2007, we received a “Wells Notice” from the SEC, which indicated that the SEC staff intends to recommend an administrative proceeding against the company seeking disgorgement and prejudgment interest, though no dollar amounts were specified in the notice. The staff contends that the company failed to maintain adequate books and records relating to certain of our transactions with McAfee Inc. (formerly Network Associates, Inc.), and was a cause of McAfee’s own securities-laws violations relating to the filing of reports and maintenance of books and records. During the second quarter of 2007, we recorded a reserve of $15.0 million for the current best estimate of the probable loss associated with this matter based on discussions with the SEC staff concerning the issues raised in the Wells Notice. No resolution with the SEC has been reached at this point, however, and there can be no assurance that such discussions will result in a resolution of these issues. When the matter is resolved, the final disposition and the related cash payment may exceed the current accrual for the best estimate of probable loss. At this time, it is also not possible to accurately predict the timing of a resolution. We have responded to the Wells Notice and continue to cooperate fully with the SEC on this matter, which was first disclosed during the third quarter of 2004. There are various other claims, lawsuits and pending actions against us incidental to our operations. It is our opinion that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Part II, Item 1, “Legal Proceedings,” in this Form 10-K for further discussion of our material legal matters. We may incur material litigation, regulatory or operational costs or expenses, and may be frustrated in our marketing efforts, as a result of new environmental regulations or private intellectual property enforcement disputes. We already operate in or may expand into markets which could subject us to environmental laws that may have a material adverse effect on our business, including the European Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive as enacted by individual European Union countries and other similar legislation adopted in California, which make producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, responsible for collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of recovered products. We may also be prohibited from marketing products, could be forced to market products without desirable features, or could incur substantial costs to defend legal actions, including where third parties claim that we or vendors who may have indemnified us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. In recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from target companies. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly settlement or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. Future terrorist or military actions could result in disruption to our operations or loss of assets in certain markets or globally. Future terrorist or military actions, in the U.S. or abroad, could result in destruction or seizure of assets or suspension or disruption of our operations. Additionally, such actions could affect the operations of our suppliers or customers, resulting in loss of access to products, potential losses on supplier programs, loss of business, higher losses on receivables or inventory, and/or other disruptions in our business, which could negatively affect our operating results. We do not carry broad insurance covering such terrorist or military actions, and even if we were to seek such coverage, the cost would likely be prohibitive. Failure to retain and recruit key personnel would harm our ability to meet key objectives. Because of the nature of our business, which includes (but is not limited to) high volume of transactions, business complexity, wide 17 Table of Contents geographical coverage, and broad scope of products, suppliers, and customers, we are dependent in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key management, sales, IT, operational, and finance personnel. Our continued success is also dependent upon our ability to retain and recruit other qualified employees, including highly skilled technical, managerial, and marketing personnel, to meet our needs. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we have recently reduced our personnel in various geographies and functions through our restructuring and outsourcing activities. These reductions could negatively impact our relationships with our workforce, or make hiring other employees more difficult. In addition, failure to meet performance targets for the company may result in reduced levels of incentive compensation, which may affect our ability to retain key personnel. Additionally, changes in workforce, including government regulations, collective bargaining agreements or the availability of qualified personnel could disrupt operations or increase our operating cost structure. We face a variety of risks with outsourcing arrangements. We have outsourced various transaction-oriented service and support functions in North America to a leading global business process outsource provider outside the United States. We have also outsourced a significant portion of our IT infrastructure function and certain IT application development functions to third-party providers. We may outsource additional functions to third-party providers. Our reliance on third-party providers to provide service to us, our customers and suppliers and for our IT requirements to support our business could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations, including damaging our relationships with our suppliers and customers, if these third-party providers do not meet their obligations to adequately maintain an appropriate level of service for the outsourced functions or fail to adequately support our IT requirements. As a result of our outsourcing activities, it may also be more difficult to recruit and retain qualified employees for our business needs. Changes in accounting rules could adversely affect our future operating results. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies, including the FASB and the SEC, who create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. Future periodic assessments required by current or new accounting standards may result in additional non-cash charges and/or changes in presentation or disclosure. A change from current accounting standards could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Our quarterly results have fluctuated significantly. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future as a result of: • general deterioration in economic or geopolitical conditions, including changes in legislation and regulatory environments in which we operate; • competitive conditions in our industry, which may impact the prices charged and terms and conditions imposed by our suppliers and/or competitors and the prices we charge our customers, which in turn may negatively impact our revenues and/or gross margins; • seasonal variations in the demand for our products and services, which historically have included lower demand in Europe during the summer months, worldwide pre-holiday stocking in the retail channel during the September-to-December period and the seasonal increase in demand for our North American fee-based logistics related services in the fourth quarter, which affects our operating expenses and margins; • changes in product mix, including entry or expansion into new markets, as well as the exit or retraction of certain business; • the impact of and possible disruption caused by reorganization actions and efforts to improve our IT capabilities, as well as the related expenses and/or charges; • currency fluctuations in countries in which we operate; • variations in our levels of excess inventory and doubtful accounts, and changes in the terms of vendor-sponsored programs such as price protection and return rights; • changes in the level of our operating expenses; 18 Table of Contents • the impact of acquisitions we may make; • the loss or consolidation of one or more of our major suppliers or customers; • product supply constraints; and • interest rate fluctuations and/or credit market volatility, which may increase our borrowing costs and may influence the willingness or ability of customers and end-users to purchase products and services. These historical variations in our business may not be indicative of future trends in the near term, particularly in the light of the current weak global economic environment. Our narrow operating margins may magnify the impact of the foregoing factors on our operating results. We believe that you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of future performance. In addition, the results of any quarterly period are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. We are dependent on third-party shipping companies for the delivery of our products. We rely almost entirely on arrangements with third-party shipping and freight forwarding companies for the delivery of our products. The termination of our arrangements with one or more of these third-party shipping companies, or the failure or inability of one or more of these third-party shipping companies to deliver products from suppliers to us or products from us to our reseller customers or their end-user customers, could disrupt our business and harm our reputation and operating results. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 