Item 1A. Risk Factors If we are unable to commercialize ADVEXIN® therapy in various markets for multiple indications, particularly for the treatment of head and neck cancer, our business will be harmed. Our ability to achieve and sustain operating profitability depends on our ability to successfully commercialize ADVEXIN therapy in various markets for multiple indications, which depends in large part on our ability to commence, execute and complete clinical programs and obtain regulatory approvals for ADVEXIN therapy and other drug candidates. In particular, our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will depend in large part on our ability to commercialize ADVEXIN therapy for the treatment of head and neck cancer in the United States. We cannot assure you we will receive approval for ADVEXIN therapy for the treatment of head and neck cancer or other types of cancer or indications in the United States or in other countries or if approved that we will achieve significant level of sales. If we are unable to do so, our business will be harmed. If we fail to comply with FDA requirements or encounter delays or difficulties in clinical trials for our product candidates, we may not obtain regulatory approval of some or all of our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. In order to commercialize our product candidates, we must obtain certain regulatory approvals. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, and involves compliance with requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use. To obtain regulatory approvals, we must, among other requirements, complete clinical trials demonstrating our product candidates are safe and effective for a particular cancer type or other disease. Regulatory approval of a new drug is never guaranteed. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process. Despite the time and experience exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems causing us to abandon clinical trials. We have completed three Phase 2 clinical trials and are conducting two Phase 3 clinical trials of our lead product candidate, ADVEXIN therapy, for the treatment of head and neck cancer. In addition, we have completed a Phase 2 clinical trial of ADVEXIN therapy for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer and are conducting a Phase 2 clinical trial of ADVEXIN therapy for the treatment of breast cancer. We also are conducting or have conducted several Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials of ADVEXIN therapy for other types of cancer. Current or future clinical trials may demonstrate ADVEXIN therapy is neither safe nor effective. While we have completed enrollment of patients in a Phase 1/early Phase 2 clinical trial of INGN 241, a product candidate based on the mda-7 tumor suppressor, and have initiated a follow-on Phase 2 clinical trial of INGN 241 for patients with metastatic melanoma, our most significant clinical trial activity and experience has been with ADVEXIN therapy. We will need to continue conducting significant research and animal testing, referred to as pre-clinical testing, to support performing clinical trials for our other product candidates. It will take us many years to complete pre-clinical testing and clinical trials, and failure could occur at any stage of testing. Current or future clinical trials may demonstrate INGN 241 or our other product candidates are neither safe nor effective. Any delays or difficulties we encounter in our pre-clinical research and clinical trials, in particular the Phase 3 clinical trials of ADVEXIN therapy for the treatment of head and neck cancer, may delay or preclude regulatory approval. Our product development costs will increase if we experience delays in testing or regulatory approvals or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Any delay or preclusion could also delay or preclude the commercialization of ADVEXIN therapy or any other product candidates. In addition, we or the FDA might delay or halt any of our clinical trials of a product candidate at any time for various reasons, including: • the product candidate is less effective and/or more toxic than current therapies; • the presence of unforeseen adverse side effects of a product candidate, including its delivery system; • a longer than expected time required to determine whether or not a product candidate is effective; 27 Table of Contents • the death of patients during a clinical trial, even if the product candidate did not cause those deaths; • the failure to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials; • the inability to produce sufficient quantities of a product candidate to complete the trials; or • the inability to commit the necessary resources to fund the clinical trials. We cannot be certain the results we observed in our pre-clinical testing will be confirmed in clinical trials or the results of any of our clinical trials will support FDA approval. Pre-clinical and clinical data can be interpreted in many different ways, and FDA officials could interpret differently data we consider promising, which could halt or delay our clinical trials or prevent regulatory approval. Despite the FDA’s designation of ADVEXIN therapy as a Fast Track product, we may encounter delays in the regulatory approval process due to additional information requirements from the FDA, unintentional omissions in our BLA for ADVEXIN therapy, or other delays in the FDA’s review process. We may encounter delays or rejections in the regulatory approval process because of additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. Despite the initiation of the BLA process for ADVEXIN therapy under the FDA’s accelerated approval regulations, the FDA could determine that accelerated approval is not warranted and that a traditional BLA filing must be made. Such a determination could delay regulatory approval. Additionally, accelerated approval of an application could be subject to Phase 4 or post-approval studies to validate the surrogate endpoint or confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. Failure to validate a surrogate endpoint or confirm a clinical benefit during post-marketing studies could cause the product to be withdrawn from the market by the FDA on an expedited basis. Even if our products are approved by regulatory authorities, if we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or certain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturer or manufacturing processes or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recall, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures or detention, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs could prevent us from selling our products in foreign markets, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial conditions. For marketing drugs and biologics outside the United States, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require additional testing. The time required to obtain approvals outside the United States may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approval on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or to obtain required approvals could impair our ability to develop these markets and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents We have a history of operating losses, expect to incur significant additional operating losses and may never become profitable. We have generated operating losses since we began operations in June 1993. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $143.5 million. We expect to incur substantial additional operating expense and losses over the next several years as our research, development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities increase. As we expand our operations and develop systems to support commercialization of our product candidates, these losses, among other things, have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our total assets, stockholders’ equity and working capital. We have no products that have generated any commercial revenue. Presently, we earn minimal revenue from contract services activities, grants, interest income and rent from the lease of a portion of our facilities to M. D. Anderson Cancer Center. We do not expect to generate revenue from the commercial sale of products in the near future, and we may never generate revenue from the commercial sale of products. If we continue to incur operating losses for a period longer than we anticipate and fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to advance our development program and complete our clinical trials. Developing a new drug and conducting clinical trials is expensive. Our product development efforts may not lead to commercial products, either because our product candidates fail to be found safe or effective in clinical trials or because we lack the necessary financial or other resources or relationships to pursue our programs through commercialization. Our capital and future revenue may not be sufficient to support the expense of our operations, the development of commercial infrastructure and the conduct of our clinical trials and pre-clinical research. We expect we will fund our operations over approximately the next 18 to 24 months with our current working capital, which we accumulated primarily from sale of equity securities, income from contract services and research grants, debt financing of equipment acquisitions, the lease of a portion of our facilities to M. D. Anderson Cancer Center and interest on invested funds. We may need to raise additional capital sooner, however, under various circumstances, including if we experience: • an acceleration of the number, size or complexity of our clinical trials; • slower than expected progress in developing ADVEXIN therapy, INGN 241 or other product candidates; • higher than expected costs to obtain regulatory approvals; • higher than expected costs to pursue our intellectual property strategy; • higher than expected costs to further develop and scale up our manufacturing capability; • higher than expected costs to develop our sales and marketing capability; • faster than expected rate of progress and cost of our research and development and clinical trial activities; • a decrease in the amount and timing of milestone payments we receive from collaborators; • higher than expected costs of preparing an application for FDA approval of ADVEXIN therapy; • higher than expected costs of developing the processes and systems to support FDA approval of ADVEXIN therapy; • an increase in our timetable and costs for the development of marketing operations and other activities related to the commercialization of ADVEXIN therapy and our other product candidates; • a change in the degree of success in our Phase 3 clinical trial of ADVEXIN therapy and in the clinical trials of our other products; 29 Table of Contents • the emergence of competing technologies and other adverse market developments; or • changes in or terminations of our existing collaboration and licensing arrangements. We do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed or on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. We may need to raise any necessary funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. If we raise funds through debt financings, we may become subject to restrictive covenants. To the extent we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms not favorable to us. If we are not able to raise additional funds, we may have to delay, reduce or eliminate our clinical trials and our development programs. If we cannot maintain our existing corporate and academic arrangements and enter into new arrangements, we may be unable to develop products effectively, or at all. Our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of our product candidates may result in our entering into contractual arrangements with corporate collaborators, academic institutions and others. We have entered into sponsored research, license and/or collaborative arrangements with several entities, including M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, the NCI, Chiba University in Japan, VirRx and Corixa, which was acquired by GlaxoSmithKline, as well as numerous other institutions that conduct clinical trials work or perform pre-clinical research for us. Our success depends upon our collaborative partners performing their responsibilities under these arrangements and complying with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources our collaborative partners devote to our research and testing programs or product candidates, or their compliance with regulatory requirements which can vary because of factors unrelated to such programs or product candidates. These relationships may in some cases be terminated at the discretion of our collaborative partners with only limited notice to us. We may not be able to maintain our existing arrangements, enter into new arrangements or negotiate current or new arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. Some of our collaborative partners may also be researching competing technologies independently from us to treat the diseases targeted by our collaborative programs. If we do not continue to receive grant funding from federal agencies and others, we may be unable to continue our research and development programs for certain of our product candidates at current levels or in the manner we have planned for the future. We rely on grants from third parties, generally federal agencies, to provide the funding necessary to conduct our research and development programs for some of our technologies and product candidates. Funding of these grants is typically subject to government appropriations. These grants often contain provisions that allow for termination at the convenience of the government. Further, these grants are subject to complex federal guidelines and regulations. If federal agencies or regulatory authorities determine that we, or the programs for which we desire to receive or have received grant funding, do not qualify for funding, our scientific or product development programs could be slowed or stopped and we may suffer financial losses and be unable to successfully commercialize our products. If we are not able to create effective collaborative marketing relationships, we may be unable to market ADVEXIN therapy successfully or in a cost-effective manner. To effectively market our products, we will need to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. In order to develop or otherwise obtain these capabilities, we may have to enter into marketing, distribution or other similar arrangements with third parties in order to sell, market and distribute our products successfully. To the extent we enter into any such arrangements with third parties, our product revenue are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third parties. We have no experience in marketing or selling pharmaceutical products and we currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capability. We may be unable to develop sufficient sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to commercialize our products successfully. 30 Table of Contents Serious and unexpected side effects attributable to molecular therapies may result in governmental authorities imposing additional regulatory requirements or a negative public perception of our products. ADVEXIN therapy and most of our other product candidates under development could be broadly described as targeted molecular therapies or recombinant DNA therapies. A number of clinical trials are being conducted by other pharmaceutical companies involving related therapies, including compounds similar to, or competitive with, our product candidates. The announcement of adverse results from these clinical trials, such as serious unwanted and unexpected side effects attributable to treatment, or any response by the FDA to such clinical trials, may impede the timing of our clinical trials, delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or negatively influence public perception of our product candidates, which could harm our business and results of operations and depress the value of our stock. The United States Senate has held hearings concerning the adequacy of regulatory oversight of recombinant DNA therapy clinical trials, as well as the adequacy of research subject education and protection in clinical research in general, and to determine whether additional legislation is required to protect volunteers and patients who participate in such clinical trials. The Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee, which acts as an advisory body to the NIH, has expanded its public role in evaluating important public and ethical issues in recombinant DNA therapy clinical trials. Implementation of any additional review and reporting procedures or other additional regulatory measures could increase the costs of or prolong our product development efforts or clinical trials. We report to the FDA and other regulatory agencies serious adverse events, including those we believe may be reasonably related to the treatments administered in our clinical trials. Such serious adverse events, whether treatment-related or not, could result in negative public perception of our treatments and require additional regulatory review or measures, which could increase the cost of or prolong our clinical trials. The FDA has not approved any recombinant DNA therapy products of the types being developed by Introgen for sale in the United States. The commercial success of our products will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of these types of recombinant DNA products, which are a new type of disease treatment for the prevention or treatment of human diseases. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that these types of recombinant DNA products are unsafe, and these treatment methodologies may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. Negative public reaction to these types of recombinant DNA products could also result in greater government regulation and stricter clinical trial oversight. Patient enrollment may be slow and patients may discontinue their participation in clinical studies, which may negatively impact the results of these studies, and extend the timeline for completion of our and our collaborator’s development programs for our product candidates. The time required to complete clinical trails is dependent upon, among other factors, the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • the nature of the clinical protocol requirements; • the diversion of patients to other trials or marketed therapies; • the ability to recruit and manage clinical centers and associated trials; • the proximity of patients to clinical sites; and • the patient eligibility criteria for the study. We are subject to the risk that patients enrolled in our and our collaborator’s clinical studies for our product candidates may discontinue their participation at any time during the study as a result of a number of factors, including, withdrawing their consent or experiencing adverse clinical events which may or may not be related to our product candidates under evaluation. We are subject to the risk that if a large number of patients in any one of our studies discontinue their participation in the study, the results from that study may not be positive or may not support an NDA for regulatory approval of our product candidates. 31 Table of Contents We cannot predict the safety profile of the use of ADVEXIN therapy when used in combination with other therapies. Many of our trials involve the use of ADVEXIN therapy in combination with other drugs or therapies. While the data we have evaluated to date suggest ADVEXIN therapy does not increase the adverse effects of other therapies, we cannot predict if this outcome will continue to be true or whether possible adverse side effects not directly attributable to the other drugs will compromise the safety profile of ADVEXIN therapy when used in certain combination therapies. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts to develop competing drugs. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent protection for our products and other technologies and successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. Our patent position, like that of other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, is highly uncertain. One uncertainty is the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, or the courts, may deny or significantly narrow claims made under patents issued to us or patent applications we file. This is particularly true for patent applications or patents that concern biotechnology and pharmaceutical technologies, such as ours, since the PTO and the courts often consider these technologies to involve unpredictable sciences. Another uncertainty is any patents that may be issued or licensed to us may not provide any competitive advantage to us because they may not effectively preclude others from developing and marketing products like ours. Also, our patents may be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. In addition, our competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made significant investments in competing technologies, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell our potential products either in the United States or in international markets. Our ability to develop and protect a competitive position based on our biotechnological innovations, innovations involving molecular therapies, recombinant DNA therapeutic agents, viruses for delivering targeted molecular therapies to cells, formulations, delivery systems not involving viruses, and the like, is particularly uncertain. Due to the unpredictability of the biotechnological sciences, the PTO, as well as patent offices in other jurisdictions, has often required patent applications concerning biotechnology-related inventions to be limited or narrowed substantially to cover only the specific innovations exemplified in the patent application, thereby limiting their scope of protection against competitive challenges. Similarly, courts have invalidated or significantly narrowed many key patents in the biotechnology industry. Thus, even if we are able to obtain patents covering commercially significant innovations, our patents may not be upheld or our patents may be substantially narrowed. Through our exclusive license from The University of Texas System for technology developed at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, we have obtained and are currently seeking further patent protection for adenoviral p53, including ADVEXIN therapy, and its use in cancer therapy. Further, the PTO issued us a United States patent for our adenovirus production technology as well as a related patent for purified adenoviral compositions. We also control, through licensing arrangements, five issued United States patents for combination therapy involving the p53 tumor suppressor and conventional chemotherapy or radiation, two issued United States patents covering the use of adenoviral p53 in cancer therapy, one issued United States patent covering adenoviral p53 as a product, one issued United States patent covering the core DNA of adenoviral p53, one issued patent covering pharmaceutical compositions of adenoviral p53 and clinical applications of such pharmaceutical compositions, as well as three patents covering our mda-7 technology. Our competitors may challenge the validity of one or more of our patents in the courts or through an administrative procedure known as an interference, in which the PTO determines the priority of invention where two or more parties are claiming the same invention. The courts or the PTO may not uphold the validity of our patents, we may not prevail in such interference proceedings regarding our patents and none of our patents may give us a competitive advantage. In this regard, we have been notified by the PTO that an unidentified third party is attempting to provoke an interference with one of our patents directed to adenoviral p53 therapy. We do not at present know the identity of this party and cannot assess the likelihood of an interference actually being declared. Should that party prevail in an interference proceeding, a patent may issue to that party that is 32 Table of Contents infringed by, and therefore potentially preclude our commercialization of, products like ADVEXIN therapy that are used for adenoviral p53 therapy. Schering-Plough filed with the European Patent Office, or EPO, an opposition against our European patent directed to combination therapy with p53 and conventional chemotherapy and/or radiation. An opposition is an administrative proceeding instituted by a third party and conducted by the EPO to determine whether a patent should be maintained or revoked, in part or in whole, based on evidence brought forth by the party opposing the patent. In February 2006, the Technical Board of Appeals of the EPO held a final oral proceeding concerning Schering-Plough’s opposition and determined our patent should be maintained as amended. No further appeal by Schering-Plough is possible. We rely on trade secrets law to protect technology where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. In addition, we generally require employees, academic collaborators and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements. Despite these measures, we may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We are a party to various license agreements that give us rights to use specified technologies in our research and development processes. If we are not able to continue to license this technology on commercially reasonable terms, our product development and research may be delayed. In addition, in the case of technologies that we have licensed, we do not have the ability to make the final decisions on how the patent application process is managed, and accordingly are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we exercise over our internally developed technology. Our research collaborators and scientific advisors have rights to publish data and information in which we have rights. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be diminished. Third-party claims of infringement of intellectual property could require us to spend time and money to address the claims and could limit our intellectual property rights. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. We are aware of a number of issued patents and patent applications related to recombinant DNA therapy, the treatment of cancer and the use of the p53 and other tumor suppressors. Schering-Plough, including its subsidiary Canji, controls various United States applications and a European patent and applications, some of which are directed to therapy using p53, and others to adenoviruses containing p53, or adenoviral p53, and to methods for carrying out therapy using adenoviral p53. Adenoviral p53 technology underlies our ADVEXIN therapy product candidate. Furthermore, we are aware of a United States patent directed to replication-deficient recombinant adenoviral vectors apparently controlled by Transgene SA. While we believe the claims of the Transgene adenoviral vector patent are invalid or not infringed by our products, Transgene could assert a claim against us. One of the foregoing patent applications directed to p53 therapy, which we understand is owned by The Johns Hopkins University and controlled by Schering-Plough, was involved in a PTO interference proceeding with a patent owned by Canji. This Johns Hopkins application was the United States counterpart to the European patent recently revoked in its entirety by the EPO (see below). Priority of invention in that interference was awarded by the PTO to the Johns Hopkins inventors, leading to the issuance of a United States patent, and the Canji patent has been found unpatentable. While it is our belief that the claims of the Johns Hopkins patent are invalid and not infringed by our ADVEXIN therapy, Schering-Plough or Johns Hopkins may assert that our ADVEXIN therapy, which uses p53 therapy, infringes the claims of such patent. While we believe we would have both an invalidity and non-infringement defense against such an assertion, in the United States an issued patent enjoys a presumption of validity, which can be overcome only through clear and convincing evidence. We cannot assure such a defense would prevail. We may also become subject to infringement claims or litigation arising out of other patents and pending applications of our competitors, if they issue, or additional interference proceedings declared by the PTO to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, PTO 33 Table of Contents interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings are costly and time-consuming to pursue, and their outcome is uncertain. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our issued patents, to protect our trade secrets and know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. An adverse determination in litigation or interference proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to obtain licenses from third parties, or restrict or prevent us from selling our products in certain markets. Although patent and intellectual property disputes are often settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, the necessary licenses may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. In particular, if we were found to infringe a valid claim of the Transgene adenoviral vector United States patent, the Johns Hopkins patent or a patent that may issue from a currently pending application, our business could be materially harmed. We have recently been involved in patent opposition proceedings before the EPO, in which we have sought to have the EPO revoke three different European patents owned or controlled by Canji/ Schering-Plough. These European patents relate to the use of p53, or the use of tumor suppressors, in the preparation of therapeutic products. In one opposition involving a Canji European patent directed to the use of a recombinant tumor suppressor, the EPO revoked the European patent in its entirety in a final, non-appealable decision. In the second opposition, involving a patent that is directed to therapeutic and other applications of the p53 and that is owned by Johns Hopkins and, we understand, controlled by Schering-Plough, the EPO recently revoked the patent in its entirety. The patent owner appealed this decision and the final hearing before the EPO Technical Board of Appeals was held in June 2005, at which time the Technical Board of Appeals confirmed the final revocation of all claims of this patent relevant to clinical therapeutic applications of p53. In a third case involving the use of p53, the European patent at issue was initially upheld, but finally revoked in a hearing held in late April 2004. We may be subject to litigation and infringement claims that may be costly, divert management’s attention, and materially harm our business. Extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights has been common in the biopharmaceutical industry. Litigation may be necessary to assert infringement claims, enforce patent rights, protect trade secrets or know-how and determine the enforceability, scope and validity of certain proprietary rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property lawsuits, PTO interference proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and internationally involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, such proceedings are costly and time-consuming to pursue and their outcome is uncertain. Regardless of merit or outcome, our involvement in any litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings could cause us to incur substantial expense and could significantly divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination may subject us to the loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may include substantial cost and ongoing royalties. Licenses may not be available from third parties, or may not be obtainable on satisfactory terms. An adverse determination or a failure to obtain necessary licenses may restrict or prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, if any. These outcomes could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to meet our obligations under license agreements, we may lose our rights to key technologies on which our business depends. Our business depends in part on patents licensed from third parties. Those third-party license agreements impose obligations on us, such as payment obligations and obligations to diligently pursue development of commercial products under the licensed patents. If a licensor believes we have failed to meet our obligations under a license agreement, the licensor could seek to limit or terminate our license rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of the licensed rights. During the period of any such litigation, our ability to carry out the development and commercialization of product candidates could be 34 Table of Contents significantly and negatively affected. If our license rights were restricted or ultimately lost, our ability to continue our business based on the affected technology platform would be severely adversely affected. Competition and technological change may make our product candidates and technologies less attractive or obsolete. We compete with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including Canji and Genvec, which are pursuing forms of treatment similar to ours for the diseases ADVEXIN therapy and our other product candidates target. We are aware Canji, with its parent Schering-Plough, has in the past been involved in research and/or development of adenoviral p53 products and has numerous patents and patent applications relating to adenoviral p53 therapy. We understand Schering-Plough has stopped its adenoviral p53 clinical trials, and it is unknown whether these parties are continuing their adenoviral p53 research and/or development efforts. We are also aware that a Chinese pharmaceutical company, SiBiono GeneTech, has recently announced it has received regulatory approval from the Chinese drug regulatory agency to market an adenoviral p53 product only in China. We control an issued Chinese patent covering adenoviral p53, and a number of pending Chinese applications directed to p53 therapy and adenoviral production. We understand enforcement of patents in China is unpredictable and we do not know if monetary damages could be recovered from SiBiono GeneTech if its product infringes our patent or patent applications. Patent enforcement and respect of international patent standards, rules and laws have not historically been a key characteristic of the Chinese government and patent system. Further, geopolitical developments, including trade and tariff disputes between the government of China and the United States Department of Commerce could add additional uncertainty to any effort to enforce patents, recover damages, if any, or engage in the sales and marketing of patented or non-patented products in China. We are aware that ImClone and Bristol Myers Squibb have obtained marketing approval for a monoclonal antibody product (Erbitux) for the treatment of certain kinds of head and neck cancer. We also may face competition from companies that may develop internally or acquire competing technology from universities and other research institutions. As these companies develop or acquire their technologies, they may develop competitive positions that may prevent or limit our product commercialization efforts. Some of our competitors are established companies with greater financial and other resources than ours. Other companies may succeed in developing products earlier than we do, obtaining FDA approval for products before we do or developing products that are more effective than our product candidates. While we will seek to expand our technological capabilities to remain competitive, research and development by others may render our technology or product candidates obsolete or non-competitive or result in treatments or cures superior to any therapy developed by us. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our ADVEXIN therapy, INGN 241, INGN 225 or other product candidates, we may not be able to commercialize them profitably. Our profitability will depend on the market’s acceptance of ADVEXIN therapy, INGN 241, INGN 225, if approved, and our other product candidates. The commercial success of our product candidates will depend on whether: • they are more effective than alternative treatments; • their side effects are acceptable to patients and doctors; • insurers and other third-party healthcare payers will provide adequate reimbursement for them; • we produce and sell them at a profit; and • we market ADVEXIN therapy, INGN 241, INGN 225 and other product candidates effectively. 35 Table of Contents We must achieve significant market share and obtain high per-patient prices for our products to achieve profitability. ADVEXIN therapy, our lead product candidate will, if approved, initially be targeted for the treatment of recurrent squamous cell cancer of the head and neck, a disease with an annual incidence of approximately 40,000 patients in the United States. As a result, our per-patient prices must be sufficiently high in order to recover our development costs and achieve profitability. Until additional disease targets with larger potential markets are approved, we believe we will need to market worldwide to achieve significant market penetration. If we are unable to obtain sufficient market share for our drug products at a high enough price, or obtain expanded approvals for larger markets, we may not achieve profitability or be able to independently continue our product development efforts. If we are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities or obtain regulatory approvals for our manufacturing facilities, or if our manufacturing process is found to infringe a valid patented process or processes of another company, then we may be unable to meet demand for our products and lose potential revenue. To complete our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates, if approved, we will need access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our product candidates. We have used manufacturing facilities we constructed in Houston, Texas to manufacture ADVEXIN therapy, INGN 241 and other product candidates for currently planned clinical trials. We anticipate our facilities are suitable for the initial commercial launch of ADVEXIN therapy. We have no experience manufacturing ADVEXIN therapy, INGN 241 or any other product candidates in the volumes necessary to support commercial sales. If we are unable to manufacture our product candidates in clinical or, when necessary, commercial quantities, then we will need to rely on third-party manufacturers to produce our products for clinical and commercial purposes. These third-party manufacturers must receive FDA approval before they can produce clinical material or commercial product. Our products may be in competition with other products for access to these facilities and may be subject to delays in manufacture if third parties give other products greater priority than ours. In addition, we may not be able to enter into any necessary third-party manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms. There are a limited number of contract manufacturers who currently have the capability to produce ADVEXIN therapy, INGN 241 or our other product candidates, and the inability of any of these contract manufacturers to deliver our required quantities of product candidates timely and at commercially reasonable prices would negatively affect our operations. Before we can begin commercially manufacturing ADVEXIN therapy, INGN 241 or any other product candidate, we must obtain regulatory approval of our manufacturing facilities and process. Manufacturing of our product candidates for clinical and commercial purposes must comply with the FDA’s CGMP requirements, and foreign regulatory requirements. The CGMP requirements govern quality control and documentation policies and procedures. In complying with CGMP and foreign regulatory requirements, we will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to assure the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. We must also pass a FDA inspection prior to FDA approval. Our current manufacturing facilities have not yet been subject to a Pre-Approval Inspection by the FDA or other global regulatory authorities. Failure to pass Pre-Approval Inspections may significantly delay approval of our products. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we would be subject to possible regulatory action and may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell our products. Further, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have the authority to perform unannounced periodic inspections of our manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with CGMP and foreign regulatory requirements. Our facilities in Houston, Texas are our only manufacturing facilities. If these facilities were to incur significant damage or destruction, then our ability to manufacture ADVEXIN therapy, INGN 241 or any other product candidates would be significantly hampered, and our pre-clinical testing, clinical trials and commercialization efforts would be delayed. 36 Table of Contents In order to produce our products in the quantities we believe will be required to meet anticipated market demand, if our products are approved, we will need to increase, or “scale-up,” our production process. If we are unable to do so, or if the cost of this scale-up is not economically viable to us, we may not be able to produce our products in a sufficient quantity to meet the requirements of future demand. Canji controls a United States patent and the corresponding international applications, including a European counterpart, relating to the purification of viral or adenoviral compositions. While we believe our manufacturing process does not infringe this patent, Canji could still assert a claim against us. We may also become subject to infringement claims or litigation if our manufacturing process infringes upon other patents. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits and related legal and administrative proceedings are costly and time-consuming to pursue, and their outcome is uncertain. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for some of our manufacturing materials. Any problems experienced by such suppliers could negatively affect our operations. We rely on third-party suppliers for most of the equipment, materials and supplies used in the manufacturing of ADVEXIN therapy, INGN 241 and our other product candidates. Some items critical to the manufacture of these product candidates are available from only a limited number of suppliers or vendors. We do not have supply agreements with these key suppliers. To mitigate the related supply risk, we maintain inventories of these items. Any significant problem experienced by one or more of this limited number of suppliers could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of materials to us until the supplier cures the problem or until we locate an alternative source of supply. Such problems would likely lead to a delay or interruption in our manufacturing operations or could require a significant modification to our manufacturing process, which could impair our ability to manufacture our product candidates in a timely manner and negatively affect our operations. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial damages and demand for our product candidates may be reduced. The testing and marketing of medical products is subject to an inherent risk of product liability claims. Regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our product candidates; • injury to our reputation and significant media attention; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; • substantial delay in FDA approval; • costs of litigation; and • substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. We currently maintain product liability insurance with coverage of $5.0 million per occurrence with a $10.0 million annual aggregate limit. This coverage may not be sufficient to protect us fully against product liability claims. We intend to expand our product liability insurance coverage beyond clinical trials to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against product liability claims could prevent or limit the commercialization of our products. We use hazardous materials in our business, and any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could harm our business. Our business involves the use of a broad range of hazardous chemicals and materials. Environmental laws impose stringent civil and criminal penalties for improper handling, disposal and storage of these materials. In addition, in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials, we could be subject to civil damages due to personal injury or property damage caused by the 37 Table of Contents release or exposure. A failure to comply with environmental laws could result in fines and the revocation of environmental permits, which could prevent us from conducting our business. Our stock price may fluctuate substantially. The market price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: • progress and results of our pre-clinical and clinical trials; • announcement of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patent and litigation matters; • publicity regarding actual or potential results with respect to products under development by us or by our competitors; • regulatory developments; • the announcement of new products by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • failure to achieve operating results projected by securities analysts; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • developments in our industry; and • general market conditions and other factors. In addition, stock prices for many companies in the technology and emerging growth sectors have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. If we do not progress in our programs as anticipated, our stock price could decrease. For planning purposes, we estimate the timing of a variety of clinical, regulatory and other milestones, such as when a certain product candidate will enter clinical development, when a clinical trial will be completed or when an application for regulatory approval will be filed. Some of our estimates are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our estimates are based on present facts and a variety of assumptions. Many of the underlying assumptions are outside of our control. If milestones are not achieved when we expect them to be, investors could be disappointed, and our stock price may decrease. Any acquisition we might make may be costly and difficult to integrate, may divert management resources or dilute stockholder value. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire assets or businesses principally relating to or complementary to our current operations, and we have in the past evaluated and discussed such opportunities with interested parties. Any acquisitions we undertake will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in business acquisitions. These risks include, among other things: • potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; • the difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses; • diversion of management time and attention and other resources; • loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management; • the incurrence of amortization expense; and • possible dilution to our stockholders. In addition, geographic distances may make the integration of businesses more difficult. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. 38 Table of Contents If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional, highly skilled personnel required to develop our products or obtain new collaborations, our business will suffer. We depend, to a significant extent, on the efforts of our key employees, including senior management and senior scientific, clinical, regulatory, manufacturing and other personnel. The development of new therapeutic products requires expertise from a number of different disciplines, some of which is not widely available. We depend upon our scientific staff to discover new product candidates and to develop and conduct pre-clinical studies of those new potential products. Our clinical and regulatory staff is responsible for the design and execution of clinical trials in accordance with FDA requirements and for the advancement of our product candidates toward FDA approval. Our manufacturing staff is responsible for designing and conducting our manufacturing processes in accordance with the FDA’s CGMP requirements. The quality and reputation of our scientific, clinical, regulatory and manufacturing staff, especially the senior staff, and their success in performing their responsibilities, are a basis on which we attract potential funding sources and collaborators. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers are involved in a broad range of critical activities, including providing strategic and operational guidance. The loss of these individuals, or our inability to retain or recruit other key management and scientific, clinical, regulatory, manufacturing and other personnel, may delay or prevent us from achieving our business objectives. We face intense competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” (SFAS No. 123R) is effective for us beginning the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. This statement requires that employee share-based compensation be measured based on its fair-value on the grant date and treated as an expense that is reflected in the financial statements over the related service period. While we are currently evaluating the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we anticipate that our adoption of SFAS No. 123R will have a significant impact on our results of operations for 2006 and subsequent periods. Our corporate governance structure, including provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and Delaware law, may prevent a change in control or management that stockholders may consider desirable. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company or discourage a third party from attempting to take over our company. These provisions include the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings, the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval and the fact that our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered thee-year terms. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of us or a change in our management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock or our other securities. 39 Table of Contents Some of our insiders are parties to transactions with us that may cause conflicting obligations. Dr. John N. Kapoor, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, is also associated with EJ Financial Enterprises, Inc. (EJ Financial), a healthcare investment firm that is wholly owned by him, and therefore may have conflicts of interest in allocating his time among us and his other business activities, and he may have legal obligations to multiple entities. We have entered into a consulting agreement with EJ Financial. The consulting agreement provides we will pay EJ Financial $175,000 per year for certain management consulting services, which is based on anticipated time spent by EJ Financial personnel on our affairs. EJ Financial is also involved in the management of healthcare companies in various fields, and Dr. Kapoor is involved in various capacities with the management and operation of these companies. In addition, EJ Financial is involved with other companies in the cancer field. Although these companies are pursuing different therapeutic approaches for the treatment of cancer, discoveries made by one or more of these companies could render our products less competitive or obsolete. David Parker, Ph.D., J.D., our Vice President, Intellectual Property, is a partner with the law firm Fulbright & Jaworski LLP, which provides legal services to us as our primary outside counsel for intellectual property matters. In October 2004, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Magnum Therapeutics Corporation (Magnum), a company owned at the time of this acquisition by one of our executive officers. We paid approximately $1.75 million for the Magnum stock by (1) issuing approximately 252,000 shares of our common stock valued at approximately $1.48 million at the acquisition date and (2) assuming liabilities of approximately $272,000. With respect to the common stock we issued for the acquisition, 50% of the shares were held by an independent escrow agent for a period of approximately one year subsequent to the acquisition date to satisfy the indemnification obligations of the selling shareholder under terms of the purchase agreement. Such shares have since been released from escrow. Magnum’s primary asset is the funding it receives under a research grant from the NIH, which supplements our ongoing research and development programs. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we earned $1.0 million of revenue under this grant. In the event certain of Magnum’s technologies result in commercial products, we may be obligated to pay royalties related to the sales of those products to certain third parties. We have relationships with Jack A. Roth, M.D., and M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, both of whom are affiliated with The Board of Regents of the University of Texas System, one of our stockholders. For more information concerning these relationships, see our “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” beginning on page F-7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe the foregoing transactions with insiders were and are in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders. However, the transactions may cause conflicts of interest with respect to those insiders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 