RISK FACTORS The Company is exposed to certain risks that arise from the activity of developing and manufacturing drug products. Extensive government regulation may cause increased costs and delays in developing and marketing products The Company is subject to extensive government regulation. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (‘‘FDA’’), the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (‘‘EMEA’’) and other national regulatory authorities require rigorous pre-clinical testing, clinical trials and other procedures prior to approving drugs for human use. Numerous regulations also govern the manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, reporting and marketing of such drugs. These requirements vary widely from country to country, as does the time required to complete pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and to obtain regulatory approvals to sell drugs. The process of obtaining these approvals and complying with applicable government regulations is time consuming and expensive. If the FDA or other national regulatory authorities increase the number of clinical trials required for the approval of drugs, the Company could face increased costs and significant development delays before the Company will be able to sell its products commercially. In addition, changes in regulatory policy or additional regulations adopted during product development could also result in delays or rejections in obtaining marketing approvals from regulatory authorities. Most of the products that the Company develops will require a new drug application (‘‘NDA’’) filing with the FDA before they can be marketed in the United States. Based on current practice, the Company generally expects it to take less than two years from the date of filing for the FDA to approve an NDA for a product formulation. However, the Company cannot predict the exact time required or the outcome of the approval process for any of its product candidates with any certainty. A number of products using the Company’s technologies have not yet been approved for marketing by regulators. These product candidates are at various stages of development, ranging from pre-clinical studies to Phase III clinical trials and those that have been filed for approval. The Company cannot be certain that its product candidates will prove safe and effective in clinical trials or that it will obtain further regulatory approvals of any such products. These products will require expensive and lengthy testing and regulatory clearances before they can be sold commercially. Products for which the Company obtains regulatory approval may not succeed in the market Although the Company carries out commercial feasibility assessments and extensive clinical trials on all its products before they are launched, newly launched products may not achieve broad market acceptance. The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical product involves a substantial investment in sales and marketing costs, launch stocks and other items. If a new product cannot be manufactured at an acceptable cost or does not succeed as anticipated or its rate of sales growth is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, pre-clinical testing or clinical testing may not accurately predict safety or effectiveness in broader human use. For a new product, it can be difficult to establish from available data a meaningful and reliable assessment of its eventual efficacy and/or safety in the market. Competition and technological change may render the Company’s products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete The drug development industry is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, with significant developments expected to continue at a rapid pace. The Company’s success will depend on maintaining a 9 competitive position and developing efficient and cost-effective products and technologies. The Company’s products will compete with other drugs and methods for delivering drugs. The Company cannot be certain that any of its products will have advantages that will be significant enough to cause medical professionals to prescribe or recommend them. New drugs or further development in alternative drug delivery methods may provide greater benefits or may offer comparable performance at lower cost than the Company’s products or technologies. The Company cannot be certain that developments by other companies will not render its products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. Many of the Company’s competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, marketing and other resources. Such competitors may prove to be more successful in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing their products than the Company because of greater financial resources, stronger sales and marketing teams or other factors. The Company will face competition with respect to the products it is developing under its collaborative arrangements with leading pharmaceutical companies including competition from other products developed and produced by the Company’s collaborative partners and branded and generic products manufactured by other companies. The Company’s business may give rise to product liability claims not covered by insurance or indemnification The design, development and manufacture of the Company’s products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims. Although the Company generally relies on indemnity provisions in its agreements with its collaborative partners to protect itself against the possibility of product liability claims, the Company has obtained product liability insurance in respect of pharmaceutical products it is developing in conjunction with such partners. This product liability insurance also covers liabilities associated with the commercial sale of products marketed by third parties using the Company’s technology. The Company has also obtained clinical trial insurance for current human clinical trials and bio-equivalence studies involving its products under development and intends to obtain insurance for future clinical trials and bio-equivalence studies of additional products under development. The Company believes that its product liability and clinical trial insurance, together with the indemnity provisions in its collaborative agreements, is adequate for current operations. However, the coverage limits of this insurance and the indemnity provisions in the Company’s collaborative agreements may not be adequate to cover all potential claims. Product liability and clinical trial insurance is expensive and may be difficult to obtain or maintain on commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim against the Company in excess of the Company’s insurance coverage or outside the scope of the indemnity given by its collaborative partners could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s revenues may be reduced and costs increased as a result of third-party payor cost containment measures The Company’s ability to achieve profitability in its businesses depends in part on the extent to which appropriate levels of reimbursement for products and related treatments are obtained from government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of pharmaceutical products and seeking ways to replace more expensive pharmaceuticals with cheaper alternatives. The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States and the growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations in the United States could significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, thereby resulting in lower prices and reduced demand for the Company’s products under development. Such cost 10 containment measures could affect the Company’s ability to sell products under development and may adversely affect the Company. Healthcare reform proposals may adversely affect the Company’s business The efforts of governments to contain or reduce the cost of health care will continue to affect the business and financial condition of drug companies. A series of health care reform proposals announced in recent years have created uncertainty that could adversely affect the Company’s ability to raise funds and to identify and reach agreements with potential partners. Such proposals could adversely affect the Company’s business. Furthermore, the Company’s ability to commercialize potential products may be adversely affected to the extent such proposals have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and profitability of other companies that are the Company’s current or prospective collaborators for some of such products. The Company may not be able to divest its injectable business interests In late 2005 and early 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company conducted a full strategic review and concluded that in the interests of achieving sustainable profitability in the near term, and in order to improve the Company’s cash position, the Company should concentrate on oral and inhalation products, and divest its injectable business interests. A sale of these interests would include the sale of the manufacturing and other facilities in San Diego, California. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to agree on suitable terms of sale with an appropriate purchaser, or that any sale would ultimately be completed. A failure to divest the Company’s injectable business interests could prevent the Company from executing its strategy and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Moreover, until such time as the Company is able to divest its injectable business interests, it remains subject to certain risks inherent in the licensing and manufacturing of DepoFoam™ as described elsewhere in these Risk Factors. The Company’s near term working capital requirements are uncertain and sensitive to the timing of a number of initiatives required to provide the financial flexibility to implement its new strategy The Company’s working capital requirements continue to be affected by the timing and receipt of milestone payments and payments received on the signing of new contracts. The Company’s future cash flows will also be impacted by the Company’s change in strategy, principally its stated aim of moving to sustainable profitability in the near term and its refocus to concentrate on oral and pulmonary products. Consequently the Company’s near term working capital requirements are uncertain and sensitive to the timing of a number of initiatives required to provide the financial flexibility to implement the new strategy. These initiatives include the licensing of Flutiform™ in Europe, the divestment of the Company’s injectable business interests, which is expected to require shareholder approval, or the US licensing for DepoBupivacaine. The Company’s independent auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, have included an emphasis of matter paragraph related to going concern in their auditors’ report, which refers to Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 to this Annual Report stating that there is uncertainty as to when certain strategic initiatives may be concluded impacting the Group’s working capital requirements. The audit opinion has not been qualified in this respect. The Board of Directors has reviewed the working capital requirements of the Group for the next twelve months and has a reasonable expectation that sufficient funds will be raised from these initiatives and has therefore prepared the financial information contained herein on the basis that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The financial statements do not reflect any 11 adjustments that would be required to be made if they were to be prepared on a basis other than a going concern basis. In the event that sufficient funds are not raised by the Company’s initiatives and currently available funds and internally generated cash flow are not sufficient to satisfy its financing needs, the Company will be required to seek additional funding through other arrangements with corporate collaborators, through bank borrowings or through public or private sales of its securities, including equity securities. Any such collaboration could result in limitations on the resources the Company could devote to research, development and commercialization of new products and product candidates, if any, as well as its profits therefrom. In addition, the terms of any future bank borrowings could place restrictions on the Company’s ability to take certain actions, and any equity financing could result in dilution to the Company’s shareholders. The Company does not currently have any committed sources of additional capital. For more information on the Company’s liquidity and capital resources, see ‘‘Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects’’. The Company’s revenues tend to fluctuate The Company’s revenues principally derive from contract development. Contract development revenues include milestone payments and that portion of the Company’s research and development expenses that the Company charges to its partners pursuant to collaborative arrangements with these partners. The amount of the Company’s contract development revenue in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including scientific developments, the ability of the Company to find suitable partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of agreements with such partners, whether and when the Company achieves milestones agreed with its partners, such as the timing of regulatory approvals and the market introduction of new products, and other factors. As a result, the Company’s revenues tend to fluctuate materially on a monthly, semi-annually and yearly basis. The Company believes that its revenues will continue to fluctuate in the near to medium term as a result of the factors described above. The Company may not achieve and sustain profitability In 2005, SkyePharma reported a full year net loss of £50.9 million and in 2004 a full year net loss of £18.6 million. As a result of these losses, the Company’s consolidated net assets at December 31, 2005 declined to £31.9 million, compared with £36.5 million at December 31, 2004. If and when the Company achieves profitability is dependent upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone payments and license fees received, the timing of contract development revenues and the amount of discretionary investment the Company chooses to make in furthering its own product portfolio. As a consequence, the Company cannot assure you that it will be able to achieve and sustain profitability. See ‘‘Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects’’. In late 2005 and early 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company conducted a full strategic review and concluded that in the interests of achieving sustainable profitability in the near term, and in order to improve the Company’s cash flow position, the Company should concentrate on oral and inhalation products, and divest its injectable business interests. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to agree on suitable terms of sale with an appropriate purchaser, or that any sale would ultimately be completed. Other factors that will affect whether the Company achieves and sustains profitability include its ability, alone or together with its partners, to: · develop products utilizing its technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical companies; 12 · receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; · establish and expand its manufacturing; · achieve market acceptance for its products; · receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities in line with the Company’s current forecasts; and · maintain sufficient funds to finance its activities. The Company is dependent on its various technologies, as to which further successful development is uncertain The Company’s ability to increase revenues and achieve profitability is largely dependent on certain of its technologies. Approximately 36% of the Company’s revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 derived from royalties, product sales, contract development and milestone payments relating to its Geomatrix™ technologies, approximately 20% from royalties, product sales, contract development and milestone payments relating to its inhalation technologies and approximately 17% from royalties, product sales, contract development and milestone payments relating to its DepoFoam™ technologies. In late 2005 and early 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company conducted a full strategic review and concluded that in the interests of achieving sustainable profitability in the near term, and in order to improve the Company’s cash flow position, the Company should concentrate on oral and inhalation products, and divest its injectable business interests. In order to increase revenues from its technologies, the Company must continue to obtain new development contracts with third parties or develop, license and manufacture new formulations of commercially available drugs using these technologies. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain such contracts or successfully develop new formulations internally. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to develop successfully future products using its various technologies. The development and formulation of oral and injectable controlled release and inhalation products is difficult and time-consuming. Each drug compound is different, and there can be no assurance that a drug delivery system that works with one product will work with another. Even after a product incorporating the Company’s technologies has been successfully formulated and approved, its commercial success is not assured. In order to gain medical and commercial acceptance, a product generally must demonstrate some performance improvements and other benefits over products incorporating the same or similar drug compounds. In some cases, these benefits may be difficult to establish. Failure by the Company’s collaborative partners to fulfil their obligations to the Company to provide funding, obtain regulatory approvals and conduct marketing activities could adversely affect the Company’s business The Company’s ability to develop and market its present and future products depends in large part on its ability to maintain its existing, and enter into new collaborations with third parties. If any of the Company’s partners becomes insolvent or terminates or otherwise fails to fulfil its obligations with the Company, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. In particular, the Company faces the following risks with respect to collaborative partners: · Funding. The Company has entered into a number of collaborative arrangements with various pharmaceutical companies for the development and commercialization of products using its technologies. Some of the Company’s collaborative partners are, however, development stage companies whose business prospects are uncertain and who face similar risks as the Company. If the Company becomes unable to continue to obtain funding for its development activities through its collaborative arrangements or if its collaborative partners fail to make payments due under the 13 development and commercialization agreements, the Company’s business would be adversely affected. · Regulatory Approvals. The Company generally depends upon its collaborative partners to secure the necessary regulatory approvals of new pharmaceutical formulations utilizing its technologies. In these cases, the Company has no control over the timing of the regulatory filings and in which countries they may be filed. Its partners may follow a regulatory strategy that does not maximize the royalty income that the Company may receive from its technologies. In addition, the Company’s partners may choose not to file for regulatory approval of a product successfully formulated with its technologies. Even if the Company’s partners do file for regulatory approval, they may fail to devote the necessary resources and expertise to secure approval. · Marketing. At present, the Company is not involved in the direct marketing of new products formulated with its technologies and therefore depends on its collaborative partners for such marketing and sales from which it earns revenues including royalties. The Company’s future revenues largely depend on the success of such marketing efforts, which are beyond its control. For example, Paxil CR™ was approved by the FDA in February 1999 but was not launched by GlaxoSmithKline PLC (‘‘GlaxoSmithKline’’) until April 2002 and in March 2005 GlaxoSmithKline announced that the FDA had halted supplies of Paxil CR™ due to manufacturing issues. GlaxoSmithKline announced the resupply of Paxil CR™ on June 27, 2005. A failure to obtain and maintain patents and other proprietary rights may adversely affect the Company’s business The Company’s success, competitive position and the amount of milestone and royalty income it receives each depend, in part, on its ability to obtain and maintain patent and other intellectual property protection, particularly for its drug delivery and formulation technologies. Such patent and other intellectual property protection is also important to the Company’s business and its future performance will depend in part on its ability to obtain and maintain such protection. The Company’s performance will also be affected by its ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. While the Company intends to obtain patents covering as many of its technologies as possible, the process of obtaining patents is lengthy and expensive. There can be no assurance that patents will be granted in connection with any of the Company’s currently pending or future applications or that they will be valid and of sufficient scope and strength to provide the Company with meaningful legal protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the countries in which the Company does business. The laws of some foreign countries do not afford the Company’s inventions the same degree of legal protection as the laws of the United States. In addition, patent laws may change over time. The Company cannot predict the effect that any such changes would have on its business and its ability to protect its current and future products and technologies. If the Company fails to obtain and maintain sufficient protection for its current and future products and technologies, its ability to successfully commercialize these products and technologies could be adversely affected. The Company, from time to time, may receive notifications of alleged infringement of patents owned by third parties. The Company may not, in all cases, be able to successfully defend itself in court or resolve such allegations through licensing or settlement. Moreover, whether or not the Company is successful in enforcing its own patents or in defending itself against claims of alleged infringements of patents owned by third parties, doing so is time-consuming and costly and may result in the diversion of management resources. The Company also relies on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information in its product and technology development activities. To the extent that the Company relies on trade secrets and 14 unpatented proprietary information to maintain its competitive position, there can be no assurance that others may not independently develop the same or similar products or technologies. The Company seeks to protect trade secrets and proprietary information, in some cases through clauses in confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators. Nevertheless, these agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of the Company’s proprietary information and may not provide the Company with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. If the Company’s employees, scientific consultants or collaborators develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to the Company’s products or technologies under development, disputes may arise about ownership of proprietary rights to those inventions and processes. Such inventions and processes will not necessarily become the Company’s property, but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of the Company’s proprietary rights. Failure to protect patent or other unprotected proprietary information, for any reason, would adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company has entered into a number of collaborative arrangements with leading pharmaceutical companies for the development and commercialization of products. In connection therewith, the Company shares certain of its proprietary knowledge with such collaborative partners. Although the Company’s patents and other proprietary rights are intended to protect the Company from infringement by such collaborative partners, there can be no assurance that the Company’s patents or other proprietary rights will prevent its collaborative partners from developing similar or functionally equivalent products. In addition, the Company’s arrangements with its collaborative partners frequently contain representations, warranties and other assurances given by the Company regarding the scope of its own intellectual property and the non-infringement by the Company of intellectual property owned by third parties. If the Company were found to be in breach of any of these provisions, its partners could sue the Company for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company also engages in collaborations, sponsored research agreements and other arrangements with academic researchers and institutions, some of which have received and may receive funding from government agencies. Although the Company seeks to retain ownership of all intellectual property rights pertaining to inventions which may result from such collaborations, there can be no assurance that the governments, institutions, researchers or other third parties will not also have certain rights to such inventions. For more information on the Company’s patents and proprietary rights, see ‘‘