ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS DOWNTURNS IN THE INDUSTRY, PARTICULARLY IN THE MACHINE TOOL, AUTOMOTIVE, AND SEMICONDUCTOR AND ELECTRONICS INDUSTRIES MAY HAVE, IN THE FUTURE, A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR SALES AND PROFITABILITY. Our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures particularly by manufacturers in the machine tool, automotive, and semiconductor and electronics industries. We estimate that approximately 56% of our laser sales during fiscal year 2006 were to these three industry markets. These industries are cyclical and have historically experienced periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products manufactured and marketed by us. For the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures in these industries, which, in turn, depend upon the market demand for their products. Decreased demand from manufacturers in these industries, for example, during a downturn, may lead to decreased demand for our products. Although such decreased demand would reduce our sales, we may not be able to reduce expenses quickly, due in part to the need for continual investment in research and development and the need to maintain extensive ongoing customer service and support capability. Although we order materials for assembly in response to firm orders, the lead time for assembly and delivery of some of our products creates a risk that we may incur expenditures or purchase inventories for products which we cannot sell. Accordingly, any downturn or slowdown in the machine tool, automotive, and semiconductor and electronics industries could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A HIGH PERCENTAGE OF OUR SALES ARE OVERSEAS AND OUR RESULTS ARE THEREFORE SUBJECT TO THE IMPACT OF EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS. Although we report our results in U.S. dollars, approximately 61% of our current sales are denominated in other currencies, including the Euro, Swedish krona, British pound, Singapore dollar, Japanese yen, Korean won, Taiwanese NT dollar, Canadian dollar, and Chinese RMB. The fluctuation of the Euro, and the other functional currencies, against the U.S. dollar has had the effect of increasing and decreasing (as applicable) reported net sales as well as cost of goods sold and gross margin and selling, general and administrative expenses denominated in such foreign currencies when translated into U.S. dollars as compared to prior periods. Our subsidiaries will, from time to time, pay dividends in their respective functional currencies, thus presenting another area of potential currency exposure for us in the future. We also face transaction risk from fluctuations in exchange rates between the various currencies in which we do business. We believe that a certain portion of the transaction risk of our operations in multiple currencies is mitigated by our hedging activities, utilizing forward exchange contracts and forward exchange options. We also continue to borrow in each operating subsidiary’s functional currency to reduce exposure to exchange gains and losses. However, there can be no assurance that changes in currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 OUR INABILITY TO MANAGE THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our products are currently marketed in approximately 40 countries, with Germany, the rest of Europe, the United States and the Asia/Pacific region being our principal markets. Our operations and sales in our principal markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: • the general political and economic conditions in each such country or region; • overlap of differing tax structures; • management of an organization spread over various jurisdictions; and • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, such as import and export licensing requirements and trade restrictions. Our failure to manage the risks associated with our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability may be adversely affected by economic slowdowns in the United States, Europe, or the Asia/Pacific region. A recession in these economies could trigger a decline in laser sales to the machine tool, automotive, or semiconductor/electronics industries, and any related weaknesses in their respective currencies could adversely affect customer demand for our products, the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency denominated sales, and ultimately our consolidated results of operations. WE DEPEND ON THE ABILITY OF OUR OEM-CUSTOMERS TO INCORPORATE OUR LASER PRODUCTS INTO THEIR SYSTEMS. Our sales depend in part upon the ability of our OEM-customers to develop and sell systems that incorporate our laser products. Adverse economic conditions, large inventory positions, limited marketing resources, and other factors affecting these OEM-customers could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. We cannot provide assurances that our OEM-customers will not experience financial or other difficulties that could adversely affect their operations and, in turn, our financial condition or results of operations. WE EXPERIENCED IN THE PAST, AND EXPECT TO EXPERIENCE IN THE FUTURE, FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY RESULTS. THESE FLUCTUATIONS MAY INCREASE THE VOLATILITY OF OUR STOCK PRICE. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience some fluctuations in our quarterly results. We believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market prices of our common stock, on the NASDAQ National Market and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. Factors which may have an influence on the Company’s operating results in a particular quarter include: • the timing of the receipt of orders from major customers; • product mix; • competitive pricing pressures; • the relative proportions of domestic and international sales; • our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; • the delayed effect of incurrence of expenses to develop and improve marketing and service capabilities; • foreign currency fluctuations; • ability of our suppliers to produce and deliver components and parts, including sole or limited source components, in a timely manner, in the quantity desired and at the prices we have budgeted; • our ability to control expenses; and • costs related to acquisitions of businesses. 18 These and other factors make it difficult for us to release precise predictions regarding the results and the development of our business. In addition, our backlog at any given time is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. As our delivery schedule typically ranges from one week to six months, our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received. Moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments and production difficulties could delay shipments. Accordingly, the Company’s results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter. See also “Business-Order Backlog”. Other factors that we believe may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, include announcements of new products, technologies or customers by us or our competitors, developments with respect to intellectual property and shortfalls in our operations relative to analysts’ expectations. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general, and the shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced wide price fluctuations. These broad market and industry fluctuations, particularly in the semiconductor and electronics and automotive industries, may adversely affect the market prices of our common stock on the NASDAQ and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. THE MARKETS FOR OUR PRODUCTS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AND INCREASED COMPETITION COULD INCREASE OUR COSTS, REDUCE OUR SALES OR CAUSE US TO LOSE MARKET SHARE. The laser industry is characterized by significant price and technical competition. Our current and proposed laser products for macro and marking and micro applications compete with those of several well-established companies, some of which are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, and larger installed customer bases than us. We believe that competition will be particularly intense in the CO2, diode laser, and solid-state laser markets, as many companies have committed significant research and development resources to pursue opportunities in these markets. There can be no assurance that we will successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from the products of our competitors or that the market place will consider our products to be superior to competing products. Because many of the components required to develop and produce a laser-based marking system are commercially available, barriers to entry into this market are relatively low, and we expect new competitive product entries in this market. To maintain our competitive position in these markets, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in engineering, research and development, marketing, and customer service and support. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments, that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain our competitive position, or that our products will receive market acceptance. See also “Business - Competition”. OUR FUTURE GROWTH AND COMPETITIVENESS DEPEND UPON OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP NEW AND ENHANCED PRODUCTS TO MEET MARKET DEMAND AND TO INCREASE OUR MARKET SHARE FOR LASER MARKING AND MICRO PRODUCTS. If we are to increase our laser sales in the near term, these sales will have to come through increases in market share for our existing products, through the development of new products, or through the acquisition of competitors or their products. To date, a substantial portion of our revenues has been derived from sales of high-powered CO2 laser sources, solid-state laser sources, and diode lasers. In order to increase market demand for these products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: • continuing to broaden our CO2 laser product range; • continuing to increase the output power of our CO2 laser sources, diode lasers, and diode pumped, solid-state laser products; and • continuing to reduce the manufacturing costs of our product range to achieve more attractive pricing. A large part of our growth strategy depends upon being able to increase our worldwide market share for laser marking and micro products. 19 Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate our customers’ needs and develop products that address those needs. Our ability to control costs is limited by our need to invest in research and development. If we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new and enhanced products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We cannot provide assurance that we will successfully implement our business strategy or that any of the newly developed or enhanced products will achieve market acceptance or not be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by products of other companies. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business - The Company’s Laser Products”. IF WE LOSE OUR KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR BUSINESS OR ACHIEVE OUR OBJECTIVES. Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. These key employees include technical, sales and support personnel for our operations on a worldwide basis. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. If we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY ACQUIRE NEW OPERATIONS OR INTEGRATE FUTURE ACQUISITIONS, WHICH COULD CAUSE OUR BUSINESS TO SUFFER. An important part of our growth strategy is making strategic acquisitions of companies with complementary operations or products. We may be unable to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In connection with future acquisitions, we may assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire. Any debt that we incur to pay for future acquisition could contain covenants that restrict the manner in which we operate our business. Any new equity securities that we issue for this purpose would be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company or division’s personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. In addition: • the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; • we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management and financial reporting; • we may be held liable for risks and liabilities (including for environmental-related costs) as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not discover during our due diligence; • our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; and • we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. WE DEPEND ON LIMITED SOURCE SUPPLIERS THAT COULD CAUSE SUBSTANTIAL MANUFACTURING DELAYS AND INCREASE OUR COSTS IF A DISRUPTION IN SUPPLY OCCURS. We estimate that 18% of our revenues are derived from sales of products that require specialized components only available from single sources. We also rely on a limited number of independent contractors to manufacture subassemblies for some of our products. There can be no assurance that, in the future, our current or alternative sources will be able to meet all of our demands on a timely basis. If one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors experiences difficulties that result in a reduction or interruption in supply to us, or if they fail to meet any of our manufacturing requirements, our business could be harmed until we are able to secure alternative sources, if any. If we are unable to find necessary parts or components on commercially reasonable terms, we could be required to reengineer our products to accommodate available substitutions which would increase our costs and/or have a material adverse effect on manufacturing schedules, product performance and market acceptance. 20 OUR FAILURE TO PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY OR TO AVOID LITIGATION FOR INFRINGEMENT OR MISAPPROPRIATION OF PROPRIETARY RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES COULD RESULT IN A LOSS OF REVENUES AND PROFITS. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging infringement of such parties’ patent or other proprietary rights by our products. While these notices are common in the laser industry and we have in the past been able to develop non-infringing technology or license necessary patents or technology on commercially reasonable terms, there can be no assurance that we would in the future prevail in any litigation seeking damages or expenses from us or to enjoin us from selling its products on the basis of such alleged infringement, or that we would be able to develop any non-infringing technology or license any valid and infringed patents on commercially reasonable terms. In the event any third party made a valid claim against us or our customers and a license was not made available to us on commercially reasonable terms, we would be adversely affected. Our future success depends in part upon our intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation or that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. We currently hold 158 United States and foreign patents on our laser sources, with expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2024. We have also obtained licenses under certain patents covering lasers and related technology incorporated into our products. Of particular importance is the license of three patents related to the sales of our Slab Series CO2 lasers, which we estimate to account for approximately 21% of our revenue. In addition, 44 patent applications have been filed and are under review by the relevant patent authorities. There can be no assurance that other companies are not investigating or developing other technologies that are similar to ours, that any patents will issue from any application filed by us or that, if patents do issue, the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from marketing similar products. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights thereunder will provide a competitive advantage to us. See also “Business - Intellectual Property.” ANY DEFECTS IN OUR PRODUCTS OR CUSTOMER PROBLEMS ARISING FROM THE USE OF OUR PRODUCTS MAY SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS AND REPUTATION. Our laser products are technologically complex and may contain known and undetected errors or performance problems. In addition, performance problems can also be caused by the improper installation of our products by a customer. These errors or performance problems could result in customer dissatisfaction, which could harm our sales or customer relationships. In addition, these problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 