Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to other information contained in this report and in the documents incorporated by reference herein, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. These factors could have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by disruptions in the marketplace caused by economic and political conditions. Global economic and political conditions affect our clients’ businesses and the markets they serve. A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could adversely affect our clients’ financial condition and the levels and types of business activity engaged in by our clients and the industries we serve. Clients could determine that discretionary projects are no longer viable or that new projects are not advisable. This may reduce demand for our services, depress pricing for our services or render certain of our services obsolete, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in global economic conditions or the regulatory or legislative landscape could also shift demand to services that we do not offer or for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of new business that we are able to obtain. Although we have implemented ongoing cost management measures, if we are unable to appropriately manage costs or if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be adversely affected. Additionally, significant economic turmoil or financial market disruptions could also adversely impact the availability of financing to our clients and therefore may adversely impact our ability to collect amounts due from our clients or cause them to terminate their contracts with us, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We cannot be assured that we will have access to sufficient sources of capital to meet our working capital needs or the future needs of our business. In May 2011, we entered into a new unsecured credit agreement with a syndicate of banks. The credit agreement provides us a five-year $400.0 million revolving credit facility, which may be increased to $500.0 million at our option, subject to the terms and conditions specified in the credit agreement. We use the credit facility to assist in funding our short-term working capital and long-term cash requirements. At December 31, 2011, we had $131.8 million in borrowings outstanding under the credit facility. There can be no assurance that the credit facility will continue to be sufficient to meet the future needs of our business, particularly if a decline in our financial performance occurs. If this occurs, and we are unable to otherwise increase our operating cash flows or raise additional capital or obtain other debt financing, we may be unable to meet our future working capital needs or, for example, consummate future acquisitions. Furthermore, if our clients’ financial condition were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments to us, our financial position and operating cash flows would be adversely impacted. Lastly, certain financial institutions that are lenders under our credit facility could be adversely impacted by a depressed economy and therefore unable to meet their commitments under our credit facility, which in turn would reduce the amounts available to us under that facility. Our failure to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. Our credit agreement contains financial covenants requiring, among other things, certain levels of interest and debt coverage. Poor financial performance could cause us to be in default of these covenants. While we were in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2011, there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance in the future. Our borrowings under our credit facility tend to be higher during the first half of the year to fund annual incentive payments, and as a result, our consolidated leverage ratio is expected to increase from December 31, 2011 levels. If we fail to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement, this could result in our having to seek an amendment or waiver from our lenders to avoid the termination of their commitments and/or the acceleration of the maturity of outstanding amounts under the credit facility. The cost of our obtaining an amendment or waiver could be significant, and further, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain an amendment or waiver. If our lenders were unwilling to enter into an amendment or provide a waiver, all amounts outstanding under our credit facility would become immediately due and payable. We have variable rate indebtedness which subjects us to interest rate risk and may cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our credit facility are at variable rates of interest which expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and in turn, our net income would decrease. Our business could be impacted by competition and regulatory and legislative changes. The market for consulting services is highly competitive, highly fragmented, and subject to rapid change. The market includes a large number of participants with a variety of skills and industry expertise, including general management and information technology consulting firms, as well as the global accounting firms and other local, regional, national, and international consulting firms. Many of these firms are international in scope and have larger teams of personnel, financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some firms may have lower overhead and other costs and, therefore, may be able to more effectively compete through lower cost service offerings. Many of our clients operate in highly regulated industries such as healthcare, energy, financial services and insurance. Regulatory and legislative changes in these industries potentially render certain of our service offerings obsolete and decrease our competitive position. If we cannot compete effectively, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely impacted. 9 Table of Contents Our inability to successfully recruit and retain senior-level consultants will affect our ability to win new engagements and compete effectively. We rely heavily on a group of senior-level consultants, and we believe our future success is dependent on our ability to retain their services. Competition for skilled consultants is intense, and compensation and retention related issues are a continuing challenge. The consulting industry has low barriers to entry making it easy for consultants to start their own business or work independently. In addition, it is relatively easy for consultants to change employers. Further, limitations on available shares under our equity compensation plans or a sustained decline in our stock price could also impair our ability to offer share-based compensation as incentives to our senior-level consultants. Our inability to attract, retain and motivate our senior-level consultants, as well as corporate management, could have an adverse effect on our ability to win new client engagements or meet client needs in our current engagements, and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, our failure to realize the expected financial returns from our recruiting investments could adversely impact our results of operations. Our revenues and profitability may suffer if we are not able to maintain current bill rates and/or utilization rates. Our revenues, and in turn our profitability, are largely based on the bill rates charged to clients and the number of hours our consultants work on client engagements, which we define as the “utilization” of our consultants. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the bill rates for our services or appropriate utilization rates for our consultants, our revenues, profit margins and profitability may suffer. Bill rates and consultant utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: • Our ability to predict future demand for our services and maintain the appropriate staffing levels without significant underutilized consulting personnel; • Our ability to transition consultants from completed projects to new client engagements; • Our clients’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our services; • Our competitors’ pricing of services; • The market demand for our services; • Our ability to manage our human capital resources; • Our ability to manage significantly larger and more diverse workforces as we increase the number of our consultants and execute our growth strategies; and • The economic, political and regulatory environment as noted above. Additionally, the profitability of our fixed-fee client engagements may not meet our expectations if we underestimate the cost of these engagements. Our inability to attract business from new or existing clients could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Many of our client engagement agreements are short term in nature (less than one year) and can be terminated by our clients with little or no notice and without penalty. For example, in our litigation-related engagements, if the litigation is settled, our services usually are no longer necessary and our engagement is promptly terminated. Some of our services involve multiple engagements or stages. In those engagements, there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for the additional stages of an engagement or that a client will cancel or delay additional planned engagements. Our client engagements are usually relatively short term in comparison to our office-related expenses and other infrastructure commitments. 10 Table of Contents In the past, we have derived significant revenues from events as inherently unpredictable as the California energy crisis, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, healthcare reform, the credit crisis and significant natural disasters including major hurricanes and earthquakes. Those events, in addition to being unpredictable, often have impacts that decline over time as clients adjust to and compensate for the challenges they face. These factors also limit our ability to predict future revenues and make corresponding adjustments to our consulting staffing levels, which in turn could adversely impact our results of operations. Unsuccessful client engagements could result in damage to our professional reputation or legal liability which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our professional reputation and that of our consultants is critical to our ability to successfully compete for new client engagements and attract and retain employees. Any factors that damage our professional reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our client engagements subject us to the risk of legal liability. Any public assertion or litigation alleging that our services were deficient or that we breached any of our obligations to a client could expose us to significant legal liabilities, distract our management and damage our reputation. Our professional insurance may not cover every type of claim or liability that could potentially arise from our client engagements. In addition, the limits of our insurance coverage may not be enough to cover a particular claim or a group of claims and the costs of defense. Some of the work we do involves greater risk than ordinary consulting engagements. We do work for clients that for financial, legal or other reasons may present higher than normal risks. While we attempt to identify and mitigate our exposure with respect to higher risk engagements and higher risk clients, these efforts may be ineffective and an actual or alleged error or omission on our part or the part of our client or other third parties in one or more of these higher-risk engagements could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Examples of higher risk engagements include, but are not limited to: • Interim management engagements, including those for hospitals and other healthcare providers; • Engagements where we assist clients in complying with healthcare-related regulatory requirements, including clinical documentation improvement training and auditing services, revenue cycle and operational performance improvement services, billing services, medical record coding and auditing services, strategic consulting for hospital and health system merger and affiliation, and independent review organization assignments • Corporate restructuring engagements, both inside and outside bankruptcy proceedings; • Engagements where we deliver a fairness opinion; • Engagements where we deliver project management services for large construction projects; • Engagements where we receive or process sensitive data, including personal consumer or private health information; • Engagements where we deliver a compliance effectiveness opinion; and • Engagements involving independent consultants’ reports in support of financings. We encounter professional conflicts of interest. If we are unable to accept new engagements for any reason, including business and legal conflicts, our consultants may become underutilized or discontented, which may adversely affect our future revenues and results of operations, as well as our ability to retain these consultants. In addition, although we have systems and procedures to identify potential conflicts of interest prior to accepting a new engagement, there is no guarantee that all potential conflicts of interest will be identified and undetected conflicts may result in damage to our reputation and result in professional liability which may adversely impact our business and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our international operations create special risks. We have offices in the United Kingdom, Canada, Hong Kong, Dubai and other cities outside of the U.S. and conduct business in several other countries. We expect to continue to expand globally and our international revenues may account for an increasing portion of our revenues in the future. Our international operations carry special financial, business and legal risks, including: • Cultural and language differences; • Employment laws and related factors that could result in lower utilization, higher staffing costs, and cyclical fluctuations of utilization and revenues; • Currency fluctuations that adversely affect our financial position and operating results; • Differing regulatory requirements and other barriers to conducting business; • Impact on consulting spend from international firms and global economies impacted by the European sovereign debt crisis and related government and economic response • Managing the risks associated with engagements performed by employees and independent contractors with foreign officials and governmental agencies, including the risks arising from the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • Greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations, including in high risk geographies; • Successful entry and execution in new markets; • Restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and • Potentially adverse tax consequences, such as net operating loss carry forwards that cannot be realized. If we are not able to successfully mitigate the special risks associated with our international operations, our business prospects and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our work with governmental clients has inherent risks related to the governmental contracting process. We work for various United States, state, local, and foreign governmental entities and agencies. These projects have special risks that include, but are not limited to, the following: • Governmental agencies generally reserve the right to audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs, and conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to governmental contracts. If the governmental entity finds that the costs are not reimbursable, then we will not be allowed to bill for them or the cost must be refunded to the governmental entity if it has already been paid to us. Findings from an audit also may result in our being required to prospectively adjust previously agreed rates for work which would affect our future profit margins. • If a governmental client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of its audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of that government. • Governmental contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than other commercial contracts. Negative publicity related to our governmental contracts, regardless of whether it is accurate, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. The impact of any of the occurrences or conditions described above could affect not only our relationship with the particular governmental agency involved, but also other agencies of the same or other governmental entities. Depending on the size of the engagement or the magnitude of the potential costs, penalties or negative publicity involved, any of these occurrences or conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We have invested in specialized technology and other intellectual property for which we may fail to fully recover our investment or which may become obsolete. We have invested in developing specialized technology and intellectual property, including proprietary systems, processes and methodologies, that we believe provide us a competitive advantage in serving our current clients and winning new engagements. Many of our service offerings rely on specialized technology or intellectual property that is subject to rapid change, and to the extent that this technology and intellectual property is rendered obsolete and of no further use to us or our clients, our ability to continue offering these services, and grow our revenues, could be adversely affected. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop new, innovative or improved technology or intellectual property or that our technology and intellectual property will effectively compete with the intellectual property developed by our competitors. If we are unable to develop new technology and intellectual property or if our competitors develop better technology or intellectual property, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. If the integrity of our information systems is compromised or our information systems are inadequate to keep up with the needs of our business, our reputation, business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on information systems to manage and run our business. Additionally, certain services we provide require us to store, transmit or process sensitive or confidential client information, including personal consumer information and health or other personally identifiable information. If any person, including any of our employees or third-party vendors with whom we contract for data hosting services, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches the information security controls we have implemented to protect our clients’ data, or those security controls prove to be inadequate, we could incur legal liability and may also be subject to regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in multiple jurisdictions. Our potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data could be significant and depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit of liability or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages. Any unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems, including an intentional attack by a person or persons who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the scale and complexity of our business and new service offerings may require additional information systems that we may not be able to implement in a timely or cost effective manner. This may impair our ability to achieve our operating objectives and retain our competitive position, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be exposed to potential risks if we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal controls. If we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or fail to implement necessary new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external purposes, we may fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, and may be unable to adequately or accurately report on our business and our results of operations. Even with adequate internal controls, we may not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. Also, internal controls that are currently adequate may in the future become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. This could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Acquired businesses may not achieve expected results which could adversely affect our financial performance. We have grown our business, in part, through the acquisition of complementary businesses. The substantial majority of the purchase price we pay for acquired businesses is related to goodwill and intangible assets. We may not be able to realize the value of those assets or otherwise realize anticipated synergies unless we are able 13 Table of Contents to effectively integrate the businesses we acquire. We face multiple challenges in integrating acquired businesses and their personnel, including differences in corporate cultures and management styles, retention of personnel, conflict issues with clients, and the need to divert managerial resources that would otherwise be dedicated to our current businesses. Additionally, certain senior-level consultants, as sellers of the acquired businesses, are bound by non-competition covenants that expire after a specific amount of time from the date of acquisition. When these covenants expire, our ability to retain these senior-level consultants could significantly impact the acquired businesses. Any failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and retain personnel could cause the acquired businesses to fail to achieve their expected results, which would in turn, adversely affect our financial performance and may require a possible impairment of the acquired assets. Additionally, the financing of acquisitions through cash, borrowings or common stock could also impair our liquidity or cause significant stock dilution. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets, and an impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because we have acquired a significant number of businesses, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to perform an impairment test at the reporting unit level on our goodwill and, on a quarterly basis; we are required to assess both goodwill and long-lived intangible assets. We consider our operating segments to be our reporting units. We may need to perform an impairment test more frequently if events occur or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, attrition of key personnel, a prolonged decline in our stock price and market capitalization, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of one of our businesses, and other factors. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded an impairment charge of $7.3 million related to certain customer lists and relationships and non-compete agreements in two markets within our International Consulting segment. If the fair market value of one of our reporting units or other long term assets is less than the carrying amount of the related assets, we could be required to record an impairment charge in the future. The valuation of the reporting units requires judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and other factors. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of our reporting units, including such factors as market performance, changes in our client base and projected growth rates. Because these factors are ever changing, due to market and general business conditions, we cannot predict whether, and to what extent, our goodwill and long-lived intangible assets may be impaired in future periods. At December 31, 2011, we had goodwill of $570.3 million and net intangible assets of $16.8 million. The amount of any future impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. See Note 5 — Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net to the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We are subject to unpredictable risks of litigation. Although we seek to avoid litigation whenever possible, from time to time we are party to various lawsuits and claims. Disputes may arise, for example, from client engagements, employment issues, regulatory actions, business acquisitions, real estate and other commercial transactions. There can be no assurances that any lawsuits or claims will be immaterial in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 14 Table of Contents 