Risk Factors” and should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements were based on information, plans and estimates at the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect changes in underlying assumptions or factors, new information, future events or other changes. 3 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are engaged in the purchase, sale and distribution of principally aluminum semi-finished products to a diverse customer base located throughout the United States and Canada, Europe, Australia and New Zealand. We sell our products through our own marketing and sales personnel and our independent sales agents who are located in North America and in Europe and who receive commissions on sales. We purchase our products from suppliers located throughout the world. One supplier, Hulett Aluminium Ltd., furnished approximately 54% of our products in 2005. We do not typically purchase inventory for stock. Instead, we place orders with our suppliers based upon orders that we have received from our customers. Growth Strategy Our strategy for growth consists of the following key elements: Provide Customers with a High Level of Service and Cost Effective, Quality Products. We work closely with our customers to understand their specific requirements. This enables us to provide each customer with cost-effective, quality materials matching the customer’s particular needs. We also provide various ancillary services to our customers, such as • arranging for products to be stored in warehouse facilities for release to them on a just-in-time delivery basis, • providing them with timely information about market trends and product development, and • upon their request, arranging for subsequent metal processing or finishing services. Expand Volumes and Product Breadth with Existing Suppliers and Customers. We continually seek to build on our market knowledge. We try to maintain a current understanding of our suppliers’ production capabilities and of our customers’ needs and markets. This enables us to recognize opportunities to introduce new product lines to our customers and to increase volume from our suppliers. Strengthen and Expand Our Supplier Relationships. We endeavor to continue building our supply sources, both by expanding our relationships with existing suppliers and by adding new suppliers. In cultivating supplier relationships, we emphasize our combination of market knowledge and customer base, which we believe makes us an effective marketing channel for our suppliers. Conversely, we believe that our supplier relationships position us to offer our customers greater quantities and a wider range of products. Provide Increasingly Efficient and Cost-Competitive Handling and Delivery Services. We utilize our own warehouse and distribution facility in Baltimore that serves the dual purpose of: (1) providing depot/warehousing capacity for just-in-time delivery and (2) providing handling capability and inventory control at the Baltimore port of entry, our most active import location. This arrangement reduces freight and handling expenses while increasing efficiency. It also 4 enables us to monitor deliveries and serve customers more effectively. At the end of 2004, we purchased a distribution and warehouse facility at 6900 Quad Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland. This building was upgraded and put into service in the fourth quarter of 2005. Provide Additional Products & Value Added Services. In the fall of 2004, we purchased a used aluminum extrusion press. We have installed and are completing the modernization of this press in our warehouse/distribution facility in Baltimore, Maryland. We expect to begin the regular manufacturing of aluminum extrusions in the new facility during the second quarter of 2006 and believe that some of our current customers are potential customers for our extrusions production. We may also add capability to provide our customers with additional value-added services (such as processing, manufacturing, finishing, and or distribution services) through establishing joint venture arrangements with existing service providers or by selectively making acquisitions. The Industry The industry in which we operate is the sale and distribution of semi-finished aluminum products. These products are manufactured worldwide by rolling and extrusion facilities, many of which are owned by large integrated companies and others by independent producers. The products we purchase are in turn sold to varied metal working industries including automotive, housing, packaging, as well as distributors. Although demand for aluminum products in the United States has been cyclical, over the longer-term demand has continued to increase. We believe that this growth reflects (1) general population and economic growth and (2) the advantages of aluminum products, including light weight, high degree of formability, resistance to corrosion and recyclability. According to CRU Monitor, an industry publication, shipments in North America for mill aluminum products during 2005 increased approximately 8% from shipments in 2004. Our Products During the last three fiscal years, we have derived substantially all of our revenues from the sale of semi-finished aluminum products. Semi-finished aluminum products are produced by processing primary aluminum and/or aluminum scrap. A product is considered “semi-finished” if it has not yet been converted into a final end-product. Semi-finished aluminum products include aluminum sheet, plate and foil, rod, bar and wire, extruded and cast products. We offer most of these forms of semi-finished aluminum products to our customers. Demand for our products is not seasonal. Sales, Marketing and Services We endeavor to build our distribution within the aluminum industry by providing customers with quality products, access to alternative sources of supply, and customer service. We offer customers a range of services, including: • sourcing aluminum products from the appropriate supplier in order to meet pricing and delivery requirements; 5 • handling foreign exchange transactions for sales in local currency; • assuming responsibility for the shipment and timely delivery of the product to the customer; • assisting customers in identifying materials and matching their particular needs; • where necessary, arranging for subsequent metal processing and/or finishing services which may be required by the customer; • arranging for materials that have been ordered by a customer (and are subject to a firm purchase commitment) be stored at an appropriate warehouse for release to the customers on a just-in-time delivery basis; and • providing customers with information concerning market trends and product development. We carefully monitor the timing and processing of orders to meet customers’ needs and commit to deliver orders within a time-period mutually agreed with the customer, generally within a 30-day window. We maintain constant and ongoing communication with our suppliers in order to ensure that these delivery dates are met and that customers are apprised of the delivery status of their orders. We sell our products primarily through our own marketing and sales personnel. In addition, we sell our products through independent sales agents located in North America and Europe who receive a commission on sales. Our inventory generally represents material that has been ordered by customers and is in transit or is being held pending delivery to such customers. Backlog As of December 31, 2005, the Company had a backlog of firm orders aggregating approximately $88 million (as compared to $80 million as of December 31, 2004), which represents orders received from customers and placed into production with the Company’s suppliers. The Company expects to fill and invoice substantially all of the orders backlogged as of December 31, 2005 by June 30, 2006. Suppliers We enjoy exclusive representation arrangements with several foreign mills. One supplier, Hulett Aluminium Ltd, furnished approximately 54% of our products in 2005. See Item 7 beginning on page 16 for information about our relationship with Hulett. We strive to maintain long-term relationships with our suppliers and to be a significant distributor for them. As a result, we are often able to obtain competitive pricing and to influence quality standards and delivery practices. We continuously work with our existing suppliers and explore other sources to strengthen our position in the market. To this end, our services include: • serving as an integrated marketing, distribution, and service channel for export volume; • purchasing manufacturing capacity from suppliers in bulk; 6 • assuming responsibility for transporting the products that it purchases; • eliminating foreign currency risks for suppliers; and • ensuring prompt payment to suppliers for materials purchased. Customers We serve more than 200 customers in diverse industries, such as transportation, automobile, housing, appliances and packaging. In 2005, our top ten customers represented approximately 44% of our total revenues, with one customer, Ryerson Tull, accounting for 14% of total revenues. These customers included seven full-service distribution centers (i.e., distributors that have the capacity to provide additional processing services), as well as producers of various consumer and industrial products. Our customers are located throughout the United States and Canada and, to a lesser extent, Australia, New Zealand and Europe. Our U.S. customer base is not regional. The following table summarizes our revenues for the past three years by geographic region. Net Revenues (In thousands) 2005 2004 2003 United States 299,875 175,836 148,108 Pacific Rim, Canada & Europe 58,601 36,714 36,308 Total 358,476 212,550 184,416 We insure our accounts receivable against credit risk by purchasing credit insurance. This insurance is generally subject to a 10% co-insurance provision with respect to each claim, and there are limits on the amount of credit that our insurance carrier will underwrite with respect to each customer. We may decide in particular instances to exceed the limits granted by the credit insurance provider. Transportation We arrange for transportation and delivery of the products purchased by each customer. When we purchase products from an overseas supplier, we accept delivery either at the port in the supplier’s home country or at the port of destination. If we take delivery at a foreign port, we will generally arrange for transportation to the port of destination on regularly scheduled port-to-port, sea-going transportation. Upon delivery of the products at the destination port, we use trucking and rail services to deliver the products to our customers. Competition Our principal competitors are North American aluminum producers, including Alcoa Inc., who dominates the aluminum industry in North America. These companies are significantly larger, have significantly greater financial resources, and are active in significantly more areas of the aluminum products business than are we, including mining, refining, smelting 7 and recycling. These companies also have access to foreign material imported from their own subsidiaries, which compete with us. We also compete with other importers and agents that act for or purchase from foreign aluminum producers. Our principal means of competition is customer service, and the ability to offer competitive terms and product quality, including providing value-added services to our customers and providing a range of product offerings. We believe that agents of foreign mills are generally less capable of providing the same value-added services to North American customers because these agents are generally captive to a single foreign source and often lack the flexibility and range of product offerings that we offer our customers. We also believe that by offering our customers a full range of products from independent sources we enable our customers to avoid dependency in an increasingly concentrated domestic supply chain. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 50 employees, all of whom were full-time employees. We also had independent sales representatives located in the United States and in Europe. None of our employees are represented under a collective bargaining agreement. History The Company was incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1990 under the name Integrated Technology USA, Inc. Until September 17, 1999, the Company was in the business of designing, developing and marketing products for emerging computer related markets. On September 17, 1999, the Company merged with Empire Resources, Inc. (“Empire”), a distributor of value added, semi-finished aluminum products. Since the merger, the Company has continued the aluminum business of Empire under the name of Empire Resources, Inc. In conjunction with the merger, Empire Resources Pacific Ltd. (“Empire-Pacific”), then an affiliate of Empire operating in Australia, became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Empire-Pacific acts as our sales agent in Australia and New Zealand. Available Information We maintain a website at www.empireresources.com. We make copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) available to investors on or through our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed them with or furnished them to the SEC. Our code of business conduct and ethics is available on our website. The contents of our website do not constitute a portion of this report. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, located at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at which reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC are available. This website may be accessed at http://www.sec.gov. 8 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are Highly Dependent on a Few Suppliers. We purchased approximately 54% of our products from one supplier in 2005 and approximately 80% from our three largest suppliers. Accordingly, the termination or limitation by one or more of our largest suppliers of their relationship with us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, our loss of any one of our other suppliers (or material default by any of them in its obligations to us) due to bankruptcy, financial difficulties, expropriation, social unrest, destruction, sabotage, strikes, acquisition by a person or entity unwilling to provide products to us, or for any other reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Consolidation of Suppliers May Materially Affect Our Operations. During the last several years, consolidations have been taking place among aluminum suppliers. Although we have in the past successfully replaced suppliers lost as a result of industry consolidations, there can be no assurance that we would be able to replace the volume of production or the type of products supplied by any of our current vendors if they were acquired or their operations terminated or were interrupted. We Are Highly Dependent on a Few Significant Customers. Our sales are highly concentrated among a few customers. In 2005, 44% of our revenues were derived from sales to 10 customers. One major customer accounted for approximately 14% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005. Over the last several years, there have been consolidations in the industry that may increase our sales concentration and the related risks. Any material reduction in sales to any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our sales contracts tend to be short term in nature. We typically sell our products on monthly or quarterly customer commitments. Rising Interest Rates May Increase Our Borrowing Costs. Our borrowings are primarily short-term Libor or money market based loans. If interest rates rise, our cost of borrowing will increase and lower our profitability. Higher interest rates may also adversely affect some of the markets for our products, such as transportation, housing and commercial construction. We Are Dependent on Our Executive Officers. We are highly dependent on our executive officers, the loss of any of one of which could have a significant adverse impact on our business. We maintain key man life insurance on certain of our executives. Our Supply Sources Are Subject to Substantial Risks. We generally purchase aluminum products from foreign suppliers. Thus, our operations could be materially and adversely affected by changes in economic, political and social conditions in the countries where we currently purchase or may in the future purchase such 9 products. Among other things, changes in laws, regulations, or the interpretation thereof, or restrictions on currency conversions and exports, could negatively affect our business. Although the trend in the markets in which we operate for our sourcing has been towards open markets and trade policies and the fostering of private economic activity, no assurance can be given that the governments will continue to pursue these policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in the leadership, or as a result of social or political upheaval or unforeseen circumstances affecting economic, political or social life. Changing Aluminum Prices Could Impact Our Profit Margins. We rely on long-term relationships with our suppliers but generally have no long-term, fixed-price purchase contracts. Instead we purchase at prevailing market prices at the time orders are placed, typically with discounts for quantity purchases. The aluminum industry is highly cyclical, and the prices that we pay for aluminum and the prices we charge will be influenced by a variety of factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions (both domestic and international), competition, production levels, import duties and other trade restrictions, and currency fluctuations. Risk of Counterparty Defaults In order to minimize risk associated with fluctuations in foreign currency, and commodity prices, we use financial instruments to hedge metal pricing and foreign currency, as we deem appropriate for a portion of our purchase and sales contracts. The risk of a counterparty default exists in fulfilling the hedge contract. Should there be a counterparty default, we could be exposed to losses on the original hedged contract or be unable to recover anticipated gains from the transactions. If Suppliers Fail to Provide Products of Sufficient Quality Customer Relationships and Prices Could be Negatively Affected. Our relationships with our customers depend, in part, on our ability to deliver products of the quality specified by those customers. We obtain certifications from our suppliers as to the quality of the products being supplied. However, if the product is not of the quality certified or if a supplier fails to deliver products we have ordered, we may be forced to buy products of the specified quality from another source to fulfill the customer’s order. While we would then be left with a claim against the supplier for any loss sustained by us, we may not be able to bring these claims successfully, particularly in foreign jurisdictions. We Are Exposed to Credit Risk from Our Customers. We do not require collateral for customer receivables. We have significant balances owing from customers that operate in cyclical industries and under leveraged conditions, which may impair our collection of these receivables. We carry credit insurance with a 10% co-pay provision covering the majority of our customers, and we have set specific limits on each customer’s receivables. However, we sometimes elect to exceed these specific credit limits. Our failure to collect a significant portion of the amount due on our receivables directly from customers or through insurance claims (or other material default by customers) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In selected instances the co-pay may be increased. 10 Increased Tariffs Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition. During 2005, approximately 69% of our sales were of aluminum products from countries that were considered developing countries whose exports were eligible for preferential tariff treatment upon import into the United States under the generalized system of preferences (GSP). There can be no assurance that any of our suppliers will continue to be eligible for such preferential tariff treatment or that the generalized system of preference will be renewed after it expires on December 31, 2006. If the preferential tariff treatment of any of our suppliers that are currently eligible for such treatment becomes unavailable, then imports from such supplier may be subjected to a tariff, instead of the duty-free treatment those imports now enjoy. To the extent these increased costs could not be passed on to our customers, our profit margins could be negatively affected. This could result in higher costs to us and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Antidumping and Other Duties Could be Imposed on Us, Our Suppliers and Our Products. The imposition of an antidumping or other increased duty on any products that we import could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. For example, under United States’ law, an antidumping duty may be imposed on any imports if two conditions are met. First, the Department of Commerce must decide that the imports are being sold in the United States at less than fair value. Second, the International Trade Commission (the “ITC”) must determine that the United States’ industry is materially injured or threatened with material injury by reason of the imports. The ITC’s determination of injury involves a two-prong inquiry: first, whether the industry is materially injured, and second, whether the dumping, not other factors, caused the injury. The ITC is required to analyze the volume of imports, the effect of imports on United States prices for like merchandise, and the effects the imports have on United States producers of like products, taking into account many factors, including lost sales, market share, profits, productivity, return on investment, and utilization of production capacity. If We Fail to Deliver Products on a Timely Basis, We May Suffer Losses. Interruption of shipping schedules upon which we rely for foreign purchases could result in untimely deliveries to our customers or force us to purchase the products in the United States at a higher cost in order to meet delivery schedules. Consequently, our profit margins could be reduced or we could suffer losses. We guarantee our customers that we will deliver products within the period specified in their purchase orders. Any interruption of the means of transportation used by us to transport products could cause delays in delivery of products, could force us to buy the products from domestic suppliers at a higher cost in order to fulfill our commitments, and also could result in the loss of customers. We Compete with Companies with Captive Sources of Supply. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us, and many have captive sources of supply and significantly greater access to capital and other resources. Thus, if our sources of supply were interrupted, our competitors could be in a position to capture our customers. 11 We Are Exposed to Increased Energy Costs. To the extent that we utilize both over-the-road and ocean transportation, the imposition of any additional fuel or bunker surcharges may adversely affect our results. Should we be unable to pass along any such changes to our customers, our results would be adversely affected. An Act of War or Terrorism or Natural Catastrophes Could Disrupt Our Supply of Products. We purchase our aluminum products primarily from foreign suppliers. An act of war or terrorism could disrupt international shipping schedules, cause additional delays in importing our Company’s products into the United States or increase the costs required to do so. Any natural disaster that disrupts the normal course of international or domestic shipping could also adversely affect our business. 