ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSForward-Looking StatementsWe caution that the following important factors, among others (including, but not limited to, factors discussed below in "ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS", as well as those factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in our other reports filed from time to time with the SEC), may affect our actual results and may contribute to or cause our actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements. The factors included here are not exhaustive. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor can we assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. We therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.While we believe that the forward-looking statements made in this report are based on reasonable assumptions, the actual outcome of such statements is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the failure of our markets to continue growing and expanding in the manner we anticipated; the failure of our customers to grow and expand as we anticipated; the effects of natural or other events beyond our control, including the effects political unrest, war or terrorist activities may have on us or the economy; the economic environment's effect on us or our customers; the growth of, acceptance of and the demand for our products and technologies in various markets and geographical regions, including cable, satellite, consumer electronics, retail, and digital media and interactive technology; our inability to add profitable complementary products which are accepted by the marketplace; our inability to attract and retain a quality workforce at adequate levels in all regions of the world, and particularly Asia; our inability to continue to maintain our operating costs at acceptable levels through our cost containment efforts; our inability to continue selling our products or licensing our technologies at higher or profitable margins; our inability to obtain orders or maintain our order volume with new and existing customers; our inability to develop new and innovative technologies and products that are accepted by our customers; the possible dilutive effect our stock incentive programs may have on our earnings per share and stock price; our inability to continue to obtain adequate quantities of component parts or secure adequate factory production capacity on a timely basis; and other factors listed from time to time in our press releases and filings with the SEC.Risks Related to Doing Business in the PRCChanges in the policies of the PRC government may have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the profitability of such business.Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy, through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in the PRC may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, labor and social insurance, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may harm our business.There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our business. If the relevant authorities find that we are in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation:•levying fines;9Table of Contents•revoking our business and other licenses;•requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and•requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business.The fluctuation of the Chinese Yuan Renminbi may harm your investment.Under Chinese monetary policy, the Chinese Yuan Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This policy, which was initiated during 2005, has resulted in an approximately 23.2% appreciation of the Chinese Yuan Renminbi against the U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2012. While the international reaction to the Chinese Yuan Renminbi revaluation has been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Chinese Yuan Renminbi against the U.S. dollar.The PRC's legal and judicial system may not adequately protect our business and operations and the rights of foreign investors.The PRC legal and judicial system may negatively impact foreign investors and are still rudimentary, with enforcement of existing laws inconsistent. In addition, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. Availability of adequate workforce levelsPresently, the vast majority of workers at our PRC factories are obtained from third-party employment agencies. As the labor laws, social insurance and wage levels continue to mature and grow and the workers become more sophisticated, our costs to employ these and other workers in the PRC may grow beyond that anticipated by management. In addition, as the PRC market continues to open up and grow, with the advent of more companies opening plants and businesses in the PRC, we could experience an increase in competition for the same workers, resulting in either an inability to attract and retain an adequate number of qualified workers or an increase in our employment costs to obtain and retain these workers.Expansion in the PRCAs our global business grows, we may decide to expand in China to meet demand. This would be dependent on our ability to locate suitable facilities to support this expansion, to obtain the necessary permits and funding, to attract and retain adequate levels of qualified workers, and to enter into a long term land lease that is common in the PRC.Risks Related to the Continued Financial and Economic Crisis and Recession and Severe Tightening in the Global Credit MarketsGeneral economic conditions, both domestic and international, have an impact on our business and financial results. The ongoing global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a severe tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets. This financial crisis may impact our business in a number of ways, including:Potential deferment of purchases and orders by customersUncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Accordingly, future demand for our products may differ materially from our current expectations.Customers' inability to obtain financing to make purchases from us and/or maintain their businessSome of our customers require substantial financing in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products may adversely impact our financial results. In addition, if the financial crisis results in insolvencies for our customers, it may adversely impact our financial results.Potential impact on trade receivablesCredit market conditions may slow our collection efforts as customers experience increased difficulty in obtaining requisite financing, leading to higher than normal accounts receivable balances and longer DSOs. This may result in greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense.10Table of ContentsNegative impact from increased financial pressures on third-party dealers, distributors and retailersWe make sales in certain regions of the world through third-party dealers, distributors and retailers. Although many of these third parties have significant operations and maintain access to available credit, others are smaller and more likely to be impacted by the significant decrease in available credit that has resulted from the current financial crisis. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for these third parties and we are unable to successfully transition our end customers to purchase products from other third parties or from us directly, it may adversely impact our financial results.Negative impact from increased financial pressures on key suppliersOur ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. Certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the financial crisis, it may result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact our financial results. In addition, credit constraints at key suppliers may result in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow.Dependence upon Key SuppliersDuring 2011, Samsung provided $29.1 million, or 10.2%, of our total inventory purchases. During 2010, Samsung and Computime each provided over 10% of our total inventory purchases. Purchases from these suppliers collectively amounted to $67.0 million, or 34.2%, of our total inventory purchases in 2010. Most of the components used in our products are available from multiple sources. However, we have elected to purchase integrated circuits, used principally in our wireless control products, from primarily two sources. To reduce our dependence on our integrated circuits suppliers we continually seek additional sources. We maintain inventories of our integrated circuits, which may be used in part to mitigate, but not eliminate, delays resulting from supply interruptions.We have identified alternative sources of supply for our integrated circuit, component parts, and finished goods needs; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain these inventory purchases on a timely basis. Any extended interruption, shortage or termination in the supply of any of the components used in our products, or a reduction in their quality or reliability, or a significant increase in prices of components, would have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows.Disruption of Our Supply Chain May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOur ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, or other reasons, may impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.Dependence on Foreign ManufacturingEven after our acquisition of the factories in the PRC, third-party manufacturers located in the PRC continue to manufacture a portion of our products. Our arrangements with these foreign manufacturers are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, such as tariffs, environmental and trade restrictions, intellectual property protection and enforcement, export license requirements, work stoppages, political and social instability, economic and labor conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in laws and policies (including fiscal policies), and other factors, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that the loss of any one or more of our manufacturers would not have a long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows, because numerous other manufacturers are available to fulfill our requirements; however, the loss of any of our major manufacturers may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows until alternative manufacturing arrangements are secured.Potential Fluctuations in Quarterly ResultsWe may from time to time increase our operating expenses to fund greater levels of research and development, sales and marketing activities, development of new distribution channels, improvements in our operational and financial systems and development of our customer support capabilities, and to support our efforts to comply with various government regulations. To 11Table of Contentsthe extent such expenses precede or are not subsequently followed by increased revenues, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected.In addition, we may experience significant fluctuations in future quarterly operating results that may be caused by many other factors, including demand for our products, introduction or enhancement of products by us and our competitors, the loss or acquisition of any significant customers, market acceptance of new products, price reductions by us or our competitors, mix of distribution channels through which our products are sold, product or supply constraints, level of product returns, mix of customers and products sold, component pricing, mix of international and domestic revenues, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and general economic conditions. In addition, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. As a result, we believe period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in some future quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens the price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected.Dependence on Consumer PreferenceWe are susceptible to fluctuations in our business based upon consumer demand for our products. In addition, we cannot guarantee that increases in demand for our products associated with increases in the deployment of new technology will continue. We believe that our success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to fluctuations in consumer preferences. However, it is impossible to predict with complete accuracy the occurrence and effect of fluctuations in consumer demand over a product's life cycle. Moreover, we caution that any growth in revenues that we achieve may be transitory and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.Demand for Consumer Service and SupportWe have continually provided domestic and international consumer service and support to our customers to add overall value and to help differentiate us from our competitors. We continually review our service and support group and are marketing our expertise in this area to other potential customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract new customers in the future.In addition, certain of our products have more features and are more complex than others and therefore require more end-user technical support. In some instances, we rely on distributors or dealers to provide the initial level of technical support to the end-users. We provide the second level of technical support for bug fixes and other issues at no additional charge. Therefore, as the mix of our products includes more of these complex product lines, support costs may increase, which may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Dependence upon New Product IntroductionOur ability to remain competitive in the wireless control and AV accessory products market will depend considerably upon our ability to successfully identify new product opportunities, as well as develop and introduce these products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis. There can be no assurance that we will be successful at developing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products, or that these new or enhanced products will achieve consumer acceptance and, if achieved, will sustain that acceptance. In addition, there can be no assurance that products developed by others will not render our products non-competitive or obsolete or that we will be able to obtain or maintain the rights to use proprietary technologies developed by others which are incorporated in our products. Any failure to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.In addition, the introduction of new products may require significant expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing. In order to achieve high volume production of any new product, we may have to make substantial investments in inventory and expand our production capabilities.Dependence on Major CustomersThe economic strength and weakness of our worldwide customers affect our performance. We sell our wireless control products, AV accessory products, and proprietary technologies to subscription broadcasters, original equipment manufacturers, and private label customers. We also supply our products to our wholly owned, non-U.S. subsidiaries and to independent 12Table of Contentsforeign distributors, who in turn distribute our products worldwide, with Europe and Asia currently representing our principal foreign markets.During the year ended December 31, 2012, we had sales to DIRECTV and its sub-contractors, that when combined, totaled 10% or more of our net sales. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we had sales to Sony and its sub-contractors and to DIRECTV and its sub-contractors, that when combined, each totaled 10% or more of our net sales. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we had sales to DIRECTV and its sub-contractors and to Comcast and its sub-contractors, that when combined, each exceeded 10% of our net sales. The loss of any of these customers or of any other key customer, either in the United States or abroad or our inability to maintain order volume with these customers, may have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Change in Warranty Claim CostsWe rely on third-party companies to service a large portion of our customer warranty claims. If the cost to service these warranty claims increases unexpectedly, or these outside services cease to be available, we may be required to increase our estimate of future claim costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Outsourced LaborWe continue to use outside resources to assist us in the development of some of our products and technologies. While we believe that such outside services will continue to be available to us, if they cease to be available, the development of these products and technologies may be substantially delayed, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.CompetitionCompetition within the wireless control industry is based primarily on product availability, price, speed of delivery, ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality, and depth of product lines. Our competition is fragmented across our products, and, accordingly, we do not compete with any one company across all product lines. We compete with a variety of entities, some of which have greater financial resources. Our ability to remain competitive in this industry depends in part on our ability to successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and introduce new products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, as well as our ability to successfully identify and enter into strategic alliances with entities doing business within the industries we serve. There can be no assurance that our product offerings will be, and/or remain, competitive or that strategic alliances, if any, will achieve the type, extent, and amount of success or business that we expect them to achieve. The sales of our products and technology may not occur or grow in the manner we expect, and thus we may not recoup costs incurred in the research and development of these products as quickly as we expect, if at all.Patents, Trademarks, and CopyrightsThe procedures by which we identify, document and file for patent, trademark, and copyright protection are based solely on engineering and management judgment, with no assurance that a specific filing will be issued, or if issued, will deliver any lasting value to us. Because of the rapid innovation of products and technologies that is characteristic of our industry, there can be no assurance that rights granted under any patent will provide competitive advantages to us or will be adequate to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights. Moreover, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold may not offer protection on such products and associated intellectual property to the same extent that the United States legal system may offer.In our opinion, our intellectual property holdings as well as our engineering, production, and marketing skills and the experience of our personnel are of equal importance to our market position. We further believe that our business is not materially dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret.Some of our products include or use technology and/or components of third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of such products, we believe that, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses may be obtained on commercially reasonable terms; however, there can be no guarantee that such licenses may be obtained on such terms or at all. Because of technological changes in the wireless and home control industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible certain components of our products and business methods may unknowingly infringe upon the patents of others.13Table of ContentsPotential for LitigationAs is typical in our industry and for the nature and kind of business in which we are engaged, from time to time various claims, charges and litigation are asserted or commenced by third parties against us or by us against third parties, arising from or related to product liability, infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights, breach of warranty, contractual relations or employee relations. The amounts claimed may be substantial, but they may not bear any reasonable relationship to the merits of the claims or the extent of any real risk of court awards assessed against us or in our favor.Risks of Conducting Business InternationallyRisks of doing business internationally may adversely affect our sales, operations, earnings and cash flows due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to:•changes in a country or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations, forced political actions or elections, coops, and actual or anticipated military conflicts;•so called "Acts of God", such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters, man-made disasters, and the spread of contagious diseases, such as H1N1 Flu, Avian Flu, and SARS, in locations where we own, manage or operate our business;•currency fluctuations affecting gross margins, particularly in the Euro, British Pound, Chinese Yuan Renminbi, Indian Rupee, Singapore dollar, Argentinian Peso, and Brazilian Real;•longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers;•trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products;•local labor conditions, customs, and regulations;•changes in the regulatory or legal environment;•differing technology standards or customer requirements;•import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements related to making foreign direct investments, which may affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions;•difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and•fluctuations in freight costs and disruptions at important geographic points of exit and entry.Our Brand Quality and ReputationOur business depends on the quality and reputation of our brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of these brands may have an adverse impact on our market share, reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. Events that may be beyond our control may affect the reputation of one or more of our properties or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. If the reputation or perceived quality of our brands declines, our market share, reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations may be affected.Failure to Maintain the Integrity of Internal or Customer Data May Result in Faulty Business Decisions, OperationalInefficiencies, Damage of Reputation and/or Subject Us to Costs, Fines, or LawsuitsOur business requires collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including personally identifiable information of our customers in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide services, including in areas such as human resources outsourcing, website hosting, and email marketing. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. If that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we may make faulty decisions. Our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we and our service providers will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment as well as the requirements imposed on us regarding such information, security and privacy is also increasingly demanding, in both the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our systems may be unable to satisfy changing regulatory requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. Our information systems and records, including those we maintain with our service providers, may be subject to security breaches, system failures, viruses, operator error or inadvertent releases of data. A significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data maintained by us or by a service provider may adversely impact our reputation and may result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. A breach in the security of our information systems or those of our service providers may lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits.14Table of ContentsEffectiveness of Our Internal Control Over Financial ReportingPursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to audit our internal control over financial reporting and separately report on whether it believes we maintain, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we cannot be certain that future material changes to our internal control over financial reporting will be effective. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action may adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock.Changes in Generally Accepted Accounting PrinciplesOur financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to revision and interpretation by various governing bodies, including the FASB and the SEC. A change in current accounting standards or their interpretation may have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Unanticipated Changes in Tax and Other Laws and RegulationsOur business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of laws, regulations and policies in jurisdictions around the world. In response to the recent economic crisis and the recent recession, we anticipate that many of the jurisdictions in which we do business will continue to review tax and other revenue raising laws, regulations and policies, and any resulting changes may impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our profits. In particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations or official interpretations in ways that may have a significant impact on us, including modifications that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-U.S. operations, or that may require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. For example, most U.S. company effective tax rates reflect the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the United States is generally taxed at local rates, which are often much lower than U.S. tax rates. If changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations significantly increase the tax rates on non-U.S. income, our effective tax rate may increase and our profits may be reduced. If such increases resulted from our status as a U.S. company, those changes may place us at a disadvantage to our non-U.S. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates.In addition, from time to time, we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges or other matters and assess additional taxes. We assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of the tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits may have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future may be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. Furthermore, our tax provisions may be adversely affected as a result of any new interpretative accounting guidance related to accounting for uncertain tax positions.Inability to Use Deferred Tax AssetsWe have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to use under certain circumstances. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we may be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets resulting in an increase in our effective tax rate.Environmental MattersMany of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in products, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. In addition, many of these laws and regulations make producers of electrical goods responsible for collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of recovered products. As a result, we may face significant costs and liabilities in complying with these laws and any future laws and regulations or enforcement policies that may have a material adverse effect upon our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows.15Table of ContentsLeased PropertyWe lease all of the properties used in our business. We can give no assurance that we will enter into new or renewal leases, or that, if entered into, the new lease terms will be similar to the existing terms or that the terms of any such new or renewal leases will not have a significant and material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Technology Changes in Wireless ControlWe currently derive substantial revenue from the sale of wireless remote controls based on IR and RF and other technologies. Other control technologies exist or may be developed that may compete with this technology. In addition, we develop and maintain our own database of IR and RF codes. There are competing IR and RF libraries offered by companies that we compete within the marketplace. The advantage that we may have compared to our competitors is difficult to measure. In addition, if other wireless control technology gains acceptance and starts to be integrated into home electronics devices currently controlled through our IR remote controllers, demand for our products may decrease, resulting in decreased operating results, financial condition, and cash flows.Failure to Recruit, Hire, and Retain Key PersonnelOur ability to achieve growth in the future will depend, in part, on our success at recruiting, hiring, training, developing and retaining highly skilled engineering, managerial, operational, sales and marketing personnel. If our salary and benefits fail to stay competitive it may negatively impact our ability to hire and retain key personnel and we may experience low morale, inefficiency or internal control failures. The inability to recruit, hire, train, develop and retain qualified personnel, or the loss of any key personnel, may make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions and also limit our ability to grow and expand our business.Change in Competition and PricingEven with having our own factories located in the PRC, we will continue to rely on third-party manufacturers to build a portion of our universal wireless control products. Price is always an issue in winning and retaining business. If customers become increasingly price sensitive, new competition may arise from manufacturers who decide to go into direct competition with us or from current competitors who perform their own manufacturing. If such a trend develops, we may experience downward pressure on our pricing or lose sales, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Transportation Costs; Impact of Oil PricesWe ship products from our foreign manufacturers via ocean and air transport. It is sometimes difficult to forecast swings in demand or delays in production and, as a result, products may be shipped via air which is more costly than ocean shipments. We typically cannot recover the increased cost of air freight from our customers. Additionally, tariffs and other export fees may be incurred to ship products from foreign manufacturers to the customer. The inability to predict swings in demand or delays in production may increase the cost of freight which may have a material adverse effect on our product margins.In addition, we have an exposure to oil prices due to the use of oil-based materials in our products, which are primarily the plastics and other components that we include in our finished products, the cost of delivery and freight, which would be passed on by the carriers that we use in the form of higher rates, political unrest in oil producing countries that may cause a cessation of production and/or delivery of oil resulting in higher costs. We record freight-in as a cost of sales and freight-out in operating expenses. Rising oil prices may have an adverse effect on cost of sales and operating expenses.Proprietary TechnologiesWe produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including hardware, firmware, and software. Firmware and software may contain bugs that may unexpectedly interfere with product operation. There can be no assurance that our testing programs will detect all defects in individual products or defects that may affect numerous shipments. The presence of defects may harm customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or increase returns. An inability to cure or repair such a defect may result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, increased inventory costs, or product re-engineering expenses, any of which may have a material impact on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Strategic Business TransactionsWe may, from time to time, pursue strategic alliances, joint ventures, business acquisitions, products or technologies ("strategic business transactions") that complement or expand our existing operations, including those that may be material in size and 16Table of Contentsscope. Strategic business transactions involve many risks, including the diversion of management's attention away from day-to-day operations. There is also the risk that we will not be able to successfully integrate the strategic business transaction with our operations, personnel, customer base, products or technologies. Such strategic business transactions may also have adverse short-term effects on our operating results, and may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, and the loss of key employees. In addition, these strategic business transactions are subject to specific accounting guidelines that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.Growth ProjectionsManagement has made the projections required for the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America regarding future events and the financial performance of the company, including those involving:•the benefits the company expects as a result of the development and success of products and technologies, including new products and technologies;•the benefits expected by conducting business in Asian and Brazilian markets, without which, we may not be able to recover the costs we incur to enter into such markets;•the recently announced new contracts with new and existing customers and new market penetrations;•the expected continued growth in digital TVs, DVRs, PVRs and overall growth in the company's industry; and•the effects we may experience due to the continued softness in worldwide markets driven by the current economic environment.Actual events or results may be unfavorable to management's projections, which may have a material adverse effect on our projected operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Delaware Law and Our Governing Corporate Documents Contain, and Our Board of Directors May Implement, AntitakeoverProvisions that May Deter Takeover AttemptsUnder the Delaware business combination statute, a stockholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock may not acquire us without Board of Director consent for at least three years after the date the stockholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. Our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require super-majority votes in connection with mergers and similar transactions. In addition, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a stockholder's rights plan.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSWe have no unresolved staff comments on the filing date of this Form 10-K.17Table of Contents