ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS WE HAVE EXPERIENCED SIGNIFICANT LOSSES FROM OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOW PROBLEMS IN THE LAST THREE YEARS. During the last three fiscal years, we reported net losses of $10.7 million, $2.4 million, and $6.0 million, respectively, and we have continued to incur losses in Fiscal Year 2007. Further, we have experienced substantial cash flow problems in the past, and continue to incur such problems due to a lack of adequate financing for our business and continuing net losses. We also owe substantial amounts to our vendors and debt holders, including substantial past-due amounts due to taxing authorities. These circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. There can be no assurance we will ever be able to achieve and sustain positive net income and cash flow positive operations. OUR PROFITABILITY IS DEPENDENT IN LARGE MEASURE ON FOOD AND SUPPLY COSTS WHICH ARE NOT WITHIN OUR CONTROL. Our ability to operate our business on a profitable and cash flow positive basis is dependent in part on our ability to deal with changes in food costs and matters that affect the supply of necessary food products to our restaurants. Various factors, many of which are beyond our control, affect the pricing and availability of certain food products, including climatic changes, disease or illness in beef cattle (such as mad cow disease) that could impact supply in the marketplace, and government regulations. Specifically, we are dependent in the operation of our business on frequent, timely deliveries of beef, poultry, seafood and produce, which subjects our business to the risks of possible shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions which could adversely affect the availability and costs of these items. These factors have in the past and could in the future materially affect our business and results of operations. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY FROM QUARTER TO QUARTER DUE TO VARIOUS FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL, INCLUDING SEASONALITY. Our operating results have in the past and are likely in the future to fluctuate seasonally because of the geographic concentration of our operations in Florida, where 29 of our restaurants are located. Restaurant sales in our Florida restaurants generally increase from November through April, the peaks of the Florida tourism season, and generally decrease from May through October. Further, the results of operations of our Florida restaurants and thereby our overall results of operations have in the past and may continue in the future to be materially adversely affected by declines in tourism in Florida, downturns in the Florida economy or by hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions in Florida. To offset these seasonal trends and to attempt to reduce the decline in sales during the off-season, we generally run special promotions for our customers during off-peak periods and incentive contests for our employees. Also, adverse publicity in Florida relating to Roadhouse Grill restaurants could have a more pronounced effect on our results of operations than might be the case if our restaurants were broadly dispersed geographically. Although we currently have more restaurants outside Florida than inside Florida, our non-Florida restaurants are more broadly disbursed among a wide geographic area, and therefore have not materially affected the historical seasonality of our business. In addition to seasonality, our quarterly and annual operating results and our comparable restaurant sales may fluctuate significantly from period to period as a result of a variety of factors, including: • The efforts we make (including advertising and promotional programs) to increase our sales, and the success or failure of those programs; 15 Table of Contents • The results of our continual efforts to manage our labor costs, food costs, other restaurant costs and corporate expenses; • Our ability to acquire an adequate supply of food products at acceptable prices, and events that affect the availability and pricing of food products (such as instances of mad cow disease); • Our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified management personnel and to obtain sufficient numbers of qualified restaurant employees; • The level of competition from existing or new competitors in the markets in which our restaurants are located; • Trends in consumer preferences, tastes and eating habits and competition for consumer dollars, both from restaurants similar to our restaurants and from restaurants generally; and • U.S. domestic economic conditions, particularly in the markets in which we operate, and the impact of international conflicts on domestic economic conditions. OUR BUSINESS IS IMPACTED BY THE INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE FULL SERVICE CASUAL DINING SECTOR AND IN THE RESTAURANT INDUSTRY GENERALLY. The restaurant industry, particularly the full-service casual dining segment, is highly competitive. We compete with a broad range of restaurants, including national and regional casual dining chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, some of which operate with concepts similar to ours. We believe that the competitive factors that are used by consumers to differentiate among restaurants include price, service, location, concept and food quality, including taste, freshness, and nutritional value. We believe that we compete effectively in our markets. However, many of our competitors possess substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do and have greater brand name recognition than we do. We also compete with other restaurants and restaurant chains for sites for new restaurants and for employees. We believe that the full-service casual dining segment is likely to continue to attract a significant number of new entrants. In addition, the full-service restaurant industry is characterized by the frequent introduction of new food products, which are accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns. In recent years, numerous companies in the full-service casual restaurant industry have introduced products intended to capitalize on growing consumer preference for food products which are, or are perceived to be, healthful, nutritious, low in calories, low in carbohydrates and/or low in fat content. We believe that we will be subject to increasing competition from companies whose products or marketing strategies address these consumer preferences, and we may need to modify or refine elements of our business in order to effectively compete with popular new restaurant formats or concepts that develop from time to time. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing any such modifications. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON SUPPLY AND QUALITY OF FOOD PRODUCTS. Our operations depend upon frequent deliveries of quality food products. We are routinely exposed to the risks that shortages or interruptions in supply can occur and adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of these critical food products. Regional weather conditions may also adversely affect product supply and quality. We have in the past experienced difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies of food products, or at a cost that allowed such products to be sold on a profitable basis. 16 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that future food supply shortages or interruptions, especially with respect to steak products, might not have a material adverse effect on our sales, operations and profitability. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE AFFECTED BY LITIGATION AND PUBLICITY CONCERNING FOOD QUALITY, HEALTH AND OTHER ISSUES WHICH CAN CAUSE GUESTS TO AVOID OUR RESTAURANTS AND WHICH CAN RESULT IN LIABILITIES. Health concerns, including adverse publicity concerning food-related illness, whether or not specifically related to our restaurants, could cause guests to avoid certain restaurant groups including our restaurants, thereby having a negative impact on our sales. We may also be the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food-related illness, injuries suffered on our premises or other food quality, health or operational concerns. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may also be affected by adverse litigation and publicity regardless of the outcome. Any such litigation, adverse publicity or damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, competitive position and results of operations. WE COULD FACE LABOR SHORTAGES, INCREASED LABOR COSTS, AND OTHER ADVERSE EFFECTS OF VARYING LABOR CONDITIONS. The success of our restaurants depends, in large part, on the efforts, abilities, experience and reputations of the general managers and chefs at each of our restaurants. Our inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the opening of new restaurants or result in higher employee turnover in existing restaurants, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or business. Our success also depends, in part, upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and wait staff. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply. A significant delay in finding qualified employees or high turnover among existing employees could cause our business and results of operations to suffer. Also, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract sufficient qualified employees. Further, a number of our employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. The federal minimum wage has remained at $5.15 per hour since September 1, 1997. However, Florida, New York, North Carolina, and Ohio, four of the markets in which we operate, have recently increased their minimum wage to $6.67, $7.15, $6.15, and $6.85, respectively. Additionally, Congress is currently debating an increase in the federal minimum wage. As such, since we generally cannot pass these increased costs to consumers, a minimum wage increase may adversely affect financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND KEY EMPLOYEES. We are and will continue to be dependent on the services of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of our executive officers or our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that adequate replacements could be found if our current executive officers and key employees were unavailable. See Item 11. “Executive Compensation.” OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS AND REPUTATION AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. Our business is subject to federal, state and local regulations with respect to, among other matters, building, fire, health, sanitation and safety. We are also obligated to remit payroll and sales taxes collected, and in that regard, we currently owe significant amounts (including interest and penalties) to 17 Table of Contents various taxing authorities. We are also late in the filing of our federal income tax returns for Fiscal Years 2005 and 2006 and we are not in compliance with certain regulations relating to our 401(k) plan. For a description of these matters, see Notes 3, 12, and 15 of Notes to Financial Statements. We are currently working to bring our tax obligations current and to file all required tax returns. Various federal and state labor laws govern our operations and our relationship with our employees, including minimum wage, overtime, safety and working conditions, fringe benefit and citizenship requirements. In particular, we are subject to the regulations of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) (now known as USCIS). Given the location of many of our restaurants, even if we operate those restaurants in strict compliance with INS requirements, our employees may not all meet federal citizenship or residency requirements, which could lead to disruptions in our work force. Further, material increases in unemployment tax rates, minimum wage requirements, sales taxes or the cost of compliance with any applicable law or regulation could materially and adversely affect our business. Sales of alcoholic beverages account for approximately 9% of our revenues. Since we sell alcoholic beverages, we are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the various government agencies, including states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each Roadhouse Grill restaurant to apply to a state authority and, in certain locations, county and/or municipal authorities for a license or permit to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises and to provide service for extended hours. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. If a liquor license for any restaurant were lost, revenues for that restaurant would be adversely affected. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of our restaurants, including minimum age of patrons consuming and employees serving alcoholic beverages, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control, and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. Our restaurant operations are also subject to “dram-shop” statutes, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Any liability under such statutes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate. The federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. We are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and regulations relating to accommodating the needs of the disabled in connection with the construction of new facilities and with significant renovations of existing facilities, which will over time require an incremental capital investment by us. Finally, in connection with our franchise operations, we are required to comply with Federal Trade Commission and state laws and regulations that govern the offer, sale and termination of franchises and the refusal to renew franchises. We believe that we operate our business within the requirements of applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the operation of retrauants. However, our failure to operate in accordance with any or all of such regulations, or an allegation that we are operating in violation of such regulations, even if it turns out not to be true, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position or results of operations. WE ARE SELF-INSURED IN CERTAIN OF OUR INSURANCE COVERAGES. We maintain insurance to cover the potential liabilities associated with a number of the risks that we may encounter in our business operations. These include property and flood coverage, auto, workers’ 18 Table of Contents compensation, general liability and umbrella, directors and officers liability, employers practice liability and crime insurance. Many of the policies, such as property, flood and directors and officers liability, include deductibles ranging from $100,000 to $125,000 per claim. In relation to workers’ compensation, prior to calendar year 2003, we were effectively self-insured up to varying self-insurance retention limits set on an individual claim basis ranging up to $300,000 per claim and on an aggregate basis. Since calendar year 2003, we have had fixed cost coverage for workers’ compensation. For employer’s practice liability and general liability coverage, we are effectively self-insured up to varying self-insurance retention limits set on an individual claim basis ranging up to $150,000 per claim and on an aggregate basis. We are also essentially self-insured in regard to the medical insurance benefits that we provide to our managers and certain other employees. These employees who elect to receive medical insurance benefits are required to contribute a portion of the cost of providing the insurance benefits. Due to the trends currently being experienced in the insurance industry, we believe that insurance costs will continue to represent a significant expense to us and may increase in the future. We continually evaluate our options relating to controlling these costs, including changes in insurance carriers and brokers, modifications to certain of the provisions of our policies (including deductibles and self-insured retention limits) and changes in the portion of costs incurred in providing coverage for our employees that are paid by the employees who participate in the particular insurance plan. OUR COMMON STOCK IS QUOTED ON THE PINK SHEETS, AND INVESTORS MAY FIND IT DIFFICULT TO SELL OUR COMMON STOCK. Our common stock is currently quoted on the “pink sheets.” The fact that our common stock is not listed on the NASDAQ stock market or on a stock exchange is likely making trading our shares difficult for broker-dealers, shareholders and investors. It may also make it more difficult for us to raise additional equity capital in the future. Because our shares are traded on the pink sheets and trade below $1 per share, we are also subject to SEC rules concerning the trading of so-called “penny stocks.” Under these rules, broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons who are not established customers or accredited investors must make a special suitability determination and must receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. These rules may deter broker-dealers from recommending or trading our stock. APPROXIMATELY 71% OF OUR OUTSTANDING COMMON STOCK IS CONTROLLED BY ONE SHAREHOLDER, WHICH WILL LIMIT OTHER SHAREHOLDERS’ ABILITY TO INFLUENCE CORPORATE MATTERS. Berjaya Cayman, the ultimate parent of which is Berjaya Corporation Berhad, a diversified holding company headquartered in Malaysia, beneficially owns approximately 66.5% of our outstanding common stock. Berjaya Corporation Berhad also controls Prime, through certain intermediate affiliates, which owns approximately 5% of our outstanding common stock. See Item 12. “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.” As a result, Berjaya Cayman is able to control major decisions of corporate policy, elect our entire board of directors and determine the outcome of any major transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders, including potential mergers or acquisitions, and amendments to our articles of incorporation. As a result of Berjaya Cayman’s control of more than a majority of our outstanding shares, the ability of our other shareholders to influence decisions regarding such matters is limited. 19 Table of Contents 