Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, prospects, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth herein, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “seeks,” “projects,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. We intend for our forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we set forth this statement in order to comply with such safe harbor provisions. You should note that our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or when made and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Although we believe that the expectations, plans, intentions, and projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties, and other factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should consider include the following: Macro-economic conditions. Our performance is impacted by general economic conditions overall, and in particular by economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. These economic conditions include: levels of new and used vehicle sales; availability of consumer credit; changes in consumer demand; consumer confidence levels; fuel prices; personal discretionary spending levels; interest rates; and unemployment rates. When the worldwide economy faltered and the worldwide automotive industry experienced significant operational and financial difficulties in 2008 and 2009, we were adversely affected, and we expect a similar relationship between general economic and industry conditions and our performance in the future. Automotive manufacturers exercise significant control over us. Each of our dealerships operates under franchise agreements with automotive manufacturers or related distributors. These agreements govern almost every aspect of the operation of our dealerships, and give manufacturers the discretion to terminate or not renew our franchise agreements for a variety of reasons. Without franchise agreements, we would be unable to sell new vehicles or perform manufacturer authorized warranty service. If a significant number of our franchise agreements are terminated or are not renewed, we would be materially adversely affected. Restructuring, bankruptcy or other adverse condition affecting a significant automotive manufacturer or supplier. Our success depends on the overall success of the automotive industry generally, and in particular on the success of the brands of vehicles that each of our dealerships sell. In 2010, revenue generated at our BMW/MINI, Toyota/Lexus/Scion, Honda/Acura, Audi/Volkswagen/Bentley, and Mercedes-Benz/Sprinter/smart dealerships represented 21%, 18%, 14%, 13%, and 10%, respectively, of our total revenues. Significant adverse events, such as the recent significant recalls by Toyota and the bankruptcies of General Motors and Chrysler, or future events that interrupt vehicle or parts supply to our dealerships, would likely have a significant and adverse impact on the industry as a whole, including us, particularly if the events relate to any of the manufacturers whose franchises generate a significant percentage of our revenue. Our business is very competitive. We generally compete with: other franchised automotive dealerships in our markets; private market buyers and sellers of used vehicles; Internet-based vehicle brokers; national and local service and repair shops and parts retailers; automotive manufacturers (in certain markets); and, in our smart fortwo distribution business, other vehicle manufacturers and distributors. Purchase decisions by consumers when shopping for a vehicle are extremely price sensitive. The level of competition in the market generally, coupled with increasing price transparency resulting from increased use of the Internet by consumers, can lead to lower selling prices and related profits. If there is a prolonged drop in retail prices, new vehicle sales are allowed to be made over the Internet without the involvement of franchised dealers, or if dealerships are able to effectively use the Internet to sell outside of their markets, our business could be materially adversely affected. Property loss, business interruption or other liabilities. Our business is subject to substantial risk of loss due to: the significant concentration of property values, including vehicle and parts inventories, at our operating locations; claims by employees, customers and third parties for personal injury or property damage; and fines and penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. While we have insurance for many of these risks, we retain risk relating to certain of these perils and certain perils are not covered by our insurance. If we experience significant losses that are not covered by our insurance, whether due to adverse weather conditions or otherwise, or we are required to retain a significant portion of a loss, it could have a significant and adverse effect on us. 16 Table of Contents Leverage. Our significant debt and other commitments expose us to a number of risks, including: Cash requirements for debt and lease obligations. A significant portion of the cash flow we generate must be used to service the interest and principal payments relating to our various financial commitments, including $1.5 billion of floor plan notes payable, $780 million of long-term debt and $4.7 billion of future lease commitments (including extension periods and assuming constant consumer price indices). In April 2011, we expect to be required to redeem $150.6 million outstanding principal of our 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2026 (the “Convertible Notes”). We currently expect to refinance the Convertible Notes using cash flows from operations, existing working capital and available capacity under the revolving portion of the U.S. credit agreement. A sustained or significant decrease in the operating cash flows generated by the Company could lead to an inability to meet our debt service requirements or to a failure to meet specified financial and operating covenants included in certain of our agreements. If this were to occur, it may lead to a default under one or more of our commitments and potentially the acceleration of amounts due, which could have a significant and adverse effect on us. Availability. Because we finance the majority of our operating and strategic initiatives using a variety of commitments, including floor plan notes payable and revolving credit facilities, we are dependent on continued availability of these sources of funds. If these agreements are terminated or we are unable to access them because of a breach of financial or operating covenants or otherwise, we will likely be materially adversely affected. Interest rate variability. The interest rates we are charged on a substantial portion of our debt, including the floor plan notes payable we issue to purchase the majority of our inventory, are variable, increasing or decreasing based on changes in certain published interest rates. Increases to such interest rates would likely result in significantly higher interest expense for us, which would negatively affect our operating results. Because many of our customers finance their vehicle purchases, increased interest rates may also decrease vehicle sales, which would negatively affect our operating results. International operations. We have significant operations outside the U.S. that expose us to changes in foreign exchange rates and to the impact of economic and political conditions in the markets where we operate. As exchange rates fluctuate, our results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars fluctuate. For example, if the U.S. dollar were to strengthen against the U.K. pound, our U.K. results of operations would translate into less U.S. dollar reported results. Any significant or prolonged increase in the value of the U.S. dollar, particularly as compared to the U.K. pound, could result in a significant and adverse effect on our reported results. Joint ventures. We have significant investments in a variety of joint ventures, including retail automotive operations in Germany and a 9.0% limited partnership interest in PTL. We expect to receive annual operating distributions from each such venture, and, in the case of PTL, to realize U.S tax savings as a result of our investment. These benefits may not be realized if the joint ventures do not perform as expected, or if changes in tax, financial or regulatory requirements negatively impact the results of the joint venture operations. Our ability to dispose of these investments may be limited. In addition, because PTL is engaged in different businesses than we are, its performance may vary significantly from ours. Performance of sublessees. In connection with the sale, relocation and closure of certain of our franchises, we have entered into a number of third-party sublease agreements. The rent paid by our sub-tenants on such properties in 2010 totaled approximately $10.8 million. In the aggregate, we remain ultimately liable for approximately $175.1 million of such lease payments including payments relating to all available renewal periods. We rely on our sub-tenants to pay the rent and maintain the properties covered by these leases. In the event a subtenant does not perform under the terms of their lease with us, we could be required to fulfill such obligations, which could have a significant and adverse effect on us. Distribution. Our smart distribution business exposes us to a number of risks, including: Our distribution profitability is directly related to the volume of vehicles and parts we distribute. We distributed 5,045, 13,772 and 27,052 smart fortwo vehicles in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our distribution business has not been profitable in either of the last two years, and is likely to remain unprofitable unless distribution sales levels increase. In February 2011, we began discussions to transition distribution of the smart fortwo to Mercedes-Benz USA. This transaction, estimated to be completed by June 30, 2011, is subject to completion of binding documentation, regulatory approvals, and other conditions outside our control. We cannot predict the impact of the announcement of this potential transaction on our distribution business. In addition, the smart fortwo is produced at a single location. A shut-down of that location for any extended period of time would prevent us from securing vehicles to distribute, which would have a significant and adverse effect on us. 17 Table of Contents Our distribution profitability is directly related to consumer acceptance of the smart fortwo. We may need to offer incentives to consumers and/or dealers in order to enhance the marketability of the fortwo. Any such incentive program could have a significant and adverse effect on us. Responsibilities as a franchisor. If we terminate the franchise agreements of the dealers in the smart retail network, we will be required to purchase the dealers’ unsold inventories and make certain other payments pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreements and state franchise laws. These terminations could occur if we or Daimler terminate our distribution agreement (and may occur if we are successful in transitioning smart USA as discussed above), if a dealer voluntarily terminates its franchise and for other reasons. To the extent we are required to make significant termination payments, we may be significantly and adversely effected. Management Information Systems. Our information systems are fully integrated into our operations, including: electronic communications and data transfer protocols with manufacturers and other vendors; customer relationship management; sales and service scheduling; data storage; and financial and operational reporting. The majority of our systems are licensed from third parties, the most significant of which are provided by one supplier in the U.S. and one supplier in the U.K. To the extent these systems become unavailable to us for any reason, or if our relationship deteriorates with either of our two principal suppliers, we may not be able to negotiate agreements to secure those or similar services on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all, and our business could be significantly disrupted. Key personnel. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, and in particular upon Roger Penske who is our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Certain of our agreements provide the counterparty with certain rights in the event Mr. Penske no longer participates in our business. For example, pursuant to the general distribution agreement between us and Daimler AG that governs our distribution of the smart fortwo, Daimler AG has the right to terminate the agreement if Mr. Penske is not participating in the smart distribution business (for any reason) and a replacement satisfactory to smart GmbH is not appointed within a reasonable period of time. Regulatory issues. We are subject to a wide variety of regulatory activities, including: Governmental regulations, claims and legal proceedings. Governmental regulations affect almost every aspect of our business, including the fair treatment of our employees, wage and hour issues, and our financing activities with customers. In the event of regulation restricting our ability to generate revenue from arranging financing for our customers, we could be adversely affected. We could also be susceptible to claims or related actions if we fail to operate our business in accordance with applicable laws. Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law which may be asserted against us or any of our dealers by individuals, through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings, may expose us to substantial monetary damages which may adversely effect us. Franchise laws in the U.S. In the U.S., state law generally provides protections to franchised automotive dealers from discriminatory practices by manufacturers and from unreasonable termination or non-renewal of their franchise agreements. If these franchise laws are repealed or amended, manufacturers may have greater flexibility to terminate or not renew our franchises. Franchised automotive dealers in the European Union operate without such protections. Environmental regulations. We are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations, including those governing: discharges into the air and water; the operation and removal of storage tanks; and the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. In the normal course of our operations we use, generate and dispose of materials covered by these laws and regulations. We face potentially significant costs relating to claims, penalties and remediation efforts in the event of non-compliance with existing and future laws and regulations. Accounting rules and regulations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board is currently evaluating several significant changes to generally accepted accounting standards in the U.S., including the rules governing the accounting for leases. Any such changes could significantly affect our reported financial position, earnings and cash flows. In addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission is currently considering adopting rules that would require us to prepare our financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, which could also result in significant changes to our reported financial position, earnings and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents Related parties. Our two largest stockholders, Penske Corporation and its affiliates (“Penske Corporation”) and Mitsui & Co and its affiliates (“Mitsui”), together beneficially own 51% of our outstanding common stock. The presence of such significant shareholders results in several risks, including: Our principal stockholders have substantial influence. Penske Corporation and Mitsui have entered into a stockholders agreement pursuant to which they have agreed to vote together as to the election of our directors. As a result, they have the ability to control the composition of our Board of Directors, which may allow them to control our affairs and business. This concentration of ownership, coupled with certain provisions contained in our agreements with manufacturers, our certificate of incorporation, and our bylaws, could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us. Some of our directors and officers may have conflicts of interest with respect to certain related party transactions and other business interests. Roger Penske, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and a director, and Robert H. Kurnick, Jr., our President and a director, hold the same offices at Penske Corporation. Each of these officers is paid much of their compensation by Penske Corporation. The compensation they receive from us is based on their efforts on our behalf, however, they are not required to spend any specific amount of time on our matters. One of our directors, Richard J. Peters also serves as a director of Penske Corporation. Penske Corporation has pledged its shares of common stock to secure a loan facility. Penske Corporation has pledged all of its shares of our common stock as collateral to secure a loan facility. A default by Penske Corporation could result in the foreclosure on those shares by the lenders, after which the lenders could attempt to sell those shares on the open market. Any such change in ownership and/or sale could materially impact the market price of our common stock. See below “Penske Corporation ownership levels.” Penske Corporation ownership levels. Certain of our agreements have clauses that are triggered in the event of a material change in the level of ownership of our common stock by Penske Corporation. Examples include a trademark agreement between us and Penske Corporation that governs our use of the “Penske” name which can be terminated 24 months after the date that Penske Corporation no longer owns at least 20% of our voting stock and the smart general distribution agreement noted above. We may not be able to renegotiate such agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all, in the event of a significant change in Penske Corporation’s ownership. We have a significant number of shares of common stock eligible for future sale. Penske Corporation and Mitsui own 51% of our common stock and each has two demand registration rights that could result in a substantial number of shares being introduced for sale in the market. We also reserved 15,826,124 shares for issuance in connection with the original issuance of $375 million of our Convertible Notes, and we have a significant amount of authorized but unissued shares. The introduction of any of these shares into the market could have a material adverse effect our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 