Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risk and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. See also, “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 12. CENTRUE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION FORM 10-K References to “we,” “us,” and “our” in this section refer to the Company and its subsidiary, unless otherwise specified or unless the context otherwise requires. Risks Related to the Company’s Business We are subject to interest rate risk. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Also, the Company’s interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on the Company’s balance sheet. See Part II sections “Net Interest Income” and “Interest Rate Risk” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for further discussion related to the Company’s management of interest rate risk. We are subject to lending risk. As of December 31, 2007 approximately 76.8% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial, and agricultural, real estate construction, and commercial real estate loans (collectively, “commercial loans”). Commercial loans are generally viewed as having more inherent risk of default than residential mortgage loans or retail loans. Also, the commercial loan balance per borrower is typically larger than that for residential mortgage loans and retail loans, inferring higher potential losses on an individual loan basis. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a number of commercial loans with large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See Part II “Loans” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for further discussion of credit risks related to different loan types. We are subject to economic conditions of our geographic market. The Company’s success depends to a large degree on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets served by the Bank in the States of Illinois and Missouri and, to a lesser extent, contiguous states. 13. CENTRUE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION FORM 10-K The local economic conditions on these areas have a significant impact on the generation of the Bank’s commercial, real estate commercial, and real estate construction loans; the ability of borrowers to repay these loans; and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of the counties in which we operate could also negatively impact the financial results of the Company’s operations and have a negative effect on its profitability. For example, these factors could lead to reduced interest income and an increase in the provision for loan losses. A portion of the loans in the Company’s portfolio is secured by real estate. Most of these loans are secured by properties located in the north central, north west, east central, south central and St. Louis’s suburban east counties of Illinois, as well as, the St. Louis metro area of Missouri. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could adversely affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, supply and demand for properties and governmental rules or policies. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. Managing the Company’s allowance for loan losses is based upon, among other things, (1) historical experience, (2) an evaluation of local and national economic conditions, (3) regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality, (4) current trends regarding the volume and severity of past due and problem loans, (5) the existence and effect of concentrations of credit, and (6) results of regulatory examinations. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the respective loan portfolios. Although the Company believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that such allowance will prove sufficient to cover future losses. Future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions change or adverse developments arise with respect to nonperforming or performing loans or if regulatory supervision changes. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a material decrease in the Company’s net income, and possibly its capital, and could result in the inability to pay dividends, among other adverse consequences. Mergers and Acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. The Company regularly evaluates mergers and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. The Company seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar, have experienced management, and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale, or expanded services. Acquiring or merging with other banks, businesses, and acquiring branches involves potential adverse impact to the Company’s financial results and various other risks commonly associated with mergers and acquisitions, including, among other things: • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company • Payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute the Company’s tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and long term • Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company 14. CENTRUE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION FORM 10-K • Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company • There may be volatility in reported income as goodwill impairment losses could occur irregularly and in varying amounts • Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company • Inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits • Potential disruption to the Company’s business • Potential diversion of the Company’s management’s time and attention • The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company • Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company Details of the Company’s recent acquisition activity are presented in Note 2, “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures,” of the notes to consolidated financial statements within Part II, Item 8. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of its information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated With The Company’s Industry We operate in a highly regulated industry. The banking industry is heavily regulated. The banking business of the Company and the Bank are subject, in certain respects, to regulation by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the IDFPR and the SEC. The Company’s success depends not only on competitive factors but also on state and federal regulations affecting banks and bank holding companies. The regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, not stockholders or other security holders. The ultimate effect of recent and proposed changes to the regulation of the financial institution industry cannot be predicted. Regulations now affecting the Company may be modified at any time, and there is no assurance that such modifications, if any, will not adversely affect the Company’s business. We operate in an industry that is significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. The Company’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U. S. economy and the local economies in which the Company operates, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values, and a decrease in demand for the Company’s products and services among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 15. Centrue Financial Corporation Securities And Exchange Commission Form 10-K Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 