ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Any statements contained in this Form 10-K that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance and are identified by words such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “seek,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “potential,” or “continue” or other comparable terms or the negative of those terms. Forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K include certain statements regarding the effect of certain accounting standards on our financial position and results of operations, the effect of certain legal claims against us, projected changes in our revenues, earnings and expenses, exchange rate sensitivity, interest rate sensitivity, liquidity, product introductions, industry changes and general market conditions. Our actual future results may differ significantly from those stated in any forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements contained herein are based on current expectations, but are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Each of these factors, and others, are discussed from time to time in our filings with the SEC. 10 Our future success is dependent on the continued development of the video-on-demand market and if video-on-demand does not gain broad market acceptance, our business may not continue to grow. An increasing portion of our revenue in the last year has come from sales and services related to our video-on-demand products. However, the video-on-demand market continues to develop as a commercial market and may not gain broad market acceptance. The potential size of the video-on-demand market and the timing of its development are uncertain. The success of this market requires that broadband system operators, particularly the seven largest domestic cable system operators, continue to upgrade their cable networks to support digital two-way transmission service and successfully market video-on-demand and similar services to their cable television subscribers. Some cable system operators are still in the early stages of commercial deployment of video-on-demand service to major residential cable markets and, accordingly, to date our digital video systems have been commercially available only to a limited number of subscribers. Also, the telecommunications companies have also begun to adapt their networks to support digital two-way transmission and begun marketing video-on-demand services. If cable system operators and telecommunications companies fail to make the capital expenditures necessary to upgrade their networks or determine that broad deployment of video-on-demand services is not viable as a business proposition or if our digital video systems cannot support a substantial number of subscribers while maintaining a high level of performance, our revenues will not grow as we have planned. In addition, a number of well-funded companies have been discussing broadband internet VOD services for home television viewing. If these products are developed, they may be more cost effective than our VOD solutions, which could result in cable system operators and telecommunications companies discontinuing purchases of our on-demand products. Current economic and market conditions make forecasting difficult. The global economy and financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken historic actions intended to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit. There may be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in financial markets, credit availability, and adverse economic conditions throughout the world. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours and those of our customers and vendors in a number of ways that could result in unfavorable consequences to us. Current economic and market conditions together with the inherent inconsistent and unpredictable ordering patterns of our customers have limited our ability to forecast the volume and product mix of our sales, making it difficult to provide estimates of revenue and operating results. We continue to have limited visibility into the capital spending plans of our current and prospective customers. Fluctuations in our revenue can lead to even greater fluctuations in our operating results. Our planned expense levels depend in part on our expectations of future revenue. Our planned expenses include significant investments, particularly within the research and development organization, which we believe are necessary to continue to provide innovative optical networking and multiservice access solutions to meet our current and prospective customers’ needs. As a result, it is difficult to forecast revenue and operating results. If our revenue and operating results are below the expectations of our investors and market analysts, it could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Because our customer base is highly concentrated among a limited number of large customers, the loss of or reduced demand of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customer base is highly concentrated among a limited number of large customers, and, therefore, a limited number of customers account for a significant percentage of our revenues in any year. We generally do not have written agreements that require customers to purchase fixed minimum quantities of our products. Our sales to specific customers tend to vary significantly from year to year depending upon these customers’ budgets for capital expenditures and our new product introductions. We believe that a significant amount of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of large customers in the future. The loss of, or reduced demand for products or related services from, any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the industry has experienced consolidation among our customers which may cause delays or reductions in capital expenditure plans and/or increased competitive pricing pressures as the number of available customers decline and their relative purchasing power increases in relation to suppliers. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business. 11 Cancellation or deferral of purchases of our products could cause our operating results to be below the expectations of the public market stock analysts who cover our stock, resulting in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from purchase orders that exceed $1.0 million in value. Therefore, any significant cancellation or deferral of purchases of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in any particular quarter due to the resulting decrease in revenue and gross margin and our relatively fixed costs. In addition, to the extent significant sales occur earlier than expected, operating results for subsequent quarters may be adversely affected because our operating costs and expenses are based, in part, on our expectations of future revenues, and we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any revenue shortfall. Because of these factors, in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Timing of significant customer orders may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate, making period-to-period comparisons of our operating results less meaningful. We have experienced significant variations in the revenue, expenses and operating results from quarter to quarter and these variations are likely to continue. We believe that fluctuations in the number of orders being placed from quarter to quarter are principally attributable to the buying patterns and budgeting cycles of broadband system operators, including telecommunications companies, and broadcast companies, the primary buyers of the digital video-on-demand, advertising and broadcast systems, respectively. We expect that there will continue to be fluctuations in the number and value of orders received. As a result, our results of operations have in the past and likely will, at least in the near future, fluctuate in accordance with this purchasing activity making period-to-period comparisons of our operating results less meaningful. In addition, because these factors are difficult for us to forecast, our business, financial condition and results of operations for one quarter or a series of quarters may be adversely affected and below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, resulting in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Due to the lengthy sales cycle involved in the sale of our products, our quarterly results may vary and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. Digital video-on-demand, advertising, movie and broadcast products are relatively complex and their purchase generally involve a significant commitment of capital, with attendant delays frequently associated with large capital expenditures and implementation procedures within an organization. Moreover, the purchase of these products typically requires coordination and agreement among a potential customer’s corporate headquarters and its regional and local operations. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with the purchase of our digital video-on-demand, advertising, movie and broadcast products is typically lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks, including customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews, over which we have little or no control. Based upon all of the foregoing, we believe that our quarterly revenues and operating results are likely to vary significantly in the future, that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. If there were a decline in demand or average selling prices for our broadband products, including our Video-On-Demand Systems and Advertising Systems, our revenues and operating results would be materially affected. We expect our broadband products to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Accordingly, a decline in demand or average selling prices for our broadband products, whether as a result of new product introductions by others, price competition, technological change, inability to enhance the products in a timely fashion, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth and the related expansion in our operations effectively, our business may be harmed through a diminished ability to monitor and control effectively our operations, and a decrease in the quality of work and innovation of our employees. Our ability to successfully offer new products and services and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires effective planning and management. We are also continuing to transition towards greater reliance on our video-on-demand products and services for an increased portion of our total revenue. In light of the growing complexities in managing our expanding portfolio of products and services, our anticipated future operations will continue to strain our operational and administrative resources. To manage future growth effectively, we must continue to improve our management, our operational controls and internal controls over financial reporting, and to integrate the businesses we have acquired and our new personnel and to manage our expanding international operations. A failure to manage our growth may harm our business through a decreased ability to monitor and control effectively our operations, and a decrease in the quality of work and innovation of our employees upon which our business is dependent. 12 Because our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations, we may not be able to maintain or increase international sales of our products. Our international operations are expected to continue to account for a significant portion of our business in the future. However, in the future we may be unable to maintain or increase international sales of our products and services. International sales are subject to a variety of risks, including: difficulties in establishing and managing international distribution channels; difficulties in selling, servicing and supporting overseas products and in translating products into foreign languages; the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property; multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures; negative tax consequences such as withholding taxes and employer payroll taxes; and economic or political changes in international markets. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. To date, most of our revenues have been denominated in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of our international expenses are incurred in the local currencies of countries in which we operate. Because a portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we often sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase local currency operating costs. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could reduce our overall profits. With the exception of On Demand Group, and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, the United States dollar is the functional currency for our international subsidiaries; therefore, all foreign translation currency gains and losses are included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, certain financial information is required to be translated from foreign currencies to the United States dollar using either the spot rate or the weighted-average exchange rate. If the United States dollar changes relative to applicable local currencies, there is a risk our reported sales, operating expenses, and net income could significantly fluctuate. We are not able to predict the degree of exchange rate fluctuations, nor can we estimate the effect any future fluctuations may have upon our future operations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging contracts or participated in any hedging or derivative activities. Our ability to compete could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from third-party challenges. Our success and ability to compete depends upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology that is incorporated into our broadband and broadcast products. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Although we have issued patents, we cannot assure that any additional patents will be issued or that the issued patents will not be invalidated. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise misappropriate and use our products or technology without authorization, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We may need to resort to litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. We have been and in the future could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business and require us to incur significant legal costs to defend our intellectual property rights. The industry in which we operate is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which on occasion, have resulted in significant and often protracted litigation. We have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting infringements on patent or other intellectual property rights covering our products or processes. We have been involved in significant intellectual property litigation, and we may be a party to litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or as a result of an allegation that we infringe others’ intellectual property. Any parties asserting that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights would force us to defend ourselves and possibly our customers or manufacturers against the alleged infringement, as many of our commercial agreements require us to defend and/or indemnify the other party against intellectual property infringement claims brought by a third party with respect to our products. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. This possibility of multiple damages serves to increase the incentive for plaintiffs to bring such litigation. In addition, these lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention away from our operations. 13 Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to stop selling, incorporating or using the products that use the infringed intellectual property or obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, although this license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, or redesign those products that use the infringed intellectual property. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, our business may be seriously harmed. If content providers, such as movie studios, limit the scope of content licensed for use in the digital video-on-demand market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected because the potential market for our products would be more limited than we currently believe and have communicated to the financial markets. The success of the video-on-demand market is contingent on content providers, such as movie studios, permitting their content to be licensed for use in this market. Content providers may, due to concerns regarding either or both marketing and illegal duplication of the content, limit the extent to which they provide content to the video-on-demand market. A limitation of content for the video-on-demand market would indirectly limit the market for our video-on-demand system which is used in connection with that market. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or enhancements to existing products, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected by a decrease in sales of our products. Because our business plan is based on technological development of new products and enhancements to our existing products, our future success is dependent on our successful introduction of these new products and enhancements. In the future we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these and other new products and enhancements, or find that our new products and enhancements do not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Announcements of currently planned or other new product offerings may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products. Moreover, despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors or failures may be found in our products, and, even if discovered, may not be successfully corrected in a timely manner. These errors or failures could cause delays in product introductions and shipments, or require design modifications that could adversely affect our competitive position. Our inability to develop new products or enhancements on a timely basis or the failure of these new products or enhancements to achieve market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we purchase certain material components used in manufacturing our products from sole suppliers and we use a limited number of third party manufacturers to manufacture our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by a failure of these suppliers or manufacturers. Certain key components of our products are currently purchased from a sole supplier, including computer chassis, switching gear, an interface controller video transmission board, encoder and decoder hardware, and operating system and applications software. We have in the past experienced quality control problems, where products did not meet specifications or were damaged in shipping, and delays in the receipt of these components. These problems were generally of short duration and did not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. However, we may in the future experience similar types of problems which could be more severe or more prolonged. While we believe that there are alternative suppliers available for these components, we believe that the procurement of these components from alternative suppliers could take up to a year. In addition, these alternative components may not be functionally equivalent or may be unavailable on a timely basis or on similar terms. The inability to obtain sufficient key components as required, or to develop alternative sources if and as required in the future, could result in delays or reductions in product shipments which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we rely on a limited number of third parties who manufacture certain components used in our products. While to date there has been suitable third party manufacturing capacity readily available at acceptable quality levels, in the future there may not be manufacturers that are able to meet our future volume or quality requirements at a price that is favorable to us. Any financial, operational, production or quality assurance difficulties experienced by these third party manufacturers that result in a reduction or interruption in supply to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses or distribution rights for third-party technology at acceptable prices, or at all, our products could become obsolete or we may not be able to deliver certain product offerings. We have incorporated third-party licensed technology into our current products and our product lines. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements or to provide specific solutions. Third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our current products or to obtain any new third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements or provide specific solutions could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost. Such inabilities could delay or prevent us from making these products or enhancements or providing specific solutions, which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products. 14 If we are unable to successfully compete in our marketplace, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. We currently compete against both computer companies offering video server platforms and more traditional analog video playback systems. In the digital advertisement insertion market, we compete against suppliers of both analog tape-based and digital systems. Due to the rapidly evolving markets in which we compete, additional competitors with significant market presence and financial resources, including computer hardware and software companies and television equipment manufacturers, may enter those markets, thereby further intensifying competition. Increased competition could result in price reductions and loss of market share which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, selling and marketing, technical and other resources than we do. Moreover, our competitors may also foresee the course of market developments more accurately than we. Although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, realizing and maintaining these advantages will require a continued high level of investment by us in research and product development, marketing and customer service and support. In the future we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments or to make the technological advances necessary to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would be materially adversely affected because of the difference in our operating results from the assumptions on which our business model is based. If we fail to respond to rapidly changing technologies related to digital video, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected because the competitive advantage of our products relative to those of our competitors would decrease. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Future technological advances in the television and video industries may result in the availability of new products or services that could compete with the solutions provided by us or reduce the cost of existing products or services, any of which could enable our existing or potential customers to fulfill their video needs better and more cost efficiently than with our products. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing digital video products, including the development of new applications for our technology, and to develop and introduce new products to meet and adapt to changing customer requirements and emerging technologies. In the future, we may not be successful in enhancing our digital video products or developing, manufacturing and marketing new products which satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. In addition, there may be services, products or technologies developed by others that render our products or technologies uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete, or announcements of currently planned or other new product offerings either by us or our competitors that cause customers to defer or fail to purchase our existing solutions. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the performance of the companies in which we have made and may in the future make equity investments. We have made non-controlling equity investments in complementary companies, including On Demand Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG, Casa Systems, Inc., Minerva Networks, Inc. and InSite One, Inc., and we may in the future make additional investments in these and/or other companies. These investments may require additional capital and may not generate the expected rate of return that we believed possible at the time of making the investment. This may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Also, investments in development-stage companies may generate other than temporary declines in fair value of our investment that would result in impairment charges. Future acquisitions may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in new businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. Acquisitions could create risks for us, including: difficulties in assimilation of acquired personnel, operations, technologies or products which may affect our ability to develop new products and services and compete in our rapidly changing marketplace due to a resulting decrease in the quality of work and innovation of our employees upon which our business is dependent; and 15 adverse effects on our existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, which may be of particular importance to our business because we sell our products to a limited number of large customers, we purchase certain components used in manufacturing our products from sole suppliers and we use a limited number of third party manufacturers to manufacture our product. In addition, if we consummate acquisitions through an exchange of our securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution. Any future acquisitions, even if successfully completed, may not generate any additional revenue or provide any benefit to our business. We may make future acquisitions or enter into joint ventures that are not successful, which could seriously harm our business. Historically, we have acquired technology or businesses to supplement and expand our product offerings. In the future, we could acquire additional products, technologies or businesses, or enter into joint venture arrangements, for the purpose of complementing or expanding our business as occurred with Mobix Interactive Ltd. in fiscal 2009 and On Demand Deutschland GMBH in fiscal 2007. Negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures and our integration of acquired products, technologies or businesses could divert management’s time and resources. Future acquisitions could cause us to issue equity securities that would dilute existing stockholders, incur contingent liabilities, amortize intangible assets, or write off in-process research and development and other acquisition-related expenses that could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We may not be able to properly integrate acquired products, technologies or businesses with our existing products and operations, train, retain and motivate personnel from the acquired businesses, or combine potentially different corporate cultures. Failure to do so could deprive us of the intended benefits of those acquisitions. In addition, we may be required to write-off acquired research and development if further development of purchased technology becomes unfeasible, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable include; declines in our stock price and market capitalization, or future cash flows projections. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on projections of future operating performance. We operate in highly competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. We may be required to record a significant non cash charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined. We may experience risks in our investments due to changes in the market, which could adversely affect the value or liquidity of our investments. We maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of securities which may include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, money market funds and government debt securities. These available-for-sale investments are subject to interest rate risk and may decline in value if market interest rates increase. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity of our investments. In addition, should any investment cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The success of our business model could be influenced by changes in the regulatory environment, such as changes that either would limit capital expenditures by television, cable or telecommunications operators or reverse the trend towards deregulation in the industries in which we compete. The telecommunications and television industries are subject to extensive regulation which may limit the growth of our business, both in the United States and other countries. The growth of our business internationally is dependent in part on deregulation of the telecommunications industry abroad similar to that which has occurred in the United States and the timing and magnitude of which is uncertain. Broadband system operators are subject to extensive government regulation by the Federal Communications Commission and other federal and state regulatory agencies. These regulations could have the effect of limiting capital expenditures by broadband system operators and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The enactment by federal, state or international governments of new laws or regulations, changes in the interpretation of existing regulations or a reversal of the trend toward deregulation in these industries could adversely affect our customers, and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 We may not be able to hire and retain highly skilled employees, particularly which could affect our ability to compete effectively because our business is technology-based. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, customer service, selling and marketing, finance, administrative and manufacturing personnel, as our business is technology-based. Because competition for these personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of the key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly software engineers and sales personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations because our business is technology-based. Any weaknesses identified in our system of internal controls by us and our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have an adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies evaluate and report on their systems of internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on its evaluation of those controls. In future periods, we may identify deficiencies, including as a result of the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel, in our system of internal controls over financial reporting that may require remediation. There can be no assurances that any such future deficiencies identified may not be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that would be required to be reported in future periods. We may have additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. In 2006, we received an audit notification from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requesting materials relating to our 2004 through 2007 federal tax return. As of January 31, 2009, we continue to provide information relating to the audit and have not received or agreed upon any final adjustment from the IRS. In addition, we are subject to sales, use and similar taxes in many countries, jurisdictions and provinces, including those states in the United States where we maintain a physical presence or have a substantial nexus. These taxing regimes are complex. For example, in the United States, each state and local taxing authority has its own interpretation of what constitutes a sufficient physical presence or nexus to require the collection and remittance of these taxes. Similarly, each state and local taxing authority has its own rules regarding the applicability of sales tax by customer or product type. System errors, failures, or interruptions could cause delays in shipments, require design modifications or replacements which may have a negative impact on our business and damage our reputation and customer relationships. System errors or failures may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite our testing and testing by current and potential customers, not all errors or failures may be found in our products or, if discovered, successfully corrected in a timely manner. These errors or failures could cause delays in product introductions and shipments or require design modifications that could adversely affect our competitive position. Further, some errors may not be detected until the systems are deployed. In such a case, we may have to undertake major replacement programs to correct the problem. Our reputation may also suffer if our customers view our products as unreliable, whether based on actual or perceived errors or failures in our products. Further, a defect, error or performance problem with our on-demand systems could cause our customers’ VOD offerings to fail for a period of time or be degraded. Any such failure would cause customer service and public relations problems for our customers. As a result, any failure of our customers’ systems caused by our technology, including the failure of third party technology incorporated therein or therewith, could result in delayed or lost revenue due to adverse customer reaction, negative publicity regarding us and our products and services and claims for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Any claim could be expensive and require us to spend a significant amount of resources. In circumstances where third party technology incorporated with or in our systems includes a defect, error or performance problem or fails for any reason, we may have to replace such third party technology at our expense and be responsible to our customers for their corresponding claims. Such replacements or claims could be expensive and could require us to spend a significant amount of resources. 17 Our stock price may be volatile. Historically, the market for technology stocks has been extremely volatile. Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial price volatility. The occurrence of any one or more of the factors noted above could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Stock Market and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 