ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are Highly Dependent on a Few Suppliers. We purchased approximately 52% of our products from one supplier in 2006 and approximately 69% from our three largest suppliers. Accordingly, the termination or limitation by one or more of our largest suppliers of their relationship with us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, our loss of any one of our other suppliers (or material default by any of them in its obligations to us) due to bankruptcy, financial difficulties, expropriation, social unrest, destruction, sabotage, strikes, acquisition by a person or entity unwilling to provide products to us, or for any other reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Consolidation of Suppliers May Materially Affect Our Operations. During the last several years, consolidations have been taking place among aluminum suppliers. Although we have in the past successfully replaced suppliers lost as a result of industry consolidations, there can be no assurance that we would be able to replace the volume of production or the type of products supplied by any of our current vendors if they were acquired or their operations terminated or were interrupted. We Are Highly Dependent on a Few Significant Customers. Our sales are highly concentrated among a few customers. In 2006, 39% of our revenues were derived from sales to 10 customers. One major customer accounted for approximately 14% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. Over the last several years, there have been consolidations in the industry that may increase our sales concentration and the related risks. Any material reduction in sales to any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our sales contracts tend to be short term in nature. We typically sell our products on monthly or quarterly customer commitments. Rising Interest Rates May Increase Our Borrowing Costs. Our borrowings are primarily short-term LIBOR or money market based loans. If interest rates rise, our cost of borrowing will increase and lower our profitability. Higher interest rates may also adversely affect some of the markets for our products, such as transportation, housing and commercial construction. We Are Dependent on Our Executive Officers and Key Personnel. We are highly dependent on our executive officers and other key employees, the loss of any of one of which could have a significant adverse impact on our business. We maintain key man life insurance on certain of our executives. 8 Our Supply Sources Are Subject to Substantial Risks. We generally purchase aluminum products from foreign suppliers. Thus, our operations could be materially and adversely affected by changes in economic, political and social conditions in the countries where we currently purchase or may in the future purchase such products. Among other things, changes in laws, regulations, or the interpretation thereof, or restrictions on currency conversions and exports, could negatively affect our business. Although the trend in the markets in which we operate for our sourcing has been towards open markets and trade policies and the fostering of private economic activity, no assurance can be given that the governments will continue to pursue these policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in the leadership, or as a result of social or political upheaval or unforeseen circumstances affecting economic, political or social life. Additionally, should the economy in our suppliers' countries strengthen, our suppliers may divert part or a substantial part of their production to their domestic markets thus negatively effecting quantity available for shipment to us. Changing Aluminum Prices Could Impact Our Profit Margins. We rely on long-term relationships with our suppliers but generally have no long-term, fixed-price purchase contracts. Instead we purchase at prevailing market prices at the time orders are placed, typically with discounts for quantity purchases. The aluminum industry is highly cyclical, and the prices that we pay for aluminum and the prices we charge will be influenced by a variety of factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions (both domestic and international), competition, production levels, import duties and other trade restrictions, and currency fluctuations. Price Volatility May Affect Profit Margins. Extreme price volatility may cause customers to withdraw from the market due to uncertainty, which would negatively impact our sales and/or margins. Risk of Counterparty Defaults In order to minimize risk associated with fluctuations in foreign currency, and commodity prices, we use financial instruments to hedge metal pricing and foreign currency, as we deem appropriate for a portion of our purchase and sales contracts. The risk of a counterparty default exists in fulfilling the hedge contract. Should there be a counterparty default, we could be exposed to losses on the original hedged contract or be unable to recover anticipated gains from the transactions. If Suppliers Fail to Provide Products of Sufficient Quality Customer Relationships and Prices Could be Negatively Affected. Our relationships with our customers depend, in part, on our ability to deliver products of the quality specified by those customers. We obtain certifications from our suppliers as to the quality of the products being supplied. However, if the product is not of the quality certified or if a supplier fails to deliver products we have ordered, we may be forced to buy products of the specified quality from another source to fulfill the customer’s order. While we would then be left with a claim against the supplier for any loss sustained by us, we may not be able to bring these claims successfully, particularly in foreign jurisdictions. 9 We Are Exposed to Credit Risk from Our Customers. We do not require collateral for customer receivables. We have significant balances owing from customers that operate in cyclical industries and under leveraged conditions, which may impair our collection of these receivables. We carry credit insurance with a 10% co-pay provision covering the majority of our customers, and we have set specific limits on each customer’s receivables. However, we sometimes elect to exceed these specific credit limits. Our failure to collect a significant portion of the amount due on our receivables directly from customers or through insurance claims (or other material default by customers) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In selected instances the co-pay may be increased. Risk of Default by Our Customers. We rely on our customers to fulfill contractual obligations. The failure of any one or of our customers to do so may expose us to serious losses and may force us to sell material at a loss in the open market and/or absorb losses for metal hedges applied to the defaulting customer’s transaction. Unexpected Equipment Failures or Production Difficulties May Lead To Production Curtailments or Product Failure. We are engaged in the production of prime aluminum extrusions at our plant located in Baltimore, Maryland. As a result of the production taking place at this location we may be exposed to new and potentially serious risks such as equipment failure, product failure (either prior to or following distribution in the market). Defects in the produced products that we manufacture may result in serious and potentially fatal accidents which may in turn result in substantial losses to us. Raw Material Shortages. We may experience a substantial increase in raw material costs, or a sudden lack of supply which could negatively impact our ability to produce extrusions. Our Production Facility Generates Hazardous Materials. Our plant utilizes and generates hazardous materials which may expose us to environmental related risk factors such as spills, clean-ups and poisoning. Additional risk factors may include a substantial increase in raw material costs, or a sudden lack of supply as well as competition with local plants and domestic and overseas suppliers which may enjoy lower cost bases. Increased Tariffs Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition. During 2006, approximately 71% of our purchases of aluminum products were from countries that were considered developing countries whose exports were eligible for preferential tariff treatment upon import into the United States under the generalized system of preferences (GSP). There can be no assurance that any of our suppliers will continue to be eligible for such preferential tariff treatment or that the generalized system of preference will be renewed after it expires December 31, 2008. If the preferential tariff treatment of any of our suppliers that are currently eligible for such treatment becomes unavailable, then imports from such supplier may be subjected to a tariff, instead of the duty-free treatment those imports now enjoy. To the extent these increased costs could not be passed on to our customers, our profit margins could be negatively affected. This could result in higher costs to us and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Antidumping and Other Duties Could be Imposed on Us, Our Suppliers and Our Products. The imposition of an antidumping or other increased duty on any products that we import could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. For example, under United States’ law, an antidumping duty may be imposed on any imports if two conditions are met. First, the Department of Commerce must decide that the imports are being sold in the United States at less than fair value. Second, the International Trade Commission (the “ITC”) must determine that the United States’ industry is materially injured or threatened with material injury by reason of the imports. The ITC’s determination of injury involves a two-prong inquiry: first, whether the industry is materially injured, and second, whether the dumping, not other factors, caused the injury. The ITC is required to analyze the volume of imports, the effect of imports on United States prices for like merchandise, and the effects the imports have on United States producers of like products, taking into account many factors, including lost sales, market share, profits, productivity, return on investment, and utilization of production capacity. If We Fail to Deliver Products on a Timely Basis, We May Suffer Losses. Interruption of shipping schedules upon which we rely for foreign purchases could result in untimely deliveries to our customers or force us to purchase the products in the United States at a higher cost in order to meet delivery schedules. Consequently, our profit margins could be reduced or we could suffer losses. We guarantee our customers that we will deliver products within the period specified in their purchase orders. Any interruption of the means of transportation used by us to transport products could cause delays in delivery of products, could force us to buy the products from domestic suppliers at a higher cost in order to fulfill our commitments, and also could result in the loss of customers. We Compete with Global Companies that Have Captive Sources of Supply. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us, and many have captive sources of supply and significantly greater access to capital and other resources. These companies may be more aggressive in pricing, which would negatively impact our sales and our margins. Additionally, if our sources of supply were interrupted, our competitors could be in a position to capture our customers. We Are Exposed to Increased Energy Costs. To the extent that we utilize both over-the-road and ocean transportation, the imposition of any additional fuel or bunker surcharges may adversely affect our results. Should we be unable to pass along any such changes to our customers, our results would be adversely affected. An Act of War or Terrorism or Natural Catastrophes Could Disrupt Our Supply of Products. We purchase our aluminum products primarily from foreign suppliers. An act of war or terrorism could disrupt international shipping schedules, cause additional delays in importing our Company’s products into the United States or increase the costs required to do so. Any natural disaster that disrupts the normal course of international or domestic shipping could also adversely affect our business. Our Business Requires Continuous Working Capital Funding that we may not be able to Borrow. We may not always be in a position to fund our current and/or future subsidiaries in an adequate fashion. Our banking arrangements are based on working capital ratios, leverage ratios and other 11 covenants. Should business circumstances force us into a default, or should we need to borrow in excess of what we have available under our current line of credit we may not be in a position to fund operations. 