ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. An economic downturn, especially one affecting Gilmer, Union and Fannin counties, could adversely affect our business. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary market area of Gilmer, Union and Fannin counties. If these communities do not grow or if prevailing local or national economic conditions are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. An economic downturn would likely harm the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce the level of our deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. If an economic downturn occurs, borrowers may be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. An economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect our business. If real estate values in our market decline or become stagnant, our business could be adversely affected. Real estate values in our market area have risen substantially over the last several years. There continues to be a significant amount of speculation that the United States, or at least certain parts of the country, is in the midst of a real estate “bubble”, meaning that current real estate prices exceed the true values of the properties. If this is the case, or if the market generally perceives that this is the case, then real estate prices could become stagnant or decline, and there could be a significant reduction in real estate construction and housing starts. In addition, the value and liquidity of the real estate or other collateral securing our loans could be impaired. Given our heavy reliance on real estate lending, this could have a significant adverse affect on our business. 11 Our loan portfolio includes a substantial amount of commercial real estate and construction and development loans, which may have more risks than residential or consumer loans. Our commercial real estate loans and construction and development loans account for a substantial portion of our total loan portfolio. These loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than home equity, residential or consumer loans. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and to borrowers in similar lines of business, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate in some cases is dependent upon the successful operation, development or sale of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flow from the project is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In these cases, we may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. As a result, repayment of these loans may, to a greater extent than other types of loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. Many of our borrowers have more than one loan or credit relationship with us. Many of our borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or commercial business loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to, for example, a one- to- four-family residential mortgage loan. Our decisions regarding credit risk and reserves for loan losses may materially and adversely affect our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans and other extensions of credit may not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: · the duration of the credit; · credit risks of a particular customer; · changes in economic and industry conditions; and · in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. However, there is no precise method of predicting credit losses, since any estimate of loan losses is necessarily subjective and the accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. Therefore, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income, and possibly our capital. We face strong competition for customers, which could prevent us from obtaining customers and may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks and trust services, that we currently do not provide. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our markets, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. Competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. In new markets that we may enter, we will also compete against well-established community banks that have developed relationships within the community. 12 Changes in interest rates may reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends in large part on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from interest-earning assets, such as loans and mortgage-backed securities, and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. While we intend to manage the effects of changes in interest rates by adjusting the terms, maturities, and pricing of our assets and liabilities, our efforts may not be effective and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Our recent operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth and may not even be able to grow our business at all. If we continue to expand, it will be difficult for us to generate similar earnings growth. Consequently, our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of our future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected because a high percentage of our operating costs are fixed expenses. We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key personnel or by an inability to attract and retain employees. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of these officers could impair our ability to continue to implement our business strategy. In particular, Tracy R. Newton, our chief executive officer, has extensive and long-standing ties within our primary market area and substantial experience with our operations, and has contributed significantly to our growth. If we lose the services of Mr. Newton, he would be difficult to replace and our business and development could be materially and adversely affected. Our success also depends, in part, on our continued ability to attract and retain experienced and qualified employees. The competition for such employees is intense, and our inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate employees could adversely affect our business. On December 6, 2005, Darren M. Cantlay, our chief financial officer, resigned from the company and the bank. Currently, Joseph T. Moss Jr., our president and chief operating officer, is serving as the interim principal financial officer of the company and the bank until such time as we identify a successor chief financial officer. The success of our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify and recruit individuals with experience and relationships in the markets in which we intend to expand. We intend to expand our banking network over the next several years in the North Georgia mountains and other surrounding fast-growing communities. We believe that to expand into new markets successfully, we must identify and recruit experienced key management members with local expertise and relationships in these markets. We expect that competition for qualified management in the markets in which we expand will be intense and that there will be a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the community banking industry in these markets. Even if we identify individuals that we believe could assist us in establishing a presence in a new market, we may be unable to recruit these individuals away from more established banks. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit and retain talented personnel to manage new offices effectively and in a timely manner would limit our growth and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to open any additional offices and, if we open these offices, they may not be profitable. 13 We will face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. We may expand into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Any expansion plans we undertake may also divert the attention of our management from the operation of our business, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may also seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. Any of these activities would involve a number of risks such as the time and expense associated with evaluating new lines of business or new markets for expansion, hiring or retaining local management and integrating new acquisitions. Even if we identify new lines of business or new products or services, they may not be profitable. Nor can we say with certainty that we will be able to consummate, or if consummated, successfully integrate, future acquisitions, if any, or that we will not incur disruptions or unexpected expense in integrating such acquisitions. Any given acquisition, if and when consummated, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our growth may require us to raise additional capital that may not be available when it is needed or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To support our continued growth, we may need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to regulatory capital requirements established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our ability to grow, our cost of funds and FDIC insurance, our ability to pay dividends on common stock, and our ability to make acquisitions could be materially and adversely affected. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For example, by December 31, 2007, we will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and issue a report on our internal controls. We expect these new rules and regulations to continue to increase our accounting, legal and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we may be adversely affected. We are evaluating our internal control systems in order to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we cannot remediate in a timely manner, or if we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal control over financial reporting, the trading price of our common stock could decline, our ability to obtain any necessary equity or debt financing could suffer and the trading market for our common stock could be materially impaired. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 