ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a significant degree of risk. You should not invest in our common stock unless you can afford to lose your entire investment. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and other information in this annual report before deciding to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and you could lose your entire investment in our company. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND OUR INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM HAS SUBSTANTIAL DOUBTS ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. We have incurred substantial operating and net losses, as well as negative operating cash flows, since our inception through December 31, 2011. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we reported net losses of $1,611,842 and $1,574,056, respectively. At December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $53.7 million. These recurring operating losses, liabilities exceeding assets and the reliance on cash inflows from our principal stockholder who is also an executive officer and director of our company have led our independent registered public accounting firm to include a statement in its audit report relating to our audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses in future periods until we are successful in significantly increasing our revenues. There are no assurances that we will be able to raise our revenues to a level which supports profitable operations and provides sufficient funds to pay our obligations. If we are unable to meet those obligations, we could be forced to cease operations in which event investors would lose their entire investment in our company. OUR NET SALES ARE NOT SUFFICIENT TO FUND OUR OPERATING EXPENSES. THERE ARE NO ASSURANCES WE WILL BE ABLE TO INCREASE OUR SALES, IN THE NEAR FUTURE, TO A LEVEL WHICH WILL FUND OUR OPERATING EXPENSES. We used cash in operations of approximately $1.3 million and approximately $1.2 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our net sales have never been sufficient to fund our operating expenses. We continue to implement cost reductions in an effort to improve margins, including securing alternative suppliers for raw materials and manufacturing and we anticipate these cost reductions will continue to benefit us in future periods. However, as long as our cash flow from operations remains insufficient to fund our operations, we will continue depleting our cash and other financial resources which are extremely limited. Our failure to achieve profitable operations in future periods will adversely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. In this event, you could lose all of your investment in our company. WE NEED ADDITIONAL FINANCING WHICH WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS. IF WE CANNOT RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL AS NEEDED, OUR ABILITY TO EXECUTE OUR GROWTH STRATEGY AND FUND OUR ONGOING OPERATIONS WILL BE IN JEOPARDY. Historically, our operations have been financed primarily through a credit line from one of our principal stockholders, as well as the issuance of equity and short-term loans, primarily from affiliates. Our future capital requirements, however, depend on a number of factors, including our ability to internally grow our revenues, manage our business and control our expenses. At December 31, 2011, we had a working capital deficit of $536,722 as compared to a working capital deficit of $440,952 at December 31, 2010. We need to raise additional capital to fund our ongoing operations, pay our existing obligations and for future growth of our company. We do not have any commitments for additional capital and we cannot assure you that any additional capital will be available to us in the future upon terms acceptable to us. Given our history of losses, debt levels and general uncertainties of the capital markets, we face a number of challenges in our ability to raise capital. If we do not raise funds as needed, our ability to provide for current working capital needs, pay our obligations as they become due, grow our company, and continue our existing business and operations is in jeopardy. In this event, you could lose all of your investment in our company. 8 WE OWE APPROXIMATELY $7.4 MILLION WHICH IS DUE BY DECEMBER 31, 2013. Since March 2002, as set forth above, our principal stockholder, has been providing funding to us for working capital on an unsecured basis. At December 31, 2011, we owed him approximately $7.4 million. As extended, this loan is due on December 31, 2013 or (i) at such time as we have raised an additional $7 million over the $3.5 million raised in prior offerings, or (ii) at such time as we are operating within sufficient cash flow parameters to sustain operations, or (iii) until a disposition of our company, such as an acquisition or merger, occurs. We do not have sufficient funds to pay this loan when it becomes due and there are no assurances that the due date will be extended. While the loan is unsecured, this obligation makes it more difficult for us to secure the additional financing we need to fund our operations. WE RELY ON SALES TO A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS AND THERE ARE NO ASSURANCES THAT THESE CUSTOMERS WILL CONTINUE TO PURCHASE PRODUCTS FROM US. We are dependent upon sales to a limited number of customers. During 2011 three customers individually accounted for approximately 16%, 15% and 12% respectively (for a total of 43%) of our net sales. During 2010 two customers individually accounted for approximately 40% and approximately 13% (for a total of 53%) of our net sales. We do not have contracts with our customers and the loss of sales from one or more of these customers could materially impact our results of operations in future periods. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OUR ABILITY TO CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS AS IT IS PRESENTLY CONDUCTED IS IN JEOPARDY. Our success is heavily dependent on our proprietary technology and we rely on a combination of contractual rights, patents, trade secrets, trademarks and non-disclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. There can be no assurances that the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of the technology or independent development by others of products with features based upon, or otherwise similar to, our products. In addition, although we believe that any new technology currently in development or patent pending has been independently developed and does not infringe on the proprietary rights of others, there can be no assurance that we are correct or that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. If instituted, there can be no assurances we will have adequate resources to defend a patent infringement or other proprietary rights infringement action. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights or if other products should be developed which are substantially similar to ours, our ability to continue our operations as they are presently conducted could be in jeopardy and we could be forced to cease operations. THE EXERCISE OF OUTSTANDING WARRANTS AND OPTIONS WILL BE DILUTIVE TO OUR EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS. At December 31, 2011, we had 46,830,504 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding and the following securities, which are exercisable into shares of our common stock, were outstanding: · 4,096,476 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of warrants with exercise prices ranging from $0.167 to $1.25 per share; and · 2,993,972 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of options with exercise prices ranging from $0.11 per share to $2.60 per share. The issuance of these shares will be dilutive to our existing stockholders. BECAUSE OUR STOCK CURRENTLY TRADES BELOW $5.00 PER SHARE, AND IS QUOTED ON THE OTC BULLETIN BOARD, OUR STOCK IS CONSIDERED A "PENNY STOCK" WHICH CAN ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS LIQUIDITY. As the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, our common stock is considered a "penny stock," and trading in our common stock is subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under this rule, broker/dealers who recommend low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements. The broker/dealer must make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written consent prior to the transaction. 9 Securities and Exchange Commission regulations also require additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a "penny stock," including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and its associated risks. These requirements severely limit the liquidity of our common stock in the secondary market because few brokers or dealers are likely to undertake these compliance activities. Purchasers of our common stock may find it difficult to resell the shares in the secondary market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable to a smaller reporting company. 