Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated by reference herein, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. Such factors could have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by disruptions in the marketplace caused by economic and political conditions. Global economic and political conditions affect our clients’ businesses and the markets they serve. A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could adversely affect our clients’ financial condition and the levels of business activity engaged in by our clients and the industries we serve. Clients could determine that discretionary projects are no longer viable or that new projects are not advisable. This may reduce demand for our services, depress pricing for our services or render certain services obsolete, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions or the regulatory or legislative landscape could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. Although we have implemented cost management measures, if we are unable to appropriately manage costs or if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. In addition, any significant volatility or sustained decline in the market price of our common stock could impair our ability to use equity-based compensation to attract, retain and motivate key employees. Recent turmoil in the credit markets and the financial services industry may impact our ability to collect receivables on a timely basis and may negatively impact our cash flow. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on us. These events could also adversely impact the availability of financing to our clients and therefore adversely impact our ability to collect amounts due from such clients or cause them to terminate their contracts with us completely. We cannot be assured that we will be able to raise capital or obtain debt financing to consummate future acquisitions or to meet required working capital needs or repay amounts owed under our long term credit arrangements. We maintain a $500 million unsecured credit facility including a term loan agreement and a revolving line of credit agreement to assist in funding short-term and long-term cash requirements that expires in 2012. This agreement contains certain covenants requiring, among other things, certain levels of interest and debt coverage. Poor performance could cause us to be in default of these covenants. While we are in compliance with the terms of the credit agreement as of December 31, 2008, there can be no assurances that we will remain in compliance in the future. In addition, the current credit facility may not be sufficient to meet the future needs of our business if a decline in financial performance occurs, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to raise capital or obtain debt financing to effect future acquisitions or to otherwise meet our working capital needs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to repay or refinance our current credit facility as it comes due or refinance our current credit facility at comparable terms. Furthermore, financial institutions that are lenders under our credit facility may be adversely impacted by the economy and unable to meet their obligations under our credit facility. Further, if our clients’ financial condition were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments to us, we and our financial results would be adversely impacted, which could result in all of the effects described above. 8 Regulatory and legislative changes affecting us, our clients, competitors or staff could have an impact on our business. Many of our clients are in highly regulated industries such as the healthcare, energy, financial institutions and insurance industries. Regulatory and legislative changes in these industries could impact the market for our service offerings, including potentially rendering certain of our service offerings obsolete. In addition, regulatory and legislative changes could impact the competition for consulting services. This change could either increase or decrease our position compared with our competitors. Our inability to retain and, as necessary, strengthen our executive management team would be detrimental to the success of our business. We rely heavily on a small group of senior executives and retaining their services is important to our future success. As we continue to grow the business, the executive management team will face increasing challenges and the possible need to supplement or expand the existing team to enable us to put in place a necessary succession plan. Any failures in this regard could impact, among other factors, our revenues, growth and profitability. Our inability to hire and retain highly skilled consulting professionals could have a material adverse effect on our success. We rely heavily on our consulting staff and management team. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to hire, retain, develop and motivate highly skilled professionals. Competition for these skilled professionals is intense and our inability to hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of consultants and managers could have a serious effect on our ability to meet client needs. The loss of a significant number of our employees could have a serious negative effect. Further, usage restrictions on our equity and any significant volatility or sustained decline in the market price of our common stock could impair our ability to use equity-based compensation to attract, retain and motivate key employees. Compensation and retention related issues are a continuing challenge. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain current pricing and utilization rates. Our revenue, and thereby our profitability, is largely based on the bill rates charged to clients and the number of hours our professionals work on client engagements, which we define as the “utilization” of our professionals. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the pricing for our services or an appropriate utilization rate for our professionals, revenues, project profit margins and our profitability will suffer. Bill rates and utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: • Our ability to predict future demand for services and maintain the appropriate staffing without significant underutilized personnel; • Our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new engagements; • Our clients’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our services; • Our competitors’ pricing of services; • The market demand for our services; • Our ability to manage our human capital resources; • Our ability to manage significantly larger and more diverse workforces as we increase the number of our professionals and execute our growth strategies; and • The economic, political and regulatory environment as noted above. 9 Our client engagements are generally short term in nature, less than one year, and may be terminated. Our inability to attract business from new or existing clients could have a material adverse effect on us. We might not meet our current or future commitments if we do not continually secure new engagements. Many of the client engagement agreements can be terminated by our clients with little or no notice and without penalty. For example, in engagements related to litigation, if the litigation is settled, our engagement for those services usually is no longer necessary and is promptly terminated. Some of our work involves multiple engagements or stages. In those engagements, there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages of an engagement or that a client will cancel or delay additional planned engagements. Our engagements are usually relatively short term in comparison to our office-related expenses and other infrastructure commitments. Additionally, the above mentioned factors limit our ability to predict future revenues and required professional staffing, which can impact our financial results. Our client engagements and revenues are frequently event-driven and therefore difficult to forecast. In the past, we have derived significant revenues from events as inherently unpredictable as the California energy crisis, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the sub prime mortgage crisis and significant natural disasters including major hurricanes. Those events, in addition to being unpredictable, often have impacts that decline over time as clients adjust to and compensate for the challenges they face. These factors limit our ability to predict future revenues and required professional staffing, which can impact our financial results. Unsuccessful client engagements could result in damage to our professional reputation or legal liability which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our professional reputation and that of our consultants is critical to our ability to successfully compete for new client engagements and attract or retain professionals. Any factors that damage our professional reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our engagements are subject to the risk of legal liability. Any public assertion or litigation alleging that our services were deficient or that we breached any of our obligations to a client could expose us to significant legal liabilities, could distract our management and could damage our reputation. We carry professional liability insurance, but our insurance may not cover every type of claim or liability that could potentially arise from our engagements. In addition, the limits of our insurance coverage may not be enough to cover a particular claim or a group of claims, and the costs of defense. Some of the work that we do involves greater risk than ordinary consulting engagements. We do work for clients that for financial, legal or other reasons may present higher than normal risks. While we attempt to identify and mitigate our exposure with respect to higher risk engagements and higher risk clients, these efforts may be ineffective and a professional error or omission in one or more of these higher-risk engagements could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Examples of higher risk engagements include, but are not limited to: • Interim management engagements, usually in hospitals and other healthcare providers; • Corporate restructuring engagements, both inside and outside bankruptcy proceedings; • Engagements where we deliver a fairness opinion; • Engagements where we deliver a compliance effectiveness opinion; • Engagements where we deliver an actuarial opinion with respect to insurance company loss reserves; and • Engagements involving independent consultants’ reports in support of financings. 10 As we become larger, we increasingly encounter professional conflicts of interest. As we become larger, the potential for conflicts of interest also increases. If we are unable to accept new engagements for any reason, including a conflict of interest, our consultants may become underutilized or discontented, which may adversely affect our future revenues and results of operations, as well as our ability to retain these consultants. In addition, although we have systems and procedures to identify potential conflicts prior to accepting each new engagement, those systems are not fool-proof and undetected conflicts may result in damage to our reputation and professional liability which may adversely impact our financial results. Our international operations create special risks. We have physical offices outside the United States in the United Kingdom, Canada and China and conduct business in several other countries. We expect to continue our international expansion, and our international revenues may account for an increasing portion of our revenues in the future. Our international operations carry special financial, business and legal risks, including: • Cultural and language differences; • Employment laws and related factors that could result in lower utilization and cyclical fluctuations of utilization and revenues; • Currency fluctuations that adversely affect our financial position and operating results; • Burdensome regulatory requirements and other barriers to conducting business; • Managing the risks associated with engagements with foreign officials and governmental agencies, including the risks arising from the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • Greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations; • Restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and • Potentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses. If we are not able to quickly adapt to our new markets, our business prospects and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our work with governmental clients has inherent risks related to the governmental contracting process. We work for various United States and foreign entities and agencies. These projects have risks that include, but are not limited to, the following: • Government entities reserve the right to audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs, and conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to government contracts. If the government finds that the costs are not reimbursable, then we will not be allowed to bill for them, or the cost must be refunded to the government if it has already been paid to us. Findings from an audit also may result in our being required to prospectively adjust previously agreed rates for work and affect future margins. • If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of that government. The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities, regardless of the adequacy of such controls. • Government contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than other commercial contracts. Negative publicity related to our government contracts, regardless of whether it is accurate, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. 11 The impact of any of the occurrences or conditions described above could affect not only our relationship with the particular government agency involved, but also other agencies of the same or other governmental entities. Depending on the size of the project or the magnitude of the potential costs, penalties or negative publicity involved, any of these occurrences or conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We have invested in specialized systems, processes and intellectual capital for which we may fail to recover our investment or which may become obsolete. We have developed specialized systems and processes that provide a competitive advantage in serving current clients and obtaining new clients. Additionally, many of our service offerings rely on technology or intellectual capital that is subject to rapid change. Our intellectual capital, in certain service offerings, may be rendered obsolete due to new governmental regulation. Our information technology systems will require improvements as our business grows. The increased scale and complexity of our businesses may require additional management systems that we may not be able to implement in a timely manner. The challenges of achieving and managing sustained growth may cause strain on our management team, management processes and information technology systems. If we are unsuccessful in meeting these challenges, this may impair our financial results, competitive position and ability to retain our professionals. We may be exposed to potential risks if we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal controls. If we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting or fail to implement necessary new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we may fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, or be unable to adequately report on our business and the results of operations. This could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Nevertheless, even with adequate controls, we may not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. Also, controls that are currently adequate may in the future become inadequate because of changes in conditions. The degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. Acquired businesses may not achieve expected results which could adversely affect our financial performance. We have developed our business, in part, through the acquisition of complementary businesses. The substantial majority of the purchase price we pay for acquired businesses is related to intangible assets. We may not be able to realize the value of those assets or otherwise realize anticipated synergies unless we are able to effectively integrate the businesses we acquire. We face multiple challenges in integrating acquired businesses and their personnel, including differences in corporate cultures and management styles, retention of personnel, conflict issues with clients, and the need to divert managerial resources that would otherwise be dedicated to our current businesses. Any failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses could cause the acquired businesses to fail to achieve expected results, which would in turn, adversely affect our financial performance, including possible impairment of the acquired assets. Additionally, the financing of acquisitions through cash, borrowings or common stock could also impair liquidity or cause significant stock dilution. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because we have historically acquired a significant number of companies, goodwill and other intangible assets have represented a material portion of our assets. We are required to perform an annual goodwill impairment test. We also are required to review long-lived assets, including identified intangible assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events occur or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business 12 climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of one of our businesses, and other factors. If the fair market value of one of our businesses is less than its carrying amount, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The valuation of the businesses requires judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and other factors. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of our businesses, including such factors as market performance, changes in our client base and operating cash flows. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. We are subject to unpredictable risks of litigation. Although we seek to avoid litigation whenever possible, from time to time we are party to various lawsuits and claims in the ordinary course of business. Disputes may arise, for example, from client engagements, employment issues, regulatory actions, corporate acquisitions, real estate and other business transactions. The costs and outcome of those lawsuits or claims cannot be predicted with certainty, and may be worse than we can foresee. This could have a material adverse effect on us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 