Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We wish to caution each reader of this Form 10-K to consider the following factors and other factors discussed herein and in other past reports, including but not limited to prior year Form 10-K and Form 10-Q reports filed with the SEC. Our business and results of operations could be materially affected by any of the following risks. The factors discussed herein are not exhaustive. Therefore, the factors contained herein should be read together with other reports that we file with the SEC from time to time, which may supplement, modify, supersede, or update the factors listed in this document. Our business is dependent on customers’ continued spending on video systems and services. A reduction in spending by customers would adversely affect our business. Our performance is dependent on customers’ continued spending for video systems and services. Spending for these systems and services is cyclical and can be curtailed or deferred on short notice. A variety of factors affect the amount of spending, and, therefore, our sales and profits, including: • general economic conditions; • customer specific financial or stock market conditions; • availability and cost of capital; • governmental regulation; • demand for services; • competition from other providers of video systems and services; • acceptance of new video systems and services by our customers; and • real or perceived trends or uncertainties in these factors. Any reduction in spending by our customers would adversely affect our business. We continue to have limited visibility into the capital spending plans of our current and prospective customers. Fluctuations in our revenue can lead to even greater fluctuations in our operating results. Our planned expense levels depend in part on our expectations of future revenue. Our planned expenses include significant investments, particularly within our research and development organization, which we believe are necessary to continue to provide innovative solutions to meet our current and prospective customers’ needs. As a result, it is difficult to forecast revenue and operating results. If our revenue and operating results are below the expectations of our investors and market analysts, it could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. 11 Table of Contents Our future success is dependent on the continued development of the multi-screen video market and if the multi-screen video market does not continue to develop, our business may not continue to grow. A large portion of our anticipated revenue growth is expected to come from sales and services related to our multi-screen video products. However, the multi-screen video market continues to develop as a commercial market, both within and outside North America. The potential size of the multi-screen video market and the timing of its development are uncertain. The success of this market requires that video service providers continue to upgrade their cable networks to support digital two-way transmission service and successfully market multi-screen video and similar services to their cable television subscribers. Some cable system operators, particularly outside of North America, are still in the early stages of commercial deployment of multi-screen video service to major residential cable markets and, accordingly, to date our digital video systems have been commercially available only to a limited number of subscribers. Also, the telecommunications companies have also begun to adapt their networks to support digital two-way transmission and begun marketing multi-screen video services. If cable system operators and telecommunications companies fail to make the capital expenditures necessary to upgrade their networks or determine that broad deployment of multi-screen video services is not viable as a business proposition or if our digital video systems cannot support a substantial number of subscribers while maintaining a high level of performance, our revenues will not grow as we have planned. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or enhancements to existing products on a timely basis, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected by a decrease in sales of our products. Because our business plan is based on technological development of new products and enhancements to our existing products, our future success is dependent on our successful introduction of these new products and enhancements on a timely basis. In the future we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these and other new products and enhancements, or find that our new products and enhancements do not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Announcements of currently planned or other new product offerings may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products. Moreover, despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors or failures may be found in our products, and, even if discovered, may not be successfully corrected in a timely manner. These errors or failures could cause delays in product introductions and shipments, or require design modifications that could adversely affect our competitive position. Currently, we are focused on our next generation software products, including SeaChange Adrenalin™, SeaChange Nucleus™, SeaChange Infusion™ Advanced Advertising Platform and SeaChange AdPulse™. Our inability to complete the development of these new products or enhancements on a timely basis or the failure of these new products or enhancements to achieve market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in fiscal 2015 and in future periods. Our business is impacted by worldwide economic cycles, which are difficult to predict. The global economy and financial markets experienced disruption in recent years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, diminished credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. These economic developments and the rate of recovery and the change in business spending resulting from these developments affect businesses such as ours and those of our customers and vendors in a number of ways that could result in unfavorable consequences to us. A continued slow recovery from these events or further disruption and deterioration in economic conditions may reduce customer purchases of our products and services, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. In addition, these events may, among other things, result in increased price competition for our products and services, increased risk in the collectability of our accounts receivable from our customers, increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. We have taken actions to address the effects of the economic crisis and the slow recovery, including implementing cost control and cost reduction measures. It is possible that we may need to take further actions to control our cost structure and implement further cost reduction measures. We cannot predict whether these measures will be sufficient to offset certain of the negative trends that might affect our business. 12 Table of Contents We have taken and continue to take measures to address the variability in the market for our products and services, which could have long-term negative effects on our business or impact our ability to adequately address a rapid increase in customer demand. We have taken and continue to take measures to address the variability in the market for our products and services, to increase average revenue per unit of our sales and to reduce our operating expenses, rationalize capital expenditure and minimize customer turnover. These measures include shifting more of our operations to lower cost regions by outsourcing and off-shoring, implementing cost reduction programs, reducing the number of our employees, and reducing and rationalizing planned capital expenditures and expense budgets. As previously announced, we sold our broadcast servers and storage and media services businesses in fiscal 2013 as we continue to focus on becoming a company that primarily provides software solutions. We cannot ensure that the measures we have taken will not impair our ability to effectively develop and market products and services, to remain competitive in the industries in which we compete, to operate effectively, to operate profitably during slowdowns or to effectively meet a rapid increase in customer demand. These measures may have long-term negative effects on our business by reducing our pool of technical talent, decreasing or slowing improvements in our products and services, making it more difficult to hire and retain talented individuals and to quickly respond to customers or competitors in an upward cycle. Our business has been subject to uncertainties introduced by the evaluation of strategic options. Evaluations of strategic options, such as the one we completed in fiscal 2012, result in the expenditure of substantial management time and resources, and may result in our customers reducing the level of orders they place with us, the departure from the Company of key employees, a third party expressing interest in acquiring the Company, and other factors that may have a negative effect on our business. Since fiscal 2012, there has been continued consolidation within the industry in which we compete, which may make it more likely that a third party expresses interest in acquiring us. These factors could create uncertainty in our operations and cause our revenues to decline, having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and result in fluctuations of our stock price. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to become a company that primarily provides software solutions. Our efforts to become a company that primarily provides software solutions may result in a reduction in both the range of products and services we offer and in the range of our current and potential future customers. Each of these factors may increase the level of execution risk in our strategy, in that there may be increased variability in our revenues. If we are unsuccessful in this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected, and the market price of our common stock may decrease. Because our customer base is highly concentrated among a limited number of large customers, the loss of or reduced demand by, the return of product by one or more of these customers or the failure of revenue acceptance criteria to have been satisfied in a given fiscal quarter, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customer base is highly concentrated among a limited number of large customers, and, therefore, a limited number of customers account for a significant percentage of our revenues in any fiscal period. We generally do not have written agreements that require customers to purchase fixed minimum quantities of our products. Our sales to specific customers tend to vary significantly from year to year and from quarter to quarter depending upon these customers’ budgets for capital expenditures and our new product introductions. We believe that a significant amount of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of large customers in the future. The loss of, reduced demand for products or related services by, return of a product previously purchased by any of our major customers or the failure of revenue acceptance criteria to have been satisfied in a given fiscal quarter, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the industry has experienced consolidation among our customers which may cause delays or reductions 13 Table of Contents in capital expenditure plans and/or increased competitive pricing pressures as the number of available customers decline and their relative purchasing power increases in relation to suppliers. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business. Cancellation or deferral of purchases of our products or final customer acceptance, or the return of previously purchased products could cause a substantial variation in our operating results, resulting in a decrease in the market price of our common stock and making period-to-period comparisons of our operating results less meaningful. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from purchase orders that exceed one million dollars in value. Therefore, any significant cancellation or deferral of purchases of our products or receiving final customer acceptance could result in a substantial variation in our operating results in any particular quarter due to the resulting decrease in revenue and gross margin. In addition, to the extent significant sales occur earlier than expected, operating results for subsequent quarters may be adversely affected because our operating costs and expenses are based, in part, on our expectations of future revenues, and we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any revenue shortfall. Because of these factors, in some future quarter our operating results may be below guidance that we may issue or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, any of which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, these factors may make period-to-period comparisons of our operating results less meaningful. Due to the lengthy sales cycle involved in the sale of our products, our quarterly results may vary and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. Our next generation software products and services are relatively complex and their purchase generally involves a significant commitment of capital, with attendant delays frequently associated with large capital expenditures and implementation procedures within an organization. Moreover, the purchase of these products typically requires coordination and agreement among a potential customer’s corporate headquarters and its regional and local operations. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with the purchase of our next generation software products and services is typically lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks, including customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews, over which we have little or no control. Based upon all of the foregoing, we believe that our quarterly revenues and operating results are likely to vary significantly in the future, that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. If there were a decline in demand or average selling prices for our products, our revenues and operating results would be materially affected. We expect our next generation software product lines to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Accordingly, a decline in demand or average selling prices for these products and any greater than anticipated declines in sales of our legacy products, whether as a result of new product introductions by others, price competition, technological change, inability to enhance the products in a timely fashion, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must manage product transitions successfully in order to remain competitive. The introduction of a new product or product line is a complex task, involving significant expenditures in research and development, training, promotion and sales channel development, and management of existing product inventories to reduce the cost associated with returns and slow moving inventory. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to execute product transitions in an efficient manner or that product transitions will be executed without harming our operating results. Failure to develop products with required features and performance levels or any delay in bringing a new product to market could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our competitive position. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our growth and the related expansion in our operations effectively, our business may be harmed through a diminished ability to monitor and control effectively our operations, and a decrease in the quality of work and innovation of our employees. Our ability to successfully offer new products and services and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires effective planning and management. We are also continuing to transition towards greater reliance on our software products and services for a significant portion of our total revenue. In light of the growing complexities in managing our expanding portfolio of products and services, our anticipated future operations may continue to strain our operational and administrative resources. To manage future growth effectively, we must continue to improve our operational controls and internal controls over financial reporting, and to integrate the businesses we have acquired and our new personnel and to manage our expanding international operations. A failure to manage our growth may harm our business through a decreased ability to monitor and control effectively our operations, and a decrease in the quality of work and innovation of our employees upon which our business is dependent. Because our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations, we may not be able to maintain or increase international sales of our products and services. Our international operations are expected to continue to account for a significant portion of our business in the future. However, in the future we may be unable to maintain or increase international sales of our products and services. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: • difficulties in establishing and managing international distribution channels; • difficulties in selling, servicing and supporting overseas products and services and in translating products and services into foreign languages; • the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property; • multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures; • negative tax consequences such as withholding taxes and employer payroll taxes; • differences in labor laws and regulations affecting our ability to hire and retain employees; and • economic or political changes in international markets. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and our failure to comply could result in penalties which could harm our reputation, business, and financial condition. We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. The FCPA also requires companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the Company. Under the FCPA, U.S. companies may be held liable for actions taken by their strategic or local partners or representatives. The FCPA and similar laws in other countries can impose civil and criminal penalties for violations. If we do not properly implement practices and controls with respect to compliance with the FCPA and similar laws, or if we fail to enforce those practices and controls properly, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions, including administrative costs related to governmental and internal investigations, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions and restrictions on our business activities, all of which could harm our reputation, business and financial condition. New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the 15 Table of Contents Democratic Republic of Congo (“DRC”) and adjoining countries. As a result, in August 2012 the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use conflict minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. These new requirements required due diligence efforts in fiscal 2014, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in May of fiscal 2015. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for due diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” conflict minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face adverse affects to our reputation if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. To date, most of our revenues have been denominated in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of our international expenses are incurred in the local currencies of countries in which we operate. Because a portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we often sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase local currency operating costs. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, certain financial information is required to be translated from foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar using either the spot rate or the weighted-average exchange rate. If the U.S. dollar changes relative to applicable local currencies, there is a risk our reported sales, operating expenses, and net income could significantly fluctuate. We are not able to predict the degree of exchange rate fluctuations, nor can we estimate the effect any future fluctuations may have upon our future operations. Our ability to compete could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from third-party challenges. Our success and ability to compete depends upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology that is incorporated into our products. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Although we have issued patents, we cannot assure that any additional patents will be issued or that the issued patents will not be invalidated. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise misappropriate and use our products or technology without authorization, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We may need to resort to litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. We have been and in the future could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business and require us to incur significant legal costs to defend our intellectual property rights. The industry in which we operate is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which on occasion, have resulted in significant and often protracted litigation. We have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting infringements 16 Table of Contents on patent or other intellectual property rights covering our products or processes. We may be a party to litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or as a result of an allegation that we infringe others’ intellectual property. Any parties asserting that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights would force us to defend ourselves and possibly our customers or manufacturers against the alleged infringement, as many of our commercial agreements require us to defend and/or indemnify the other party against intellectual property infringement claims brought by a third party with respect to our products. We have received certain claims for indemnification from customers but have not been made party to any litigation involving intellectual property infringement claims as a result. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. This possibility of multiple damages serves to increase the incentive for plaintiffs to bring such litigation. In addition, these lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention away from our operations. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to stop selling, incorporating or using the products that use the infringed intellectual property or obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, although this license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, or redesign those products that use the infringed intellectual property. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, our business may be seriously harmed. If content providers, such as movie studios, limit the scope of content licensed for use in the digital VOD market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected because the potential market for our products would be more limited than we currently believe and have communicated to the financial markets. The success of the VOD market is contingent on content providers, such as movie studios, permitting their content to be licensed for use in this market. Content providers may, due to concerns regarding either or both marketing and illegal duplication of the content, limit the extent to which they provide content to the VOD market. A limitation of content for the VOD market would indirectly limit the market for our VOD system which is used in connection with that market. Because we purchase certain material components used in manufacturing our products from sole suppliers and we use a limited number of third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by a failure of these suppliers or manufacturers. Certain key components of our products are currently purchased from a sole supplier, including computer chassis, switching gear, an interface controller video transmission board, and operating system and applications software. We have in the past experienced quality control problems, where products did not meet specifications or were damaged in shipping, and delays in the receipt of these components. These problems were generally of short duration and did not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. However, we may in the future experience similar types of problems which could be more severe or more prolonged. While we believe that there are alternative suppliers available for these components, we believe that the procurement of these components from alternative suppliers could take up to a year. In addition, these alternative components may not be functionally equivalent or may be unavailable on a timely basis or on similar terms. The inability to obtain sufficient key components as required, or to develop alternative sources if and as required in the future, could result in delays or reductions in product shipments which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we rely on a limited number of third parties who manufacture certain components used in our products. While to date there has been suitable third-party manufacturing capacity readily available at acceptable quality levels, in the future there may not be manufacturers that are able to meet our future volume or quality requirements at a price that is favorable to us. Any financial, operational, production or quality assurance difficulties experienced by these third-party manufacturers that result in a reduction or interruption in supply to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses or distribution rights for third-party technology at acceptable prices, or at all, our products could become obsolete or we may not be able to deliver certain product offerings. We have incorporated third-party licensed technology into our current products and our product lines. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements or to provide specific solutions. Third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our current products or to obtain any new third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements or provide specific solutions could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost. Such inabilities could delay or prevent us from making these products or enhancements or providing specific solutions, which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products. We may also incorporate open source software into our products. Although we monitor our use of open source closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. We could also be subject to similar conditions or restrictions should there be any changes in the licensing terms of the open source software incorporated into our products. In either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely or successful basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully compete in our marketplace, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. We currently compete against large companies offering video software solutions. In the digital advertisement insertion market, we compete against suppliers of both analog tape-based and digital systems. In addition, a number of well-funded companies have been developing and implementing broadband internet VOD services. To the extent the products developed are competitive with and not complementary to our products, they may be more cost effective than our VOD solutions, which could result in cable system operators and telecommunications companies discontinuing their purchases of our on-demand products. Due to the rapidly evolving markets in which we compete, additional competitors with significant market presence and financial resources, including software companies and television equipment manufacturers, may enter those markets, thereby further intensifying competition. Increased competition could result in price reductions, cancellations of purchase orders, losses of business with current customers to competitors, and loss of market share which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, selling and marketing, technical and other resources than we do. Moreover, our competitors may also foresee the course of market developments more accurately than we. Although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, realizing and maintaining these advantages will require a continued high level of investment by us in research and product development, marketing and customer service and support. In the future we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments or to make the technological advances necessary to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would be materially adversely affected because of the difference in our operating results from the assumptions on which our business model is based. If we fail to respond to rapidly changing technologies related to digital video, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected because the competitive advantage of our products and services relative to those of our competitors would decrease. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Future technological advances in the television and video 18 Table of Contents industries may result in the availability of new products or services that could compete with the solutions provided by us or reduce the cost of existing products or services, any of which could enable our existing or potential customers to fulfill their video needs better and more cost efficiently than with our products. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing digital video products, including the development of new applications for our technology, and to develop and introduce new products to meet and adapt to changing customer requirements and emerging technologies. In the future, we may not be successful in enhancing our digital video products or developing, manufacturing and marketing new products which satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. In addition, there may be services, products or technologies developed by others that render our products or technologies uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete, or announcements of currently planned or other new product offerings either by us or our competitors that cause customers to defer or fail to purchase our existing solutions. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the performance of the companies in which we have made and may in the future make equity investments. We have made non-controlling equity investments in complementary companies and we may in the future make additional investments. These investments may require additional capital and may not generate the expected rate of return that we believed possible at the time of making the investment. This may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Also, investments in development-stage companies may generate other than temporary declines in fair value of our investment that would result in impairment charges. We may not fully realize the benefits of our completed acquisitions, and future acquisitions may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in new businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. Acquisitions could create risks for us, including: • difficulties in assimilation of acquired personnel, operations, technologies or products which may affect our ability to develop new products and services and compete in our rapidly changing marketplace due to a resulting decrease in the quality of work and innovation of our employees upon which our business is dependent; • adverse effects on our existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, which may be of particular importance to our business because we sell our products to a limited number of large customers, we purchase certain components used in manufacturing our products from sole suppliers and we use a limited number of third-party manufacturers to manufacture our product; and • our ability to retain and incentivize management and key employees of the acquired business. Future acquisitions or divestitures may adversely affect our financial condition. Historically, we have acquired technology or businesses to supplement and expand our product offerings. In the future, we could acquire additional products, technologies or businesses, or enter into joint venture arrangements, for the purpose of complementing or expanding our business. Negotiation of potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures and our integration or transfer of acquired or divested products, technologies or businesses, could divert management’s time and resources. As part of our strategy for growth, we may continue to explore acquisitions, divestitures, or strategic alliances, which may not be completed or may not be ultimately beneficial to us. Acquisitions or divestitures may pose risks to our operations, including: • problems and increased costs in connection with the integration or divestiture of the personnel, operations, technologies, or products of the acquired or divested businesses; 19 Table of Contents • unanticipated costs; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • inability to make planned divestitures of businesses on favorable terms in a timely manner or at all; • adverse effects on business relationships with suppliers and customers and those of the acquired company; • acquired assets becoming impaired as a result of technical advancements or worse-than-expected performance by the acquired company; • entering markets in which we have no, or limited, prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees. Additionally, in connection with any acquisitions or investments we could: • issue stock that would dilute our existing stockholders’ ownership percentages; • incur debt and assume liabilities; • obtain financing on unfavorable terms; • incur amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets or incur large and immediate write-offs; • incur large expenditures related to office closures of the acquired companies, including costs relating to the termination of employees and facility and leasehold improvement charges resulting from our having to vacate the acquired companies’ premises; and • reduce the cash that would otherwise be available to fund operations or for other purposes. If our indefinite-lived or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”), we review our intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Indefinite-lived assets are required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our indefinite-lived assets or other intangible assets may not be recoverable include declines in our stock price and market capitalization, or decreased future cash flows projections. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on projections of future operating performance. We operate in highly competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. We may be required to record a significant noncash charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our indefinite-lived assets or other intangible assets is determined. We may experience risks in our investments due to changes in the market, which could adversely affect the value or liquidity of our investments. We maintain a portfolio of marketable securities in a variety of instruments which may include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, money market funds and government debt securities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity of our investments. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The success of our business model could be influenced by changes in the regulatory environment, such as changes that either would limit capital expenditures by television, cable or telecommunications operators or reverse the trend towards deregulation in the industries in which we compete. The telecommunications and television industries are subject to extensive regulation which may limit the growth of our business, both in the United States and other countries. The growth of our business internationally is 20 Table of Contents dependent in part on deregulation of the telecommunications industry abroad similar to that which has occurred in the United States and the timing and magnitude of which is uncertain. Video service providers are subject to extensive government regulation by the Federal Communications Commission and other federal, state and international regulatory agencies. These regulations could have the effect of limiting capital expenditures by video service providers and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The enactment by federal, state or international governments of new laws or regulations, changes in the interpretation of existing regulations or a reversal of the trend toward deregulation in these industries could adversely affect our customers, and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to hire and retain highly skilled employees, which could affect our ability to compete effectively because our business is technology-based. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, customer service, selling and marketing, finance, administrative and manufacturing personnel, as our business is technology-based. Because competition for these personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of the key personnel, the integration of new personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly software engineers and sales personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations because our business is technology-based. We face significant risks to our business when we engage in the outsourcing of engineering work, including outsourcing of software work overseas, which, if not properly managed, could result in the loss of valuable intellectual property and increased costs due to inefficient and poor work product, which could harm our business, including our financial results, reputation, and brand. We may, from time-to-time, outsource engineering work related to the design and development of our products, typically to save money and gain access to additional engineering resources. We have worked, and expect to work in the future, with companies located in jurisdictions outside of the United States, including, but not limited to India, Poland and the Philippines. We have limited experience in the outsourcing of engineering and other work to third-parties located internationally that operate under different laws and regulations than those in the United States. If we are unable to properly manage and oversee the outsourcing of this engineering and other work related to our products, we could suffer the loss of valuable intellectual property, or the loss of the ability to claim such intellectual property, including patents and trade names. Additionally, instead of saving money, we could in fact incur significant additional costs as a result of inefficient engineering services and poor work product. As a result, our business would be harmed, including our financial results, reputation, and brand. We may have additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by various tax jurisdictions. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. In addition, we are subject to sales, use and similar taxes in many countries, jurisdictions and provinces, including those states in the United States where we maintain a physical presence or have a substantial nexus. These taxing regimes are complex. For example, in the United States, each state and local taxing authority has its own interpretation of what constitutes a sufficient physical presence or nexus to require the collection and remittance of these taxes. Similarly, each state and local taxing authority has its own rules regarding the applicability of sales tax by customer or product type. 21 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data or our data on our systems, our service may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our service and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. Our service involves the transmission of customers’ proprietary information and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information or a network disruption, which may result in litigation and possible liability. These security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise and result in unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information, cause an interruption in our operations, result in the unauthorized release of customer or employee data, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, expose us to a risk of litigation or damage our reputation, which could harm our business and operating results. Additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers’ data or our data or IT systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, our customers may authorize third-party technology providers to access their customer data. Because we do not control our customers and third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. Malicious third-parties may also conduct attacks designed to temporarily deny customers access to our services. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our service, damage our reputation, negatively impact our future sales, disrupt our business and lead to legal liability. While we believe that we have taken appropriate security measures to minimize these risks to our data and information systems, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center hosting facilities could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We currently serve our customers from third-party data center hosting facilities located in the United States and the United Kingdom. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems generally could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our attrition rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. We do not control the operation of any of these facilities, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Even with the disaster recovery arrangements, our service could be interrupted. Our stock price may be volatile. Historically, the market for technology stocks has been extremely volatile. Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial price volatility. The occurrence of any one or more of the factors noted above could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. In the past couple of years, the stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”) and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. 22 Table of Contents We utilize non-GAAP reporting in our quarterly earnings press releases. We publish non-GAAP financial measures in our quarterly earnings press releases along with a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to those measures compiled in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. GAAP. The reconciling items have adjusted U.S. GAAP net income and U.S. GAAP earnings per share for certain non-cash, non-operating or non-recurring items and are described in detail in each such quarterly earnings press release. We believe that this presentation may be more meaningful to investors in analyzing the results of operations and income generation as this is how our business is managed. The market price of our stock may fluctuate based on future non-GAAP results if investors base their investment decisions upon such non-GAAP financial measures. If we decide to curtail use of non-GAAP financial measures in our quarterly earnings press releases, the market price of our stock could be affected if investors analyze our performance in a different manner. Any weaknesses identified in our system of internal controls by us and our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have an adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies evaluate and report on their systems of internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on its evaluation of those controls. In future periods, we may identify deficiencies, including as a result of the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel, in our system of internal controls over financial reporting that may require remediation. There can be no assurances that any such future deficiencies identified may not be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that would be required to be reported in future periods. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the voting rights of our common stock, from merging or combining with us for a practical period of time. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of SeaChange could limit the opportunity of our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of SeaChange common stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules, or changes to the interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our accounting practices, and such changes could adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Table of Contents 