ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe face a variety of risks that may affect our business, financial condition, operating results, the trading price of our common stock, or any combination thereof. The following information and the other information in this Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, including subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and prospects and before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects may be materially and adversely affected. In such an event, the market price of our common stock may decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business.Risks Related to Doing Business in the PRCChanges in the policies of the PRC government may have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the profitability of such business.Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy, through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in the PRC may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, labor and social insurance, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may harm our business.There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our business. If the relevant authorities find that we are in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation:•levying fines;•revoking our business and other licenses;•requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and•requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business.9Table of ContentsThe fluctuation of the Chinese Yuan Renminbi may harm your investment.Under Chinese monetary policy, the Chinese Yuan Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This policy, which was initiated during 2005, has resulted in a 34.1% appreciation of the Chinese Yuan Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar as of December 31, 2013. While the international reaction to the Chinese Yuan Renminbi revaluation has been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which may result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Chinese Yuan Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar.The PRC's legal and judicial system may not adequately protect our business and operations and the rights of foreign investors.The PRC legal and judicial system may negatively impact foreign investors and are still rudimentary, with enforcement of existing laws inconsistent. In addition, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. Availability of adequate workforce levelsPresently, the vast majority of workers at our PRC factories are obtained from third-party employment agencies. As the labor laws, social insurance and wage levels continue to mature and grow and the workers become more sophisticated, our costs to employ these and other workers in the PRC may grow beyond that anticipated by management. In addition, as the PRC market continues to open up and grow, with the advent of more companies opening plants and businesses in the PRC, we may experience an increase in competition for the same workers, resulting in either an inability to attract and retain an adequate number of qualified workers or an increase in our employment costs to obtain and retain these workers.Expansion in the PRCAs our global business grows, we may decide to expand in China to meet demand. This would be dependent on our ability to locate suitable facilities to support this expansion, to obtain the necessary permits and funding, to attract and retain adequate levels of qualified workers, and to enter into a long term land lease that is common in the PRC.Risks Related to Adverse Changes in General Business and Economic Conditions in the United States and Worldwide and Continued Recession and Tightening in the United States and Worldwide Credit MarketsAdverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. Higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and health care costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.In addition, the global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets resulted in a severe tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets. This financial crisis may impact our business in a number of ways, including:Potential deferment of purchases and orders by customers and cyclical nature of portions of our businessUncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Accordingly, future demand for our products may differ materially from our current expectations.In addition, portions of our business involve the sale of products to sectors of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly the retail sector. Our sales to these sectors are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending. During economic downturns, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending in these sectors may decrease, and the recovery of these sectors may lag behind the recovery of the overall economy. This decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. Although many of our end markets have started to show signs of stabilization and modest improvement, the recovery has been erratic and challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and may worsen. A worsening in these sectors may cause a reduction in the demand for some of our products and may adversely impact sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition.Customers' inability to obtain financing to make purchases from us and/or maintain their businessSome of our customers require substantial financing in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products may adversely impact our financial results. In addition, if the financial crisis results in insolvencies for our customers, it may adversely impact our financial results.10Table of ContentsPotential impact on trade receivablesCredit market conditions may slow our collection efforts as customers experience increased difficulty in obtaining requisite financing, leading to higher than normal accounts receivable balances and longer DSOs. Continuation of these conditions may limit our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which may result in greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense.Negative impact from increased financial pressures on third-party dealers, distributors and retailersWe make sales in certain regions of the world through third-party dealers, distributors and retailers. Although many of these third parties have significant operations and maintain access to available credit, others are smaller and more likely to be impacted by the significant decrease in available credit that has resulted from the current financial crisis. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for these third parties and we are unable to successfully transition our end customers to purchase products from other third parties or from us directly, it may adversely impact our financial results.Negative impact from increased financial pressures on key suppliersOur ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. Certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the financial crisis, it may result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact our financial results. In addition, credit constraints at key suppliers may result in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow.Dependence upon Key SuppliersMost of the components used in our products are available from multiple sources. However, we have elected to purchase integrated circuits, used principally in our wireless control products, from primarily two sources. To reduce our dependence on our integrated circuits suppliers we continually seek additional sources. We maintain inventories of our integrated circuits, which may be used in part to mitigate, but not eliminate, delays resulting from supply interruptions.We have identified alternative sources of supply for our integrated circuit, component parts, and finished goods needs; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain these inventory purchases on a timely basis. Any extended interruption, shortage or termination in the supply of any of the components used in our products, or a reduction in their quality or reliability, or a significant increase in prices of components, would have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows.Disruption of Our Supply Chain May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOur ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, or other reasons, may impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.Dependence on Foreign ManufacturingAlthough we own and operate factories in the PRC, third-party manufacturers located in the PRC continue to manufacture a portion of our products. Our arrangements with these foreign manufacturers are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, such as tariffs, environmental and trade restrictions, intellectual property protection and enforcement, export license requirements, work stoppages, political and social instability, economic and labor conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in laws and policies (including fiscal policies), and other factors, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that the loss of any one or more of our manufacturers would not have a long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows, because numerous other manufacturers are available to fulfill our requirements; however, the loss of any of our major manufacturers may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows until alternative manufacturing arrangements are secured.Potential Fluctuations in Quarterly ResultsWe may from time to time increase our operating expenses to fund greater levels of research and development, sales and marketing activities, development of new distribution channels, improvements in our operational and financial systems and development of 11Table of Contentsour customer support capabilities, and to support our efforts to comply with various government regulations. To the extent such expenses precede or are not subsequently followed by increased revenues, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected.In addition, we may experience significant fluctuations in future quarterly operating results that may be caused by many other factors, including demand for our products, introduction or enhancement of products by us and our competitors, the loss or acquisition of any significant customers, market acceptance of new products, price reductions by us or our competitors, mix of distribution channels through which our products are sold, product or supply constraints, level of product returns, mix of customers and products sold, component pricing, mix of international and domestic revenues, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and general economic conditions. In addition, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. As a result, we believe period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in some future quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens the price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected.Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Cash Flow, Liquidity or Financial Condition.Because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. Historically, our reported net sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our primary exchange rate exposure is in the Argentinian Peso, Brazilian Real, British Pound, Chinese Yuan Renminbi, Euro, Hong Kong Dollar, Indian Rupee, and Singapore Dollar. While we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such losses may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.Our Ability to Generate Cash Depends on Many Factors Beyond Our Control. We Also Depend on the Business of Our Subsidiaries to Satisfy Our Cash Needs.Our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund our other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures.A significant portion of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow for our needs is dependent to some extent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the payment of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. Our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or to provide us with funds to meet our cash flow needs, whether in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. In addition, any payment of dividends, loans or advances by our subsidiaries may be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. Payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. Our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. In addition, even if we are a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. Further, changes in the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the ability of some of our foreign subsidiaries to repatriate funds to us.In addition, we generally fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes through short-term borrowings backed by our revolving credit facility and other financing facilities. If any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform on their commitments, which may adversely affect our ability to fund seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes, our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition may be adversely impacted. Although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt when necessary. Our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions, but also by our debt and credit ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies. Downgrades in these ratings will increase our cost of borrowing and may have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including our access to the commercial paper market. An inability to access the capital markets may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.12Table of ContentsThe Price of Our Common Stock is Volatile and May Decline Regardless of Our Operating Performance.Historically, we have had large fluctuations in the price of our common stock, and such fluctuations may continue. From January 1, 2011 to March 10, 2014, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $11.40 per share to a high of $45.24 per share. The market price for our common stock is volatile and may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including:•the public's response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC and announcements relating to product and technology development, relationships with new and existing customers, litigation and other legal proceedings in which we are involved and intellectual property impacting us or our business;•announcements concerning strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, joint ventures and acquisitions or divestitures;•the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections;•changes in financial estimates or ratings by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our common stock;•investor perceptions as to the likelihood of achievement of near-term goals;•changes in market share of significant customers;•changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology or content providing companies generally; and•market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole.In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we may incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management may be diverted from our business.In addition, our executive officers periodically sell shares of our common stock which they own, often pursuant to trading plans established under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Sales of shares by our executive officers may not be indicative of their respective opinions of the company’s performance at the time of sale or of our potential future performance. Nonetheless, the market price of our stock may be affected by such sales of shares by our executive officers.If Securities or Industry Analysts Fail to Continue Publishing Research About Our Business, Our Stock Price and Trading Volume May Decline.The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we may lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn may cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.Future Sales of Our Equity May Depress the Market Price of Our Common Stock.We have several institutional stockholders that own significant blocks of our common stock. If one or more of these stockholders were to sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the prevailing market price of our common stock may be negatively affected.Approved Stock Repurchase Programs May Not Result in a Positive Return of Capital to Stockholders.Our board-approved stock repurchase program may not return value to stockholders because the market price of the stock may decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Stock repurchase programs are intended to deliver stockholder value over the long term, but stock price fluctuations can reduce the effectiveness of such programs.Dependence on Consumer PreferenceWe are susceptible to fluctuations in our business based upon consumer demand for our products. In addition, we cannot guarantee that increases in demand for our products associated with increases in the deployment of new technology will continue. We believe that our success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to fluctuations in consumer preferences. However, it is impossible to predict with complete accuracy the occurrence and effect of fluctuations in consumer demand over a product's life cycle. Moreover, we caution that any growth in revenues that we achieve may be transitory and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.13Table of ContentsDemand for Consumer Service and SupportWe have continually provided domestic and international consumer service and support to our customers to add overall value and to help differentiate us from our competitors. We continually review our service and support group and are marketing our expertise in this area to other potential customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract new customers in the future.In addition, certain of our products have more features and are more complex than others and therefore require more end-user technical support. In some instances, we rely on distributors or dealers to provide the initial level of technical support to the end-users. We provide the second level of technical support for bug fixes and other issues at no additional charge. Therefore, as the mix of our products includes more of these complex product lines, support costs may increase, which may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Dependence upon New Product IntroductionOur ability to remain competitive in the wireless control and AV accessory products market will depend considerably upon our ability to successfully identify new product opportunities, as well as develop and introduce these products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis. There can be no assurance that we will be successful at developing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products, or that these new or enhanced products will achieve consumer acceptance and, if achieved, will sustain that acceptance. In addition, there can be no assurance that products developed by others will not render our products non-competitive or obsolete or that we will be able to obtain or maintain the rights to use proprietary technologies developed by others which are incorporated in our products. Any failure to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.In addition, the introduction of new products may require significant expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing. In order to achieve high volume production of any new product, we may have to make substantial investments in inventory and expand our production capabilities.Dependence on Major CustomersThe economic strength and weakness of our worldwide customers affect our performance. We sell our wireless control products, AV accessory products, and proprietary technologies to subscription broadcasters, original equipment manufacturers, retailers and private label customers. We also supply our products to our wholly owned, non-U.S. subsidiaries and to independent foreign distributors, who in turn distribute our products worldwide, with Europe, Asia and Latin America currently representing our principal foreign markets.During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had sales to DIRECTV and its sub-contractors, that when combined, totaled 10% or more of our net sales. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we had sales to Sony and its sub-contractors and to DIRECTV and its sub-contractors, that when combined, each totaled 10% or more of our net sales. The loss of any of these customers or of any other key customer, either in the United States or abroad or our inability to maintain order volume with these customers, may have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Outsourced LaborWe continue to use outside resources to assist us in the development of some of our products and technologies. While we believe that such outside services will continue to be available to us, if they cease to be available, the development of these products and technologies may be substantially delayed, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.CompetitionCompetition within the wireless control industry is based primarily on product availability, price, speed of delivery, ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality, and depth of product lines. Our competition is fragmented across our products, and, accordingly, we do not compete with any one company across all product lines. We compete with a variety of entities, some of which have greater financial resources. Other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. Our ability to remain competitive in this industry depends in part on our ability to successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and introduce new products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, as well as our ability to successfully identify and enter into strategic alliances with entities doing business within the industries we serve. Competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products. There can be no assurance that our product offerings will be, and/or will remain, competitive or that strategic alliances, if any, will achieve the type, extent, and amount of success or 14Table of Contentsbusiness that we expect them to achieve. The sales of our products and technology may not occur or grow in the manner we expect, and thus we may not recoup costs incurred in the research and development of these products as quickly as we expect, if at all.Patents, Trademarks, and CopyrightsThe procedures by which we identify, document and file for patent, trademark, and copyright protection are based solely on engineering and management judgment, with no assurance that a specific filing will be issued, or if issued, will deliver any lasting value to us. Because of the rapid innovation of products and technologies that is characteristic of our industry, there can be no assurance that rights granted under any patent will provide competitive advantages to us or will be adequate to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights. Moreover, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold may not offer protection on such products and associated intellectual property to the same extent that the United States legal system may offer.In our opinion, our intellectual property holdings as well as our engineering, production, and marketing skills and the experience of our personnel are of equal importance to our market position. We further believe that our business is not materially dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret.Some of our products include or use technology and/or components of third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of such products, we believe that, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses may be obtained on commercially reasonable terms; however, there can be no guarantee that such licenses may be obtained on such terms or at all. Because of technological changes in the wireless and home control industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible certain components of our products and business methods may unknowingly infringe upon the patents of others.Potential for LitigationAs is typical in our industry and for the nature and kind of business in which we are engaged, from time to time various claims, charges and litigation are asserted or commenced by third parties against us or by us against third parties, arising from or related to product liability, infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights, breach of warranty, contractual relations or employee relations. The amounts claimed may be substantial, but they may not bear any reasonable relationship to the merits of the claims or the extent of any real risk of court awards assessed against us or in our favor.Risks of Conducting Business InternationallyRisks of doing business internationally may adversely affect our sales, operations, earnings and cash flows due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to:•changes in a country or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations, forced political actions or elections, coops, and actual or anticipated military conflicts;•so called "Acts of God", such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters, man-made disasters, and the spread of contagious diseases, such as H1N1 Flu, Avian Flu, and SARS, in locations where we own, manage or operate our business;•currency fluctuations affecting gross margins, particularly in the Chinese Yuan Renminbi, Euro, British Pound, Argentinian Peso, Brazilian Real, Indian Rupee, and Singapore Dollar;•longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers;•trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products;•local labor conditions, customs, and regulations;•production stoppages or pressures to increase wages and employee benefits brought about by the union representing our labor force in Manaus, Brazil;•changes in the regulatory or legal environment;•ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights;•differing technology standards or customer requirements;•import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements related to making foreign direct investments, which may affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions;•difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and•fluctuations in freight costs and disruptions at important geographic points of exit and entry.15Table of ContentsRisks and Uncertainties Associated with Our Expansion Into and Our Operations in Asia, Europe, Mexico, South America and Other Foreign Markets May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Cash Flow, Liquidity or Financial ConditionNet external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately 53.0%, 54.5% and 57.3% of our total consolidated net sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Sales outside of the United States make up a significant part of our current business and future strategic plans. Our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition may be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange controls, interest rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. Our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to these factors may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.In many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. Although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. Any violation may cause an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.Our Brand Quality and ReputationOur business depends on the quality and reputation of our brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of these brands may have an adverse impact on our market share, reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. Events that may be beyond our control may affect the reputation of one or more of our products or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. If the reputation or perceived quality of our brands declines, our market share, reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations may be affected.Failure to Maintain the Integrity of Internal or Customer Data May Result in Faulty Business Decisions, Operational Inefficiencies, Damage of Reputation and/or Subject Us to Costs, Fines, or LawsuitsOur business requires collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including personally identifiable information of our customers in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide services, including in areas such as banking, human resources outsourcing, website hosting, and email marketing. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. If that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we may make faulty decisions. Our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we and our service providers will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment as well as the requirements imposed on us regarding such information, security and privacy is also increasingly demanding, in both the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our systems may be unable to satisfy changing regulatory requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. Our information systems and records, including those we maintain with our service providers, may be subject to security breaches, system failures, viruses, operator error or inadvertent releases of data. A significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data maintained by us or by a service provider may adversely impact our reputation and may result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. A breach in the security of our information systems or those of our service providers may lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits.Effectiveness of Our Internal Control Over Financial ReportingPursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to audit our internal control over financial reporting and separately report on whether it believes we maintain, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we cannot be certain that future material changes to our internal control over financial reporting will be effective. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action may adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock.16Table of ContentsUnanticipated Changes in Tax and Other Laws and RegulationsOur business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of laws, regulations and policies in jurisdictions around the world. In response to the recent economic crisis and the recent recession, we anticipate that many of the jurisdictions in which we do business will continue to review tax and other revenue raising laws, regulations and policies, and any resulting changes may impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our profits. In particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations or official interpretations in ways that may have a significant impact on us, including modifications that may reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-U.S. operations, or that may require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. For example, most U.S. company effective tax rates reflect the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the United States is generally taxed at local rates, which are often much lower than U.S. tax rates. If changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations significantly increase the tax rates on non-U.S. income, our effective tax rate may increase and our profits may be reduced. If such increases resulted from our status as a U.S. company, those changes may place us at a disadvantage to our non-U.S. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates.In addition, from time to time, we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges or other matters and assess additional taxes. We assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of the tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits may have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future may be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. Furthermore, our tax provisions may be adversely affected as a result of any new interpretative accounting guidance related to accounting for uncertain tax positions.Environmental MattersMany of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in products, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. In addition, many of these laws and regulations make producers of electrical goods responsible for collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of recovered products. As a result, we may face significant costs and liabilities in complying with these laws and any future laws and regulations or enforcement policies that may have a material adverse effect upon our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows.Leased PropertyWe lease all of the properties used in our business. We can give no assurance that we will enter into new or renewal leases, or that, if entered into, the new lease terms will be similar to the existing terms or that the terms of any such new or renewal leases will not have a significant and material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Technology Changes in Wireless ControlWe currently derive substantial revenue from the sale of wireless remote controls based on IR and RF and other technologies. Other control technologies exist or may be developed that may compete with this technology. In addition, we develop and maintain our own database of IR and RF codes. There are competing IR and RF libraries offered by companies that we compete with in the marketplace. The advantage that we may have compared to our competitors is difficult to measure. In addition, if other wireless control technology gains acceptance and starts to be integrated into home electronics devices currently controlled through our IR remote controllers, demand for our products may decrease, resulting in decreased operating results, financial condition, and cash flows.Our Technology Development Activities may Experience Delays.We may experience technical, financial, resource or other difficulties or delays related to the further development of our technologies. Delays may have adverse financial effects and may allow competitors with comparable technology offerings to gain an advantage over us in the marketplace or in the standards setting arena. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have adequate staffing or that our development efforts will ultimately be successful. Moreover, certain of our technologies have not been fully tested in commercial use, and it is possible that they may not perform as expected. In such cases, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected, and our ability to secure new licensees and other business opportunities may be diminished.17Table of ContentsFailure to Recruit, Hire, and Retain Key PersonnelOur ability to achieve growth in the future will depend, in part, on our success at recruiting, hiring, training, developing and retaining highly skilled engineering, managerial, operational, sales and marketing personnel. If our salary and benefits fail to stay competitive it may negatively impact our ability to hire and retain key personnel and we may experience low morale, inefficiency or internal control failures. The inability to recruit, hire, train, develop and retain qualified personnel, or the loss of any key personnel, may make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions and also limit our ability to grow and expand our business.Change in Competition and PricingEven with having our own factories located in the PRC, we will continue to rely on third-party manufacturers to build a portion of our universal wireless control products. Price is always an issue in winning and retaining business. If customers become increasingly price sensitive, new competition may arise from manufacturers who decide to go into direct competition with us or from current competitors who perform their own manufacturing. If such a trend develops, we may experience downward pressure on our pricing or lose sales, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Transportation Costs and Impact of Oil PricesWe ship products from our factories and foreign manufacturers via ocean and air transport. It is sometimes difficult to forecast swings in demand or delays in production and, as a result, products may be shipped via air which is more costly than ocean shipments. We typically cannot recover the increased cost of air freight from our customers. Additionally, tariffs and other export fees may be incurred to ship products from foreign manufacturers to the customer. The inability to predict swings in demand or delays in production may increase the cost of freight which may have a material adverse effect on our product margins.In addition, we have an exposure to oil prices in two forms. The first is in the prices of oil-based materials in our products, which are primarily the plastics and other components that we include in our finished products. The second is in the cost of delivery and freight, which would be passed on by the carriers that we use in the form of higher rates. We record freight-in as a cost of sales and freight-out in operating expenses. Rising oil prices may have an adverse effect on cost of sales and operating expenses.Proprietary TechnologiesWe produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including hardware, firmware, and software. Firmware and software may contain bugs that may unexpectedly interfere with product operation. There can be no assurance that our testing programs will detect all defects in individual products or defects that may affect numerous shipments. The presence of defects may harm customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or increase returns. An inability to cure or repair such a defect may result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, increased inventory costs, or product re-engineering expenses, any of which may have a material impact on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Strategic Business TransactionsWe may, from time to time, pursue strategic alliances, joint ventures, business acquisitions, products or technologies ("strategic business transactions") that complement or expand our existing operations, including those that may be material in size and scope. Strategic business transactions involve many risks, including the diversion of management's attention away from day-to-day operations. There is also the risk that we will not be able to successfully integrate the strategic business transaction with our operations, personnel, customer base, products or technologies. Such strategic business transactions may also have adverse short-term effects on our operating results, and may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, and the loss of key employees. In addition, these strategic business transactions are subject to specific accounting guidelines that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.Growth ProjectionsManagement has made projections required for the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America regarding future events and the financial performance of the company, including those involving:•the benefits the company expects as a result of the development and success of products and technologies, including new products and technologies;•the benefits expected by conducting business in Asian and Brazilian markets, without which, we may not be able to recover the costs we incur to enter into such markets;•the recently announced new contracts with new and existing customers and new market penetrations;18Table of Contents•the expected continued adoption of the company's technologies in gaming consoles and mobile devices;•the expected continued growth in digital TVs, DVRs, PVRs and overall growth in the company's industry; and•the effects we may experience due to the continued softness in worldwide markets driven by the current economic environment.Actual events or results may be unfavorable to management's projections, which may have a material adverse effect on our projected operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Additionally, we have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. We periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such value may not be recoverable. Impairment assessment involves judgment as to assumptions regarding future sales and cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions and may result in changes in our estimates of future sales and cash flows that may result in us incurring substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.Market Projections and Data are Forward-looking in Nature.Our strategy is based on our own projections and on analyst, industry observer and expert projections, which are forward-looking in nature and are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. The validity of their and our assumptions, the timing and scope of the markets within which we compete, economic conditions, customer buying patterns, the timeliness of equipment development, pricing of products, and availability of capital for infrastructure improvements may affect these predictions. In addition, market data upon which we rely is based on third party reports that may be inaccurate. The inaccuracy of any of these projections and/or market data may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.Delaware Law and Our Governing Corporate Documents Contain, and Our Board of Directors May Implement, Antitakeover Provisions that May Deter Takeover AttemptsUnder the Delaware business combination statute, a stockholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock may not acquire us without Board of Director consent for at least three years after the date the stockholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. Our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require super-majority votes in connection with mergers and similar transactions. In addition, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a stockholder's rights plan.Regulations Related to the Use of Conflict-Free Minerals May Increase Our Costs and Expenses, and an Inability to Certify that Our Products are Conflict-Free May Adversely Affect Customer RelationshipsThe Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve the transparency and accountability of the use by public companies in their products of minerals mined in certain countries and to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict” minerals. As a result, the Securities and Exchange Commission enacted new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for public companies that use these minerals in their products, which apply to us. Under the final rules, we are required to conduct due diligence to determine the source of any conflict minerals used in our products and to make annual disclosures beginning in May 2014. Because our supply chain is broad-based and complex, we may not be able to easily verify the origins for all minerals used in our products. In addition, the new rules may reduce the number of suppliers who provide components and products containing conflict-free minerals and thus may increase the cost of the components used in manufacturing our products and the costs of our products to us. Any increased costs and expenses may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed.We are Subject to a Wide Variety of Complex Domestic and Foreign Laws and Regulations.We are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, U.S. and foreign export and trading laws, and laws governing improper business practices. We are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. From time to time, our Company, our operations and the industries in which we operate are being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which may lead to enforcement actions or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages.Although we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that compliance risks will continue to exist. Investigations, examinations and 19Table of Contentsother proceedings, the nature and outcome of which cannot be predicted, will likely arise from time to time. These investigations, examinations and other proceedings may subject us to significant liability and require us to make significant accruals or pay significant settlements, fines and penalties, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.We are Required to Comply with Numerous Complex and Increasingly Stringent Domestic and Foreign Health, Safety and Environmental Laws and Regulations, the Cost of Which is Likely to Increase.Our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. We expect health, safety and environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. Our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.Changes in Financial Accounting Standards or Policies may affect our Reported Financial Condition or Results of Operations.From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and the SEC change their guidance governing the form and content of our external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), such as the FASB and the SEC may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions with regard to how these standards should be applied. A change in accounting principles or their interpretation can have a significant effect on our reported results. In certain cases, the company may be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively or apply existing guidance differently. For example, in January 2012, the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board released an updated exposure draft, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which, if it becomes final, may significantly impact the timing of revenue recognition for new and existing contracts with licensees. This and other potential changes in reporting standards may substantially change our reporting practices in a number of areas, including revenue recognition and recording of assets and liabilities, and affect our reported financial condition or results of operations.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSWe have no unresolved staff comments on the filing date of this Form 10-K.20Table of Contents