Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated by reference herein, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. Such factors could have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our inability to retain and, as necessary, strengthen our executive management team would be detrimental to the success of our business. We rely heavily on a small group of senior executives and retaining their services is important to our future success. As we continue to grow the business, the executive management team will face increasing challenges and the possible need to supplement or expand the existing team, as well as put in place a necessary succession plan. Any failures in this regard could impact, among other factors, our revenues, growth and profitability. Our inability to retain highly skilled consulting professionals could have a material adverse effect on our success. We rely heavily on our consulting staff and management team. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to hire, retain, develop and motivate highly skilled professionals. Competition for these skilled professionals is intense and our inability to hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of consultants and managers could have a serious effect on our ability to meet client needs. A loss of a significant number of our employees could have a serious negative effect on us. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain current pricing and utilization rates. Our revenue, and thereby our profitability, is largely based on the bill rates charged to clients and the number of hours our professionals work on client engagements, which we define as the “utilization” of our professionals. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the pricing for our services or an appropriate utilization rate for our professionals, revenues, project profit margins and our profitability will suffer. Pricing 7 Table of Contents pressures could result in changes in pricing policies and project profit margins. Bill rates and utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: • Our ability to predict future demand for services and maintain the appropriate headcount without significant underutilized personnel; • Our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new engagements; • Our clients’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our services; • Our competitors’ pricing of services; • The market demand for our services; • Our ability to manage our human capital resources; and • Our ability to manage significantly larger and more diverse workforces as we increase the number of our professionals and execute our growth strategies. Our use of equity-based compensation could impact our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees. Any significant volatility or sustained decline in the market price of our common stock or availability due to usage restrictions could impair our ability to use equity-based compensation to attract, retain and motivate key employees. Compensation and retention related issues are a continuing challenge. We face significant challenges in achieving and managing growth. Failure to meet these challenges could have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. The increased scale and complexity of our businesses may require additional management systems that we may not be able to implement in a timely manner. The challenges of achieving and managing sustained growth may cause strain on our management team, management processes and our information technology systems. If we are unsuccessful in meeting these challenges, this may impair our financial results, competitive position and ability to retain our professionals. We may be exposed to potential risks if we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal controls. If we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting or fail to implement necessary new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we may fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, or be unable to adequately report on our business and the results of operations. This could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Nevertheless, even with adequate controls, we may not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. Also, controls that are currently adequate may in the future become inadequate because of changes in conditions. The degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. Regulatory and legislative changes affecting us, our clients, competitors, or staff could have an impact on our business. Many of our clients are in highly regulated industries such as the healthcare, energy, financial institutions and insurance industries. Regulatory and legislative changes in these industries could impact the market for our service offerings and could render our service offerings obsolete. In addition, regulatory and legislative changes could impact the competition for consulting services. This change could either increase or decrease our position compared with our competitors. Our client engagements are generally short term in nature, less than one year, and may be terminated. Our inability to attract business from new or existing clients could have a material adverse effect on us. We might not meet our current or future commitments if we do not continually secure new engagements. 8 Table of Contents Many of the client engagement agreements can be terminated by our clients with little or no notice and without penalty. For example, in engagements related to litigation, if the litigation is settled, our engagement for those services usually is no longer necessary and is promptly terminated. Some of our work involves multiple engagements or stages. In those engagements, there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages of an engagement or that a client will cancel or delay additional planned engagements. Our engagements are usually relatively short term in comparison to our office-related expenses and other infrastructure commitments. Additionally, the above mentioned factors limit our ability to predict future revenues and required professional staffing, which can impact our financial results. Our client engagements and revenues are frequently event-driven and therefore difficult to forecast. In the past, we have derived significant revenues from events as inherently unpredictable as the California energy crisis, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Hurricane Katrina. Those events, in addition to being unpredictable, often have impacts that decline over time as clients adjust to and compensate for the challenges they face. These factors limit our ability to predict future revenues and required professional staffing, which can impact our financial results. We have invested in specialized systems, processes and intellectual capital for which we may fail to recover our investment or which may become obsolete. We have developed specialized systems and processes that provide a competitive advantage in serving current clients and obtaining new clients. Additionally, many of our service offerings rely on technology that is subject to rapid change. Our intellectual capital, in certain service offerings, may be rendered obsolete due to new governmental regulation. Unsuccessful client engagements could result in damage to our professional reputation or legal liability which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our professional reputation and that of our consultants is critical to our ability to successfully compete for new client engagements and attract or retain professionals. Any factors that damage our professional reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our engagements are subject to the risk of legal liability. Any public assertion or litigation alleging that our services were negligent or that we breached any of our obligations to a client could expose us to significant legal liabilities, could distract our management and could damage our reputation. We carry professional liability insurance, but our insurance may not cover every type of claim or liability that could potentially arise from our engagements. In addition, the limits of our insurance coverage may not be enough to cover a particular claim or a group of claims, and the costs of defense. Some of the work that we do involves greater risk than ordinary consulting engagements. We do work for clients that for financial, legal or other reasons may present higher than normal risks. While we attempt to identify higher risk engagements and higher risk clients in time to avoid unnecessary risks or to limit our potential exposure, these efforts may be ineffective and a professional error or omission in one or more of these higher-risk engagements could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Examples of higher risk engagements include, but are not limited to: • Interim management engagements, usually in hospitals and other healthcare providers; • Expert witness engagements; • Corporate restructuring engagements, both inside and outside bankruptcy proceedings; • Engagements where we deliver a fairness opinion; • Engagements where we deliver a compliance effectiveness opinion; 9 Table of Contents • Engagements where we deliver an actuarial opinion with respect to insurance company loss reserves; and • Engagements involving independent consultants’ reports in support of bond financings. As we become larger, we increasingly encounter professional conflicts of interest. As we become larger, the potential for conflicts of interest also increases. If we are unable to accept new engagements for any reason, including a conflict of interest, our consultants may become underutilized or discontented, which may adversely affect our future revenues and results of operations. We may also have a hard time retaining such consultants. In addition, although we have systems and procedures to identify potential conflicts prior to accepting each new engagement, those systems are not fool-proof and undetected conflicts may result in damage to our reputation and professional liability. Our international operations create special risks. We have offices in three countries outside the U.S. and conduct business in several other countries. We expect to continue our international expansion, and our international revenues are expected to account for an increasing portion of our revenues in the future. Our international operations carry special financial and business risks, including: • Cultural and language differences; • Employment laws and related factors that could result in lower utilization and cyclical fluctuations of utilization and revenues; • Currency fluctuations that adversely affect our financial position and operating results; • Burdensome regulatory requirements and other barriers to conducting business; • Greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations; • Restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and • Potentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses. If we are not able to quickly adapt to our new markets, our business prospects and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We cannot be assured that we will be able to raise capital or obtain debt financing to consummate future acquisitions or to meet required working capital needs. We maintain a $500 million unsecured credit facility including a term loan agreement and a revolving line of credit agreement to assist in funding short-term and long-term cash requirements from normal operations. This agreement contains certain covenants requiring, among other things, certain levels of interest and debt coverage. Poor performance could cause us to be in default of these covenants. In addition, the current agreement may not be sufficient to meet the future needs of our business if a decline in financial performance occurs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise capital or obtain debt financing to effect future acquisitions or to otherwise meet our working capital needs. Furthermore, if our clients’ financial condition were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments to us, we and our financial results would be adversely impacted, which could result in all of the effects described above. We may not be able to acquire businesses in the future and already acquired businesses may not achieve expected results. We have developed our business, in part, through the acquisition of complementary businesses. There has been increasing competition for acquisition targets, as possible acquirers also seek to expand their businesses through acquisitions. The increased competition may continue to make it more difficult for us to complete 10 Table of Contents acquisitions or to complete acquisitions on as favorable terms as in the past. Those factors may also make it more difficult to achieve an acceptable return of our capital on certain business acquisitions. The financing of acquisitions through cash, borrowings or common stock could also impair liquidity or cause significant stock dilution. We may not be able to effectively integrate the businesses we acquire, which may adversely affect us. The substantial majority of the purchase price we pay for acquired businesses is related to intangible assets. We may not be able to realize the value of those assets or otherwise realize anticipated synergies unless we are able to effectively integrate the businesses we acquire. We face multiple challenges in integrating acquired businesses and their personnel, including differences in corporate cultures and management styles, conflict issues with clients, and the need to divert managerial resources that would otherwise be dedicated to our current businesses. Any failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses could adversely affect our financial performance. Our work with governmental clients has inherent risks related to the governmental contracting process. We work for various municipal, state and federal entities and agencies. These projects have risks that include, but are not limited to, the following: • Government entities reserve the right to audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs, and conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to government contracts. If the government finds that the costs are not reimbursable, then we will not be allowed to bill for them, or the cost must be refunded to the government if it has already been paid to us. Findings from an audit also may result in our being required to prospectively adjust previously agreed rates for work and affect future margins. • If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of that government. The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities, regardless of the adequacy of such controls. • Government contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than other commercial contracts. Negative publicity related to our government contracts, regardless of whether it is accurate, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. The impact of any of the occurrences or conditions described above could affect not only our relationship with the particular government agency involved, but also other agencies of the same or other governmental entities. Depending on the size of the project or the magnitude of the potential costs, penalties or negative publicity involved, any of these occurrences or conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could adversely affect our competitive position; failure to comply could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain related laws, which generally prohibit U.S. companies from engaging in bribery of, or other prohibited payments to, foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Corruption, bribery, pay-offs, and other fraudulent practices involving foreign officials occur from time-to-time in the markets in which we operate. There is no assurance that employees and agents have not engaged and will not engage in misconduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe monetary penalties and other legal consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, properties, prospects, financial conditions and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to unpredictable risks of litigation. Although we seek to avoid litigation whenever possible, from time to time we are party to various lawsuits and claims in the ordinary course of business. Disputes may arise, for example, from client engagements, employment issues, regulatory actions, corporate acquisitions, real estate and other business transactions. The costs and outcome of those lawsuits or claims cannot be predicted with certainty, and may be worse than we can foresee. This could have a material adverse effect on us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 