ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. We could suffer additional loan losses from a continued decline in credit quality. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors, and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Declines in real estate values have adversely affected our credit quality and profitability. During 2008, confidence in the credit market for residential housing finance significantly eroded, which resulted in a reduction in financing available to buyers of new homes and borrowers wishing to refinance existing financing terms. The tightening of credit for residential housing led to lower demand for residential housing and more foreclosures, and has reduced the absorption rate for new and existing properties. In turn, this tightening of credit has caused market prices to fall as some property owners, including lenders who acquired property by foreclosure, have accepted lower prices to reduce their exposure to these real estate assets, which has reduced the market values for comparable real estate. The declines in values and the increased level of marketing required to sell properties has reduced or eliminated the potential profits to many of the builders and developers of properties to whom we have extended loans. As a result, some of these borrowers have been unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms, which has led to an increase in our past due, impaired and non-performing loans. If these housing trends continue or exacerbate, the Company expects that it will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. In addition, declining real estate and other asset values may reduce the available equity associated with these assets, which, in turn, would limit the ability of borrowers to use such equity to support borrowings. Moreover, if the current recession continues, the Company may be required to further increase our loan loss provision, and may experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. An increase in our loan loss provision or increased credit losses would reduce earnings and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Furthermore, to the extent that real estate collateral is obtained through foreclosure, the costs of holding and marketing the real estate collateral, as well as the ultimate values obtained from disposition, could reduce the Company’s earnings and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. The Company’s business volume and growth is affected by the rate of growth and demand for housing in specific geographic markets. Based on the activity discussed above, the Company’s future rate of growth, if any, could be significantly less than its historical levels and its assets may in fact shrink, depending on the duration and extent of the current disruption in the housing and mortgage markets. We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition and development and construction loans for builders and developers. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $389.3 million, or 44.0%, of our total loan portfolio represented loans for which the related property is neither presold nor preleased. These land acquisition and development and construction loans are considered more risky than other types of loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks, and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk that borrowers cannot obtain affordable financing, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. There can be no assurance that losses in our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. Given the 16 Table of Contents current environment, the non-performing loans in our land acquisition and development and construction portfolio may increase substantially in 2009, and these non-performing loans could result in a material level of charge-offs, which will negatively impact our capital and earnings. Ongoing deterioration in the housing market and the homebuilding industry may lead to increased losses and further worsening of delinquencies and non-performing assets in our loan portfolios. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. There has been substantial industry concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to subprime mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. As of December 31, 2008, our non-performing assets increased significantly to $41.5 million, or 4.62%, of our loan portfolio plus other real estate owned. Furthermore, the housing and the residential mortgage markets recently have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default, and the net realizable value of real estate owned. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets, including some of the markets in which we lend. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we are facing increased delinquencies and non-performing assets as these builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not know when the housing market will improve, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses, and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio may occur. Weakness in residential property values and mortgage loan markets could adversely affect us. Recent weakness in the secondary market for residential lending could have an adverse impact upon our profitability. Pricing may change rapidly impacting the value of loans in our portfolio. This has been most pronounced in residential construction and development loans, and in subprime and Alt-A lending. The turmoil in the mortgage markets, combined with the ongoing correction in real estate markets, could result in further price reductions in single family home prices and lack of liquidity in refinancing markets. These factors could adversely impact the quality of our residential construction and residential mortgage portfolio in various ways, including creating discrepancies in value between the original appraisal and the value at time of sale, and by decreasing the value of the collateral for our mortgage loans. We also have a significant amount of loans on one-to-four family residential properties, which are secured principally by single-family residences. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size and geographically dispersed throughout our market area. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend to large degree on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions, and collateral values, and are therefore difficult to predict. Additionally, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which the loans were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements sometimes require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. While we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, these steps might not be effective and might not lessen the risks associated with loans sold in the past. If repurchase demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. The amount of “other real estate owned” (“OREO”) may increase significantly, resulting in additional losses, and costs and expenses that will negatively affect our operations At December 31, 2007, we had a total of $1.5 million of OREO, and at December 31, 2008, we had a total of $13.2 million of OREO, reflecting a $11.7 increase, or 775.7%, from 2007 to 2008. This increase in OREO is due, among other things, to the continued deterioration of the residential real estate market and the tightening of the 17 Table of Contents credit market. As the amount of OREO increases, our losses, and the costs and expenses to maintain the real estate likewise increase. Due to the on-going economic crisis, the amount of OREO may continue to increase throughout 2009. Any additional increase in losses, and maintenance costs and expenses due to OREO may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Such effects may be particularly pronounced in a market of reduced real estate values and excess inventory, which may make the disposition of OREO properties more difficult, increase maintenance costs and expenses, and may reduce our ultimate realization from any OREO sales. Recent negative developments in the financial industry, and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments during 2008 in the global credit and derivative markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing in 2009. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Global securities markets, and bank holding company stock prices in particular, have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. If these negative trends continue, our business operations and financial results may be negatively affected. The deterioration in the residential mortgage market may continue to spread to commercial credits, which may result in greater losses and non-performing assets, adversely affecting our business operations. The losses that were initially associated with subprime residential mortgages rapidly spread into the residential mortgage market generally. If the losses in the residential mortgage market continue to spread to commercial credits, then we may be forced to take greater losses or to hold more non-performing assets. Our business operations and financial results could be adversely affected if we continue to experience losses from our commercial loan portfolio. The FDIC Deposit Insurance assessments that we are required to pay may materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings. As an insured depository institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. These assessments are required to ensure that FDIC deposit insurance reserve ratio is at least 1.15% of insured deposits. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, when the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. The recent failures of several financial institutions have significantly increased the Deposit Insurance Fund’s loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. Beginning on January 1, 2009, there is a uniform 7 basis points (annualized) increase to the assessments that banks pay for deposit insurance. The increased assessment rates range from 12 to 50 basis points (annualized) for the first quarter of 2009 assessment. In addition, the FDIC is currently considering a proposal that would increase the assessments that riskier institutions pay, beginning in the second quarter of 2009. As of January 31, 2009, the FDIC had not adopted the proposed increased assessments for riskier institutions, but we cannot predict whether the FDIC will adopt this rule. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we paid $809,545 in deposit insurance assessments. Due to the recent failure of several unaffiliated FDIC insurance depository institutions and the corresponding increase in assessments, we will be required to pay additional amounts to the Deposit Insurance Fund throughout 2009, which could have an adverse effect on our earnings. If the deposit insurance premium assessment rate applicable to us increases again, either because of our risk classification or because of another uniform increase, our earnings could be further adversely impacted. 18 Table of Contents Future impairment losses could be required on various investment securities, which may materially reduce the Company’s and the Bank’s regulatory capital levels. The Company establishes fair value estimates of securities available-for-sale in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company’s estimates can change from reporting period to reporting period, and we cannot provide any assurance that the fair value estimates of our investment securities would be the realizable value in the event of a sale of the securities. A number of factors could cause the Company to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that any difference between the fair value and the amortized cost of one or more of the securities that we own constitutes an other-than-temporary impairment. These factors include, but are not limited to, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the length of time unrealized losses continue without an improvement in value, a change in our intent or ability to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the forecasted recovery, or changes in market conditions or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value, including adverse developments concerning the financial condition of the companies in which we have invested. The Company may be required to take other-than-temporary impairment charges on various securities in its investment portfolio. In addition, depending on various factors, including the fair values of other securities that we hold, we may be required to take additional other-than-temporary impairment charges on other investment securities. Any other-than-temporary impairment charges would negatively affect our regulatory capital levels, and may result in a change to our capitalization category, which could limit certain corporate practices and could compel us to take specific actions. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company recognized an other than temporary impairment charge of $816,000 on its investment in Freddie Mac preferred stock. The value of these securities declined significantly after the U.S. Government placed the company into conservatorship in September 2008. The remaining carrying value of the preferred stock at December 31, 2008 is $6,000. A reduction in the fair value attributable to recently acquired units of our business may result in the Company having to recognize a non-cash goodwill impairment charge, which would negatively impact our earnings and, consequently, our ability to pay dividends. In 1998 the Company acquired a bank located in Blairsville, Georgia. We booked $1,991,891 in goodwill as an intangible asset on its balance sheet in connection with this acquisition. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” requires us to make a periodic assessment of any goodwill we carry on our balance sheet by comparing the current fair value of each unit for which goodwill has been recognized to that unit’s book value. In the event that the assessment shows that the book value of any unit exceeds its fair value, a non-cash, after-tax, we must take a goodwill impairment charge equal to the difference between relevant book and fair values. While such a goodwill impairment charge would have no impact on our regulatory capital ratios or liquidity position, it would result in a reduction of our earnings. The goodwill impairment assessment must occur on at least an annual basis, or more frequently as changing circumstances would dictate. The Company normally performs its annual assessment on December 31 of each year. After its December 31, 2008 assessment, we determined that no goodwill impairment change was necessary. However, the weakening of real estate markets, both nationally and locally in our primary market area, the tightening of credit, and other events of the past months have generally resulted in the lowered market valuation of financial institutions operating in the southeastern United States and may require that we realize a goodwill impairment charge in 2009. 19 Table of Contents If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the quality of our assets, particularly loans. In originating loans, there is a substantial likelihood that we will experience credit losses. The risk of loss will vary with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the quality of the collateral for the loan. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. As a result, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses, and we may need to make adjustments to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. As a result of a difficult real estate market, we have increased our allowance from $9.8 million as of December 31, 2007 to $14.5 million as of December 31, 2008. We expect to continue to increase our allowance in 2009; however, given current and future market conditions, we can make no assurance that our allowance will be adequate to cover future loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulators could have a negative effect on our operating results. Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within our geographic footprint, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. Declines in the U.S. economy and our local real estate markets contributed to our increasing provisions for loan losses during 2008, and may result in additional loan losses and loss provisions for 2009. These factors could result in further increases in loan loss provisions, and additional delinquencies, charge-offs, or both in future periods, any of which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations continue to decline, this could result in, among other things, further deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on our loan portfolio and additional increases to our allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, deterioration of the U.S. economy may adversely impact our banking business more generally. Economic declines may be accompanied by a decrease in demand for consumer or commercial credit and declining real estate and other asset values. Declining real estate and other asset values may reduce the ability of borrowers to use such equity to support borrowings. Delinquencies, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. Additionally, our servicing costs, collection costs, and credit losses may also increase in periods of economic slowdown or recessions. Effects of the current real estate slowdown have not been limited to those directly involved in the real estate construction industry (such as builders and developers). Rather, it has impacted a number of related businesses such as building materials suppliers, equipment leasing firms, and real estate attorneys, among others, and the current recession has negatively impacted businesses of all types. All of these affected businesses have banking relationships, and when their businesses suffer from an economic slowdown or recession, the banking relationship suffers as well. 20 Table of Contents Our net interest income could be negatively affected by the Federal Reserve’s recent interest rate adjustments, as well as by competition in our market area. As a financial institution, our earnings significantly depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as investment securities and loans, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes resulting from changes in the Federal Reserve’s fiscal and monetary policies, affects us more than non-financial institutions and can have a significant effect on our net interest income and total income. Our assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and liabilities. As a result, an increase or decrease in market interest rates could have material adverse effects on our net interest margin and results of operations. Since January 2008, in response to the dramatic deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit, and liquidity markets, the Federal Reserve has taken action on seven occasions to reduce interest rates by a total of 400 to 425 basis points, which has reduced our net interest income and will likely continue to reduce this income for the foreseeable future. Any reduction in our net interest income will negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, operating results, cash flows and, potentially, the price of our securities. Additionally, in 2009, we expect to have continued margin pressure given these historically low interest rates, along with elevated levels of non-performing assets. Our access to additional short term funding to meet our liquidity needs is limited. We must maintain, on a daily basis, sufficient funds to cover withdrawals from depositors’ accounts and to supply new borrowers with funds. We routinely monitor asset and liability maturities in an attempt to match maturities to meet liquidity needs. To meet our cash obligations, we rely on repayments as assets mature, keep cash on hand, maintain account balances with correspondent banks, purchase and sell federal funds, purchase brokered deposits, and maintain a line of credit with the Federal Home Loan Bank. If we are unable to meet our liquidity needs through our cash on hand, and loan and other asset repayments, we may need to borrow additional funds. Currently, our access to additional borrowed funds is limited, and we may be required to pay above market rates for additional borrowed funds, which may adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $262.7 million in out of market deposits, including brokered deposits, which represented approximately 25.9% of our total deposits. At times, the cost of out of market and brokered deposits exceeds the cost of deposits in our local market. In addition, the cost of out of market and brokered deposits can be volatile, and if we are unable to access these markets or if our costs related to out of market and brokered deposits increases, our liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. Our business strategy includes stabilizing growth, preserving market presence and raising capital, and as a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to effectively stabilize our growth, preserve our market presence or raise capital. In light of the current adverse economic conditions, expenses, and difficulties currently being experienced in our industry, we intend to stabilize the growth of our business while preserving our market presence. In addition, as a result of the current economic environment, we plan to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you we will be able to stabilize growth and preserve our market presence in our existing markets or successfully raise capital. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or future prospects, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Our ability to successfully stabilize our growth and preserve our market presence will depend on a variety of factors including the current economic environment, the availability of desirable business opportunities, and the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to preserve our market presence, stabilize our growth and raise capital, there can be no assurance that capital will be available or growth, in light of current economic conditions, will be managed successfully. 21 Table of Contents Adverse market conditions and future losses may require us to raise additional capital to support our operations, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our current capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired. Our ability to raise capital could be limited and could be dilutive to existing shareholders. Current capital markets are such that traditional sources of capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms. If we need to raise capital, there is no guarantee that we will be able to borrow funds or successfully raise additional capital at all or on terms that are favorable or otherwise not dilutive to existing shareholders. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock and can influence stockholder decisions. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 19% of our fully diluted outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers will have the ability, if they voted their shares in concert, to influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. We face intense competition in all of our markets. The financial services industry, including commercial banking, mortgage banking, consumer lending, and home equity lending, is highly competitive, and we encounter strong competition for deposits, loans, and other financial services in all of our market areas in each of our lines of business. Our principal competitors include other commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mutual funds, money market funds, finance companies, trust companies, insurers, credit unions, and mortgage companies. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation as us and have advantages over us in providing certain services. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have greater access to capital and other resources. Also, our ability to compete effectively in our business depends on our ability to adapt successfully to regulatory and technological changes within the banking and financial services industry generally. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share and our income from loans and other products may diminish. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • the ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service and high ethical standards; • the scope, relevance, and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; • the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; • customer satisfaction with our level of service; and • industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Negative publicity about financial institutions, generally, or about the Company or Bank, specifically, could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely impact its business operations and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from the actual or alleged conduct of financial institutions, generally, or the Company or Bank, specifically, in any number of activities, including leasing practices, corporate governance, and actions taken by government regulators in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action, any of which could negatively affect our business operations or financial results. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. As a bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve Board”). Our subsidiary bank is primarily regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”), the State Department of Banking and Finance, and the Office of Thrift Supervision. Our compliance with Federal Reserve Board, FDIC, and Department of Banking and Finance regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements of our regulators. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC that currently apply to us and the related exchange rules and regulations, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. Additional legislation or regulations, or amendments to current legislation or regulations, related to corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure may cause us to experience greater compliance costs. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) or other governmental actions may not stabilize the financial services industry. The EESA, which was signed into law on October 3, 2008, is intended to alleviate the financial crisis affecting the U.S. banking system. A number of programs are being developed and implemented under EESA. The EESA may not have the intended effect, however, and as a result, the condition of the financial services industry could decline instead of improve. The failure of the EESA to improve the condition of the U.S. banking system could significantly adversely affect our access to funding or capital, the trading price of our stock, and other elements of our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition to EESA, a variety of legislative, regulatory, and other proposals have been discussed or may be introduced in an effort to address the financial crisis. Depending on the scope of such proposals, if they are adopted and applied to the Company, our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could, directly or indirectly, benefit or be adversely affected in a manner that could be material to our business. Changes in monetary policies may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. 23 Table of Contents Confidential customer information transmitted through the Bank’s online banking service is vulnerable to security breaches and computer viruses, which could expose the Bank to litigation and adversely affect its reputation and ability to generate deposits. The Bank provides its customers with the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of online banking. The Bank’s network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, and other security problems. The Bank may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that the Bank’s activities or the activities of its clients involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose the Bank to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing clients to lose confidence in the Bank’s systems and could adversely affect its reputation and its ability to generate deposits. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 25 Table of Contents 