ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements appearing just before our Description of Business section above. Business and Financial Risks Based on our lack of significant revenue since inception and recurring losses from operations, our auditors have included an explanatory paragraph in their opinion as to the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Due to, among other factors, our history of losses and limited revenue, our independent auditors have included an explanatory paragraph in their opinion for the year ended December 31, 2012 as to the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which contemplate that we will continue to operate as a going concern. Our financial statements do not contain any adjustments that might result if we are unable to continue as a going concern. Since our formation, we have historically generated minimal revenue and have sustained substantial operating losses. As of December 31, 2012, we had a working deficit of approximately $1,447,000 and an accumulated deficit of approximately $52,288,000. Since our inception, we have focused almost exclusively on developing our core technologies and, until the fourth quarter of 2004 had not generated any significant revenue. In 2009, we sold our Law Enforcement division, losing the benefit of significant recurring revenue streams. In order to increase revenue, we have developed a direct sales force and anticipate the need to retain additional sales, marketing and technical support personnel and may need to incur substantial expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure these necessary resources, that a significant market for our technologies will develop or that we will be able to achieve our targeted revenue. Our biometric technology has yet to gain widespread market acceptance and we do not know how large of a market will develop for our technology. Biometric technology has received only limited market acceptance, particularly in the private sector. Our technology represents a novel security solution and we have not yet generated significant sales. Although recent security concerns relating to identification of individuals has increased interest in biometrics generally, it remains an undeveloped, evolving market. Biometric based solutions compete with more traditional security methods including keys, cards, personal identification numbers and security personnel. Acceptance of biometrics as an alternative to such traditional methods depends upon a number of factors including: · the reliability of biometric solutions · public perception regarding privacy concerns · costs involved in adopting and integrating biometric solutions For these reasons, we are uncertain whether our biometric technology will gain widespread acceptance in any commercial markets or that demand will be sufficient to create a market large enough to produce significant revenue or earnings. Our future success depends, in part, upon business customers adopting biometrics generally, and our solution specifically. Biometric technology is a new approach to Internet security which must be accepted in order for our WEB-key ® solution to generate significant revenue. Our WEB-key ® authentication initiative represents a new approach to Internet security which has been adopted on a limited basis by companies which distribute goods, content or software applications over the Internet. The implementation of our WEB-key ® solution requires the distribution and use of a finger scanning device and integration of database and server side software. Although we believe our solutions provide a higher level of security for information transmitted over the Internet than existing traditional methods, unless business and consumer markets embrace the use of a scanning device and believe the benefits of increased accuracy outweigh implementation costs, our solution will not gain market acceptance. 6 Our software products may contain defects which will make it more difficult for us to establish and maintain customers. Although we have completed the development of our core biometric technology, it has only been used by a limited number of business customers. Despite extensive testing during development, our software may contain undetected design faults and software errors, or “bugs” that are discovered only after it has been installed and used by a greater number of customers. Any such defect or error in new or existing software or applications could cause delays in delivering our technology or require design modifications. These could adversely affect our competitive position and cause us to lose potential customers or opportunities. Since our technologies are intended to be utilized to secure physical and electronic access, the effect of any such bugs or delays will likely have a detrimental impact on us. In addition, given that biometric technology generally, and our biometric technology specifically, has yet to gain widespread acceptance in the market, any delays would likely have a more detrimental impact on our business than if we were a more established company. While we have commenced a significant sales and marketing effort, we have only begun to develop a significant distribution channel and may not have the resources or ability to sustain these efforts or generate any meaningful sales. In order to generate revenue from our biometric products, we are dependent upon independent original equipment manufacturers, system integrators and application developers, which we do not control. As a result, it may be more difficult to generate sales. We market our technology through licensing arrangements with: · Original equipment manufacturers, system integrators and application developers which develop and market products and applications which can then be sold to end users · Companies which distribute goods, services or software applications over the Internet As a technology licensing company, our success will depend upon the ability of these manufacturers and developers to effectively integrate our technology into products and services which they market and sell. We have no control over these licensees and cannot assure you that they have the financial, marketing or technical resources to successfully develop and distribute products or applications acceptable to end users or generate any meaningful revenue for us. These third parties may also offer the products of our competitors to end users. We face intense competition and may not have the financial and human resources necessary to keep up with rapid technological changes, which may result in our technology becoming obsolete. The Internet, facility access control and information security markets are subject to rapid technological change and intense competition. We compete with both established biometric companies and a significant number of startup enterprises as well as providers of more traditional methods of access control. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we do and may independently develop superior technologies, which may result in our technology becoming less competitive or obsolete. We may not be able to keep pace with this change. If we are unable to develop new applications or enhance our existing technology in a timely manner in response to technological changes, we will be unable to compete in our chosen markets. In addition, if one or more other biometric technologies such as voice, face, iris, hand geometry or blood vessel recognition are widely adopted, it would significantly reduce the potential market for our fingerprint identification technology. We depend on key employees and members of our management team, including our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, in order to achieve our goals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain or attract such persons. Our consulting contract with Thomas J. Colatosti, our Chairman of the Board, expired in December 2011. Mr. Colatosti continues, however, to assist the Company in the areas of strategic planning and corporate finance. In addition, our employment contract with Michael W. DePasquale, our Chief Executive Officer, expires in March each year, and renews automatically for successive one year periods unless notice of non-renewal is provided by the Company. Although the contract does not prevent him from resigning, it does contain confidentiality and non-compete clauses which are intended to prevent him from working for a competitor within one year after leaving our Company. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain employees with expertise in developing, marketing and selling software solutions. In order to successfully market our technology, we will need to retain additional engineering, technical support and marketing personnel. The market for such persons remains highly competitive and our limited financial resources will make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified persons. 7 We cannot assure you that the intellectual property protection for our core technology provides a sustainable competitive advantage or barrier to entry against our competitors. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part upon proprietary rights to our technology. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets and technical measures to protect our propriety rights. We have filed a patent application relating to both the optic technology and biometrics solution components of our technology wherein several claims have been allowed. Over the last few years, the U.S. Patent Office has issued us a series of patents for our Vector Segment fingerprint technology (VST), and our other core biometric analysis and identification technologies. We cannot assure you that any additional patents will be issued or that we will have the resources to protect any patent from infringement. Although we believe our technology does not currently infringe upon patents held by others, we cannot assure you that such infringements do not exist or will not exist in the future. We may need to obtain additional financing to execute our business plan, which may not be available. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate significant revenue, we may not be able to continue operations. Since our inception, we have not generated significant, recurring revenue (other than revenue from acquired businesses) and have experienced substantial losses. In February 2013, we raised additional capital of approximately $500,000 from certain private and institutional investors and $925,000 from affiliates of InterDigital through a combination of debt, equity and research and development funding. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue to meet our goals, we will need to obtain additional third-party financing to (i) conduct the sales, marketing and technical support necessary to execute our plan to substantially grow operations, increase revenue and serve a significant customer base; and (ii) provide working capital. Therefore, we may need to obtain additional financing through the issuance of debt or equity securities, or to restructure our financial position through similar transactions to those consummated during the 2010 to 2011 period. We cannot assure you that we will ever be able to secure any such additional financing on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain such financing, we may not be able to execute our business plan or continue operations. We may not achieve sustainable profitability with respect to the biometric component of our business if we are unable to maintain, improve and develop the wireless data services we offer. We believe that our future business prospects depend in part on our ability to maintain and improve our current services and to develop new ones on a timely basis. Our services will have to achieve market acceptance, maintain technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer requirements. As a result of the complexities inherent in our service offerings, major new wireless data services and service enhancements require long development and testing periods. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of new services and service enhancements. Additionally, our new services and service enhancements may not achieve market acceptance. If we cannot effectively develop and improve services we may not be able to recover our fixed costs or otherwise become profitable. If we fail to adequately manage our resources, it could have a severe negative impact on our financial results or stock price. We could be subject to fluctuations in technology spending by existing and potential customers. Accordingly, we will have to actively manage expenses in a rapidly changing economic environment. This could require reducing costs during economic downturns and selectively growing in periods of economic expansion. If we do not properly manage our resources in response to these conditions, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We granted a blanket security interest in all of our assets to the holders of our secured debt. If we are unable to make our required payments on such debt, or any other event of default occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, and the debt holders may foreclose on our assets. As part of our secured debt financing transactions, we granted to the holders of such secured debt a blanket security interest in all of our assets, including assets of our subsidiary. See the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this report. In the event we default in payment on such debt, or any other event of default occurs under the relevant financing documents, and the default is not cured, 100% of the outstanding principal amount of the secured notes, plus accrued interest and fees will accelerate and be due and payable in full. 8 The cash required to pay such accelerated amounts on the secured notes following an event of default would most likely come out of our working capital. As we rely on our working capital for our day to day operations, such a default could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition to such extent that we are forced to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operations. In addition, upon an event of default, the holders of the secured debt could foreclose on our assets or exercise any other remedies available to them. If our assets were foreclosed upon, we would most likely be forced to file for bankruptcy or cease operations; stockholders may not receive any proceeds from disposition of our assets and may lose their entire investment in our stock. Our obligations to the holder of our outstanding Secured Notes may adversely affect our ability to enter into potential significant transactions with other parties. We will need to obtain the consent of the holder of our Secured Notes before we can take certain actions, including the issuance of any loan or debt secured by the assets of the Company. Accordingly, unless we obtain such consent, we may not be able to enter into certain transactions. Risks Related To Our Common Stock We have issued a substantial number of securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock which could result in substantial dilution to the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 12,750,000 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance upon exercise or conversion of the following securities (at conversion prices applicable as at December 31, 2012): · 11,512,000 shares upon exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants; · 1,238,000 shares upon exercise of options available for future grant under our existing option plans; and The exercise or conversion of these securities will result in a significant increase in the number of outstanding shares and substantially dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Applicable SEC Rules governing the trading of “penny stocks” limits the trading and liquidity of our common stock, which may affect the trading price of our common stock. Our common stock currently trades on the OTC Bulletin Board. Since our common stock continues to trade below $5.00 per share, our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and is subject to SEC rules and regulations, which impose limitations upon the manner in which our shares can be publicly traded. These regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks. Under these regulations, certain brokers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers or certain accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination regarding such a purchaser and receive such purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. These regulations have the effect of limiting the trading activity of our common stock and reducing the liquidity of an investment in our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid a dividend on our common stock. We intend to retain earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our shares has from time to time fluctuated widely and in the future may be subject to similar fluctuations. The trading price may be affected by a number of factors including the risk factors set forth in this Report as well as our operating results, financial condition, announcements of innovations or new products by us or our competitors, general conditions in the biometrics and access control industries, and other events or factors. Although we believe that approximately 15 registered broker dealers currently make a market in our common stock, we cannot assure you that any of these firms will continue to serve as market makers or have the financial capability to stabilize or support our common stock. A reduction in the number of market makers or the financial capability of any of these market makers could also result in a decrease in the trading volume of and price of our shares. In recent years broad stock market indices, in general, and the securities of technology companies, in particular, have experienced substantial price fluctuations. Such broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the future-trading price of our common stock. 9 