ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward Looking Statements We caution that the following important factors, among others (including but not limited to factors discussed below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as those factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in our other reports filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission), could affect our actual results and could contribute to or cause our actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements. The factors included here are not exhaustive. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor can we assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Therefore, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual future results. 9 Table of Contents While we believe that the forward looking statements made in this report are based on reasonable assumptions, the actual outcome of such statements is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the failure of our markets to continue growing and expanding in the manner we anticipated; the failure of our customers to grow and expand as we anticipated; the effects of natural or other events beyond our control, including the effect a war or terrorist activities may have on us or the economy; the economic environment’s effect on us or our customers; the growth of, acceptance of and the demand for our products and technologies in various markets and geographical regions, including cable, satellite, consumer electronics, retail, digital media/technology, CEDIA, interactive TV, automotive, and cellular industries not materializing or growing as we believed; our inability to add profitable complementary products which are accepted by the marketplace; our inability to continue to maintain our operating costs at acceptable levels through our cost containment efforts; our inability to realize tax benefits from various tax projects initiated from time to time; our inability to maintain the strength of our balance sheet; our inability to continue selling our products or licensing our technologies at higher or profitable margins; our inability to obtain orders or maintain our order volume with new and existing customers; the possible dilutive effect our stock option program may have on our earnings per share and stock price; our inability to continue to obtain adequate quantities of component parts or secure adequate factory production capacity on a timely basis; and other factors listed from time to time in our press releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Dependence upon Key Suppliers Most of the components used in our products are available from multiple sources. However, we have elected to purchase integrated circuits, used principally in our wireless control products, from two main sources, Freescale and Samsung. During 2006, four sources, Computime, C.G. Development, Freescale and Jetta, each provided over ten percent (10%) of our total inventory purchases. Purchases from these suppliers collectively amounted to $82.6 million, or 60.9%, of total inventory purchases during 2006. Purchases with the same suppliers collectively amounted to $57.3 million and $41.6 million, representing 54.8% and 45.9%, of total inventory purchases in 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2004, we had an additional supplier who provided over 10% of our inventory purchases. This supplier provided $9.5 million or 10.5% of our total inventory purchases in 2004. We have identified alternative sources of supply for these integrated circuits, components, and finished goods; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain these inventory purchases on a timely basis. We generally maintain inventories of our integrated chips, which could be used in part to mitigate, but not eliminate, delays resulting from supply interruptions. An extended interruption, shortage or termination in the supply of any of the components used in our products, or a reduction in their quality or reliability, or a significant increase in prices of components, would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Dependence on Foreign Manufacturing Third-party manufacturers located in Asia manufacture a majority of our products. Our arrangements with our foreign manufacturers are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, such as tariffs, environmental and trade restrictions, intellectual property protection and enforcement, export license requirements, work stoppages, political and social instability, economic and labor conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and other factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that the loss of any one or more of our manufacturers would not have a long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows, because numerous other manufacturers are available to fulfill our requirements; however, the loss of any of our major manufacturers could adversely affect our business until alternative manufacturing arrangements are secured. Potential Fluctuations in Quarterly Results Historically, our business has been influenced by the retail sales cycle, with increased sales in the last half of the year and the largest proportion of sales occurring in the last quarter. Factors such as quarterly variations in financial results could have a material adverse affect on the volatility and market price of our common stock. 10 Table of Contents We may from time to time increase our operating expenses to fund greater levels of research and development, sales and marketing activities, development of new distribution channels, improvements in our operational and financial systems and development of our customer support capabilities, and to support our efforts to comply with various government regulations. To the extent such expenses precede or are not subsequently followed by increased revenues, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected. In addition, we may experience significant fluctuations in future quarterly operating results that may be caused by many other factors, including demand for our products, introduction or enhancement of products by us and our competitors, the loss or acquisition of any significant customers, market acceptance of new products, price reductions by us or our competitors, mix of distribution channels through which our products are sold, product or supply constraints, level of product returns, mix of customers and products sold, component pricing, mix of international and domestic revenues, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and general economic conditions. In addition, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing or marketing decisions or acquisitions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. As a result, we believe period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in some future quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens the price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected. Dependence on Consumer Preference We are susceptible to fluctuations in our business based upon consumer demand for our products. In addition, we cannot guarantee that increases in demand for our products associated with increases in the deployment of new technology will continue. We believe that our success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to fluctuations in consumer preferences. However, it is impossible to predict with complete accuracy the occurrence and effect of fluctuations in consumer demand over a products life cycle. Moreover, we caution that any growth in revenues that we achieve may be transitory and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Demand for Consumer Service and Support We have continually provided domestic and international consumer service and support to our customers to add overall value and to help differentiate us from our competitors. We continually review our service and support group and are marketing our expertise in this area to other potential customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract new customers in the future. In addition, Our Kameleon® and Nevo® line of products have more features and are more complex than our older products and therefore require more end-user technical support. For our Nevo® product line, we currently rely on the distributor or dealers to provide the initial level of technical support to the end-users. We provide the second level of technical support for bug fixes and other issues at no additional charge. Therefore, as the mix of our products includes Nevo® and other more complex product lines, support costs could increase, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Dependence Upon Timely Product Introduction Our ability to remain competitive in the wireless control and audio/video accessory products market will depend considerably upon our ability to successfully identify new product opportunities, as well as developing and introducing these products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis. There can be no assurance that we will be successful at developing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products, or that these new or enhanced products will achieve consumer acceptance and, if achieved, will sustain that acceptance. In addition, there can be no assurance that products developed by others will not render our products non-competitive or obsolete or that we will be able to obtain or 11 Table of Contents maintain the rights to use proprietary technologies developed by others which are incorporated in our products. Any failure to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the introduction of new products may require significant expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing. In order to achieve high volume production of any new product, we may have to make substantial investments in inventory and expand our production capabilities. Dependence on Major Customers The economic strength and weakness of our worldwide customers affect our performance. We sell our wireless control products, audio/video accessory products, and proprietary technologies to private label customers, original equipment manufacturers, and companies involved in the subscription broadcasting industry. We also supply our products to our wholly owned, non-U.S. subsidiaries and to independent foreign distributors, who in turn distribute our products worldwide, with Europe, Asia, South Africa, Australia, and Argentina currently representing our principal foreign markets. In each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we had sales to one customer, Comcast, that amounted to more than 10% of our net sales for the year. In addition, in each of these years, we had sales to DirecTV and its sub-contractors, that when combined, exceeded 10% of our net sales. The loss of either of these customers or of any other key customer, either in the United States or abroad or our inability to maintain order volume with these customers, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Internal Investments We employ a small number of personnel to develop and market additional products that are part of the Nevo® platform as well as products that are based on the Zigbee, Z-Wave® and other radio frequency technology. Even after these hires, we continue to use outside resources to assist us in the development of these products. While we believe that such outside services should continue to be available to us, if they cease to be available, the development of these products could be substantially delayed. Competition The wireless control industry is characterized by intense competition based primarily on product availability, price, speed of delivery, ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality, and depth of product lines. Our competition is fragmented across our products, and, accordingly, we do not compete with any one company across all product lines. We compete with a variety of entities, some of which have greater financial resources. Our ability to remain competitive in this industry depends in part on our ability to successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and introduce new products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, as well as our ability to successfully identify and enter into strategic alliances with entities doing business within the industries we serve. There can be no assurance that our product offerings will be, and/or remain, competitive or that strategic alliances, if any, will achieve the type, extent, and amount of success or business that we expect them to achieve. The sales of our products and technology may not occur or grow in the manner we expect, and thus we may not recoup costs incurred in the research and development of these products as quickly as we expect, if at all. Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights The procedures by which we identify, document and file for patent, trademark, and copyright protection are based solely on engineering and management judgment, with no assurance that a specific filing will be issued, or if issued, will deliver any lasting value to us. Because of the rapid innovation of products and technologies that is characteristic of our industry, there is no assurance that rights granted under any patent will provide competitive advantages to us or will be adequate to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights. Moreover, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold may not offer protection on such products and associated intellectual property to the same extent that the U.S. legal system may offer. 12 Table of Contents In our opinion, our intellectual property holdings as well as our engineering, production, and marketing skills and the experience of our personnel are of equal importance to our market position. We further believe that none of our businesses are materially dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret. Some of our products include or use technology and/or components of third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of such products, we believe that, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms; however, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained on such terms or at all. Because of technological changes in the wireless and home control industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible certain components of our products and business methods may unknowingly infringe upon the patents of others. Potential for Litigation As is typical in our industry and for the nature and kind of business in which we are engaged, from time to time various claims, charges and litigation are asserted or commenced by third parties against us or by us against third parties, arising from or related to product liability, infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights, breach of warranty, contractual relations or employee relations. The amounts claimed may be substantial, but they may not bear any reasonable relationship to the merits of the claims or the extent of any real risk of court awards assessed against us or in our favor. Risks of Conducting Business Internationally Risks of doing business internationally could adversely affect our sales, operations, earnings and cash flows due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: • changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military conflicts; • currency fluctuations affecting sales, particularly in the Euro and British Pound, which contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions and also affect our reported results expressed in U.S. dollars; • currency fluctuations affecting costs, particularly the Euro, British Pound and the Chinese Yuan, which contribute to variances in costs in impacted jurisdictions and also affect our reported results expressed in U.S. dollars; • longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; • trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; • local labor conditions, customs, and regulations; • changes in the regulatory or legal environment; • differing technology standards or customer requirements; • import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements related to making foreign direct investments, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions; • difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; • fluctuations in freight costs and disruptions at important geographic points of exit and entry. 13 Table of Contents Effectiveness of Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to audit our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and separately report on whether it believes we maintain, in all material respects, effective internal controls over financial reporting. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal controls procedures in place, we cannot be certain that future material changes to our internal controls over financial reporting will be effective. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. Changes in Accounting Rules Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies, including the FASB and the SEC, who create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. A change from current accounting standards could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. Unanticipated Changes in Tax Provisions or Income Tax Liabilities We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory and other items in intercompany transactions. From time to time, we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges or other matters and assess additional taxes. We assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of the tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. Furthermore, our tax provisions could be adversely affected as a result of any new interpretative accounting guidance related to accounting for uncertain tax positions. General Economic Conditions General economic conditions, both domestic and international, have an impact on our business and financial results. The global economy remains uncertain. As a result, individuals and companies may delay or reduce expenditures. Weak global economic conditions and/or softness in the consumer, subscription broadcasting, and/or OEM channels could result in lower demand for our products, resulting in lower sales, earnings and cash flows. Environmental Matters Many of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in products, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. With the passage of the European Union’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, which makes producers of electrical goods responsible for collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of recovered products, similar restrictions in China effective March 2007 and the European Union’s Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, we could face significant costs and liabilities in complying with these and new laws and regulations or enforcement policies that could have a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or financial condition. Leased Property We lease all of the properties used in our business. We can give no assurance that we will enter into new or renewal leases, or that, if entered into, the new lease terms will be similar to the existing terms or that the terms of any such new or renewal leases will not have a significant and material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 14 Table of Contents Technology Changes in Wireless Control We currently derive substantial revenue from the sale of wireless remote controls based on infrared (“IR”) technology. Other control technologies exist or could be developed that could compete with IR. In addition, we develop and maintain our own database of IR and RF codes. There are several competing IR and RF libraries offered by companies that we compete with in the marketplace. The advantage that we may have compared to our competitors is difficult to measure. If other wireless control technology gains acceptance and starts to be integrated into home electronics devices currently controlled through our IR remote controllers, demand for our products may decrease, resulting in decreased revenue, earnings and cash flow. Failure to Recruit, Hire, and Retain Key Personnel Our ability to achieve growth in the future will depend, in part, on our success at recruiting, hiring, and retaining highly skilled engineering, managerial, operational, sales, and marketing personnel. In addition, our corporate office, including our advance technology engineering group, is based in Southern California. The high cost of living in Southern California makes it difficult to attract talent from outside the region and may also put pressure on overall employment related expense. Additionally, our competitors seek to recruit and hire the same key personnel. Therefore, if we fail to stay competitive in salary and benefits within the industry it may negatively impact our ability to hire and retain key personnel. The inability to recruit, hire, and retain qualified personnel in a timely manner, or the loss of any key personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions. Credit Facility We amended our Credit Facility in August 2006 by extending our credit facility for an additional three years. Presently, we have no borrowings under this facility; however, we cannot make any assurances that we will not need to borrow amounts under this facility or that this facility will continue to be extended and thus available to us if we need to borrow. If this or any other credit facility is not available to us at a time when we need to borrow, we would have to use our cash reserves which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flow and financial position. Change in Competition and Pricing We rely on third-party manufacturers to build our universal wireless control products, based on our extensive IR code library and patented technology. Price is always an issue in winning and retaining business. If customers become increasingly price sensitive, new competition could arise from manufacturers who decide to go into direct competition with us or from current competitors who perform their own manufacturing. If such a trend develops, we could experience downward pressure on our pricing or lose sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Transportation Costs; Impact of Oil Prices We ship products from our foreign manufacturers via ocean and air transport. It is sometimes difficult to forecast swings in demand or delays in production and, as a result, products may be shipped via air which is more costly than ocean shipments. Often, we typically cannot recover the increased cost of airfreight from our customers. Additionally, tariffs and other export fees may be incurred to ship products from foreign manufacturers to the customer. The inability to predict swings in demand or delays in production can increase the cost of freight which could have a material adverse effect on our product margins. In addition, we have an exposure to oil prices in two forms. The first is in the prices of the oil-based materials that we use in our products, which are primarily the plastics and other components that we include in our finished products. The second is in the cost of delivery and freight, which would be passed on by the carriers that we use in the form of higher rates. We record freight-in as a cost of sales, and freight-out in operating expenses. Rising oil prices may have an adverse effect on cost of sales and operating expenses. 15 Table of Contents Proprietary Technologies We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including hardware, firmware, and software. Firmware and software may contain bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with operations. There can be no assurance that our testing programs will detect all defects in individual products or defects that could affect numerous shipments. The presence of defects may harm customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or increase returns. An inability to cure or repair a product defect could result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, increased inventory costs, or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our revenues, margins and net income. Strategic Business Transactions We may, from time to time, pursue strategic alliances, joint ventures, business acquisitions, products or technologies (“strategic business transactions”) that complement or expand our existing operations, including those that could be material in size and scope. Strategic business transactions involve many risks, including the diversion of management’s attention away from day-to-day operations. There is also the risk that we will not be able to successfully integrate the strategic business transaction with our operations, personnel, customer base, products or technologies. Such strategic business transactions could also have adverse short-term effects on our operating results, and could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, and the loss of key employees. In addition, these strategic business transactions are generally subject to specific accounting guidelines that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. For instance, business acquisitions must be accounted for as purchases and, because most technology-related acquisitions involve the purchase of significant intangible assets, these acquisitions typically result in substantial amortization charges and charges for acquired research and development projects, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that any such strategic business transactions will occur or, if such transactions do occur, that the integration will be successful or that the customer bases, products or technologies will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or effects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved staff comments as of the date of filing this Form 10-K. 