Item 1a. Risk Factors Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Expenses PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES Throughout this document we make statements that are classified as “forward-looking.” Please refer to the “Forward-Looking Statements” included later in this section for an explanation of these types of assertions. Also, in this document, unless the context requires otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our,” “MarkWest Hydrocarbon” or the “Company” are intended to mean MarkWest Hydrocarbon, Inc., and its consolidated subsidiaries. “MarkWest Energy” or “MarkWest Energy Partners” or the “Partnership” are intended to mean MarkWest Energy Partners, L.P. Glossary of Terms In addition, the following is a list of certain acronyms and terms used throughout the document: Bbls Barrels Bbl/d barrels per day Bcf one billion cubic feet of natural gas Btu one British thermal unit, an energy measurement Gal/d gallons per day Mcf one thousand cubic feet of natural gas Mcf/d one thousand cubic feet of natural gas per day MMBtu one million British thermal units, an energy measurement MMcf one million cubic feet of natural gas MMcf/d one million cubic feet of natural gas per day MTBE methyl tertiary butyl ether Net operating margin (a non-GAAP financial measure) revenues less purchased product costs NGLs natural gas liquids, such as propane, butanes and natural gasoline NA not applicable Tcf one trillion cubic feet of natural gas 2 Forward-Looking Statements Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We use words such as “may,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “project,” “anticipate,” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made based upon management’s expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements relating to, among other things: • Our expectations regarding MarkWest Energy Partners, L.P. • Our ability to grow MarkWest Energy Partners, L.P. • Our ability to amend certain producer contracts. • Our expectations regarding natural gas, NGLs product and prices. • Our efforts to increase fee-based contract volumes. • Our ability to manage our commodity price risk. • Our ability to maximize the value of our NGL output. • The adequacy of our general public liability, property, and business interruption insurance. • Our ability to comply with environmental and governmental regulations. Important factors that could cause our actual results of operations or our actual financial condition to differ include, but are not necessarily limited to: • The availability of raw natural gas supply for our gathering and processing services. • The availability of NGLs for our transportation, fractionation and storage services. • Prices of NGL products and natural gas, including the effectiveness of any hedging activities. • Our ability to negotiate favorable marketing agreements. • The risks that third party natural gas exploration and production activities will not occur or be successful. • Our dependence on certain significant customers, producers, gatherers, treaters and transporters of natural gas. • Competition from other NGL processors, including major energy companies. • Our dependence on certain significant customers, producers, gatherers, treaters and transporters of natural gas. • Our substantial debt and other financial obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. • Our ability to successfully integrate our recent or future acquisitions. • Our ability to identify and complete organic growth projects or acquisitions complementary to our business. • Damage to facilities and interruption of service due to casualty, weather, mechanical failure or any extended or extraordinary maintenance or inspection that may be required. • Changes in general economic conditions in regions in which our products are located. • The threat of terrorist attacks or war. • Winter weather conditions. This list is not necessarily complete. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results. The Company does not update publicly any forward-looking statement with new information or future events. Investors are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements as many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. You should read “Risk Factors” included in Item 1A of this Form 10-K for further information. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General MarkWest Hydrocarbon was founded in 1988 as a partnership and later incorporated in Delaware. We completed our initial public offering of common shares in 1996. MarkWest Hydrocarbon is an energy company primarily focused on marketing natural gas liquids (NGLs) and increasing shareholder value by growing MarkWest Energy Partners, L.P. (“MarkWest Energy” or “MarkWest Energy Partners” or “The Partnership”), our consolidated subsidiary and a publicly-traded master limited partnership. MarkWest Energy Partners is engaged in the gathering, processing and transmission of natural gas; the transportation, fractionation and storage of natural gas liquids; and the gathering and transportation of crude oil. The Company discontinued its exploration and production activities in 2003. MarkWest Hydrocarbon’s assets consist primarily of partnership interests in MarkWest Energy Partners and certain processing agreements in Appalachia. As of December 31, 2005, the Company owned a 21% interest in the Partnership, consisting of the following: • 1,633,334 subordinated units and 836,162 common units, representing a 19% limited partner interest in the Partnership; and • an 89% ownership interest in MarkWest Energy GP, L.L.C., the general partner of the Partnership, which in turn owns a 2% general partner interest and all of the incentive distribution rights in the Partnership. Industry Overview, Competition MarkWest Energy Partners provides services in most areas of the natural gas gathering, processing and fractionation industry. The following diagram illustrates the typical natural gas gathering, processing and fractionation process: The natural gas gathering process begins with the drilling of wells into gas-bearing rock formations. Once completed, the well is connected to a gathering system. Gathering systems typically consist of a network of small diameter pipelines and, if necessary, compression systems, that collect natural gas from points near producing wells, and transport it to larger pipelines for further transmission. Natural gas has a widely varying composition, depending on the field, the formation reservoir or facility from which it is produced. The principal constituents of natural gas are methane and ethane. Most natural gas also contains varying amounts of heavier components, such as propane, butane, natural gasoline and inert substances that may be removed by any number of processing methods. Most natural gas produced at the wellhead is not suitable for long-haul pipeline transportation or commercial use. It must be gathered, compressed and transported via pipeline to a central facility, and then processed to remove the heavier hydrocarbon components and other contaminants that interfere with pipeline transportation or the end-use of the gas. Our business includes providing these services either for a fee or a percentage of the NGLs removed or gas units processed. The industry as a whole is characterized by regional competition, based on the proximity of gathering systems and processing plants to producing natural gas wells. 4 MarkWest Energy also provides processing and fractionation services to crude oil refineries in the Corpus Christi, Texas, area through its Javelina Gas Processing and Fractionation facility. While similar to the natural gas industry diagram outlined above, the following diagram illustrates the significant gas processing and fractionation processes at the Javelina Facility: Natural gas processing and treating involves the separation of raw natural gas into pipeline-quality or fuel quality natural gas, principally methane, and NGLs, as well as the removal of contaminants. Raw natural gas from the wellhead is gathered at a processing plant, typically located near the production area, where it is dehydrated and treated, and then processed to recover a mixed NGL stream. In the case of our Javelina facilities, the natural gas delivered to our processing plant is a byproduct of the crude oil refining process. The removal and separation of individual hydrocarbons by processing is possible because of differences in physical properties. Each component has a distinctive weight, boiling point, vapor pressure and other physical characteristics. Natural gas may also be diluted or contaminated by water, sulfur compounds, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, helium or other components. At the Javelina facility, MarkWest also produces a height quality hydrogen stream that is delivered back to certain refinery customers. After being separated from natural gas at the processing plant, the mixed NGL stream is typically transported to a centralized facility for fractionation. Fractionation is the process by which NGLs are further separated into individual, more marketable components, primarily ethane, propane, normal butane, isobutane and natural gasoline. Fractionation systems typically exist either as an integral part of a gas processing plant or as a “central fractionator,” often located many miles from the primary production and processing facility. A central fractionator may receive mixed streams of NGLs from many processing plants. Described below are the five basic NGL products and three other products, and their typical uses: • Ethane is used primarily as feedstock in the production of ethylene, one of the basic building blocks for a wide range of plastics and other chemical products. Ethane is not produced at our Siloam fractionator, as there is little petrochemical demand for ethane in Appalachia. It remains, therefore, in the natural gas stream. Ethane, however, is produced and sold in our East Texas and Oklahoma operations. • Propane is used for heating, engine and industrial fuels, agricultural burning and drying, and as a petrochemical feedstock for the production of ethylene and propylene. Propane is principally used as a fuel in our operating areas. • Normal butane is principally used for gasoline blending, as a fuel gas, either alone or in a mixture with propane, and as a feedstock for the manufacture of ethylene and butadiene, a key ingredient of synthetic rubber. • Isobutane is principally used by refiners to enhance the octane content of motor gasoline, as well as in the production of MTBE, an additive in cleaner-burning motor gasoline. • Natural gasoline is principally used as a motor gasoline blend stock or petrochemical feedstock. • Ethylene and propylene are principally used as petrochemical feedstocks. • Hydrogen is principally used in the refining process to assist in the production of low sulfur products. 5 MarkWest Hydrocarbon faces competition for marketing NGL products and purchasing natural gas supplies. Competition for customers and purchases of natural gas are based primarily on price, delivery capabilities, flexibility and maintenance of quality customer relationships. The Company’s competitors are similar to those of MarkWest Energy Partners (described below). The Partnership faces competition for natural gas and crude oil transportation; in obtaining natural gas supplies for our processing and related services operations; in obtaining unprocessed NGLs for fractionation; and in marketing our products and services. Competition for natural gas supplies is based primarily on the location of gas-gathering facilities and gas-processing plants, operating efficiency and reliability, and the ability to obtain a satisfactory price for products recovered. Competitive factors affecting the Partnership’s fractionation services include availability of capacity, proximity to supply and industry marketing centers, cost efficiency and reliability of service, and, in the case of Javelina, the value of the recovered products compared to their equivalent value when consumed at the refineries as fuel. Competition for customers is based primarily on price, delivery capabilities, flexibility, and maintenance of quality customer relationships. The Partnership’s competitors include: • other large natural gas gatherers that gather, process and market natural gas and NGLs; • major integrated oil companies; • medium and large sized independent exploration and production companies; • major interstate and intrastate pipelines; and • a large number of smaller gas gatherers of varying financial resources and experience. We believe the Partnership’s competitive strengths include: • Location and efficiency of facilities. In many locations, the Partnership’s facilities were installed more recently and are more efficient than those of its competitors. This provides the Partnership with a significant competitive advantage over its competitors. In other locations, there are no other viable facilities to provide similar services as the Partnership provides. • Long-term contracts. We believe MarkWest Energy Partners’ long-term contracts, which we define as contracts with remaining terms of four years or more, lend greater stability to its cash-flow profile. • Experienced management with operational, technical and acquisition expertise. Each member of our executive management team has substantial experience in the energy industry. Our facility managers have extensive experience operating our facilities. Our operational and technical expertise has enabled us to upgrade our existing facilities, as well as to design and build new ones. Since the Partnership’s initial public offering in May 2002, our management team has utilized a disciplined approach to analyze and evaluate numerous acquisition opportunities, and has completed eight acquisitions. We intend to continue to use our management’s experience and disciplined approach in evaluating and acquiring assets to grow through accretive acquisitions – those acquisitions expected to increase our throughput volumes and cash flow distributable to our unitholders. To better understand our business and results of operations discussed in Item 6, “Selected Financial Data” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation,” it is important to have an understanding of three factors: • The nature of our relationship with MarkWest Energy Partners; • The nature of the contracts from which we derive our revenues and from which MarkWest Energy Partners derives its revenues; and • The lack of comparability within our results of operations across periods because of MarkWest Energy Partners’ significant acquisition activity. Our Relationship with MarkWest Energy Partners We spun off the majority of our then-existing natural gas gathering and processing and NGL transportation, fractionation and storage assets into MarkWest Energy Partners in May 2002, just before the Partnership completed its initial public offering. At the time of its formation and initial public offering, we entered into four contracts with MarkWest Energy 6 Partners whereby MarkWest Energy Partners provides midstream services in Appalachia to us for a fee. Additionally, MarkWest Energy Partners receives 100% of all fee and percent-of-proceeds consideration for the first 10 MMcf/d that it gathers and processes in Michigan. MarkWest Hydrocarbon retains a 70% net profits interest in the gathering and processing income earned on quarterly pipeline throughput in excess of 10 MMcf/d. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, MarkWest Energy Partners’ financial results are included in our consolidated financial statements. All intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated during consolidation. As a result of the contracts mentioned above, the Company is one of the Partnership’s largest customers. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we accounted for 13% of the Partnership’s revenues and 20% of its net operating margin. This represents a decrease from the year ended December 31, 2004, when we accounted for 20% of the Partnership’s revenues and 32% of its net operating margin. We expect we will continue to account for less of the Partnership’s business in the future as it continues to acquire assets and increase its customer base or diversify its business. We control and operate MarkWest Energy Partners through our majority ownership in the Partnership’s general partner. Our employees are responsible for conducting the Partnership’s business and operating its assets pursuant to a Services Agreement, which was formalized and made effective January 1, 2004. MarkWest Hydrocarbon Contracts Excluding the revenues derived from MarkWest Energy Partners, we generate the majority of our revenues and net operating margin (net operating margin is discussed further, below) from the Appalachia processing agreements. We outsource these services to the Partnership and pay the Partnership a fee for providing processing and fractionation services. As compensation for providing processing services to our Appalachian producers, we earn a fee and receive title to the NGLs produced. In return, we are required to replace, in dry natural gas, the Btu value of the NGLs extracted. This Btu replacement obligation is referred to in the industry as a “keep-whole” arrangement. In keep-whole arrangements, our principal cost is purchasing and delivering dry gas of an equivalent Btu content to replace Btus extracted from the gas stream in the form of NGLs, or consumed as fuel during processing. The spread between the NGL product sales price and the purchase price of natural gas with an equivalent Btu content is called the “frac spread.” Generally, the frac spread is positive and offsets all or a portion of the fees that we pay the Partnership. In the event natural gas becomes more expensive on a Btu equivalent basis than NGL products and the associated fees that we pay the Partnership, the net operating margin associated with the Appalachian processing agreements results in operating losses. In Appalachia, we have entered into operating agreements with a customer with respect to natural gas delivered into its transmission facilities, upstream of MarkWest Energy’s Kenova, Boldman and Cobb facilities. Under the terms of these operating agreements, the customer has agreed to use reasonable, diligent efforts to supply these facilities with consistent volumes of natural gas shipped by the customer, on behalf of the Appalachian producers. The initial terms of our agreements with this customer run through December 31, 2015, with annual renewals thereafter. In September 2004, we entered into several new and amended agreements, expiring December 31, 2009, with one of the largest Appalachia producers, which allow us to significantly reduce our exposure to commodity price risk, for approximately 25% of our keep-whole gas volumes. Under these agreements, the Company’s exposure to the keep-whole natural gas is limited in the event natural gas becomes more expensive than the NGL product sales price, thereby mitigating the risk of incurring operating losses. At the closing of MarkWest Energy Partners’ initial public offering on May 24, 2002, we outsourced our midstream services to the Partnership. Pursuant to the terms of the operating agreements, we retained all the benefits and associated risks of our keep-whole contracts with producers. Our NGL marketing and natural gas supply operations were retained by us and not contributed to MarkWest Energy Partners. Our keep-whole contracts expose us to commodity price risk, both on the sales side (of NGLs) and on the purchase side (of natural gas), which, in turn, may increase the volatility of our standalone results and cash flows. We attempt to mitigate our commodity price risk through our commodity price risk management program (see Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for further details about our commodity price risk management program). 7 MarkWest Energy Partners’ Contracts The Partnership generates the majority of its revenues and net operating margin (defined as revenues less purchased product costs – see explanation of net operating margin below) from natural gas gathering, processing and transmission; NGL transportation, fractionation and storage; crude oil gathering and transportation; and refinery off-gas processing. It has a variety of contract types. In many cases, the Partnership provides services under contracts that contain a combination of more than one of the arrangements described below. • Fee-based arrangements. The Partnership receives fees for gathering, processing and transmission of natural gas; transportation, fractionation and storage of NGLs; and gathering and transportation of crude oil. The revenue it earns from these arrangements is directly related to the volume of natural gas, NGLs or crude oil that flows through its systems and facilities, and is not directly dependent on commodity prices. In certain cases, these arrangements provide for minimum annual payments. If a sustained decline in commodity prices resulted in a decline in volumes, our revenues from these arrangements would be reduced. • Percent-of-proceeds arrangements. The Partnership generally gathers and processes natural gas on behalf of producers, sells the resulting residue gas and NGLs at market prices, and remits to producers an agreed-upon percentage of the proceeds based on an index price. In other cases, instead of remitting cash payments to the producer, the Partnership delivers an agreed-upon percentage of the residue gas and NGLs to the producer, and sells the volumes it keeps to third parties at market prices. Under these types of arrangements, its revenues and net operating margins generally increase as natural gas prices and NGL prices increase, and its revenues and net operating margins decrease as natural gas and NGL prices decrease. The most common arrangement is a percent of liquids or POL contract. • Percent-of-index arrangements. The Partnership generally purchases natural gas at either (1) a percentage discount to a specified index price, (2) a specified index price less a fixed amount, or (3) a percentage discount to a specified index price less an additional fixed amount. It then gathers and delivers the natural gas to pipelines, where it resells the natural gas at the index price, or at a different percentage discount to the index price. The net operating margins the Partnership realizes under these arrangements decrease in periods of low natural gas prices, because these net operating margins are based on a percentage of the index price. Conversely, our net operating margins increase during periods of high natural gas prices. • Keep-whole arrangements. The Partnership gathers natural gas from the producer, processes the natural gas, and sells the resulting NGLs to third parties at market prices. Because the extraction of the NGLs from the natural gas during processing reduces the Btu content of the natural gas, the Partnership must either purchase natural gas at market prices for return to producers, or make cash payment to the producers equal to the energy content of this natural gas. Accordingly, under these arrangements, its revenues and net operating margins increase as the price of NGLs increases relative to the price of natural gas, and decreases as the price of natural gas increases relative to the price of NGLs. • Settlement margin. Typically, the terms of the Partnership’s gathering arrangements specify that it is allowed to retain a fixed percentage of the volume gathered to cover the compression fuel charges and deemed line losses. To the extent the gathering system is operated more efficiently than specified per contract allowance, the Partnership is entitled to retain the difference for its own account. In its current areas of operations, MarkWest Energy Partners utilizes a combination of contract types. In many cases, the Partnership provides services under contracts that contain a combination of more than one of the arrangements described above. The terms of MarkWest Energy Partners’ contracts vary based on gas quality, the competitive environment at the time the contracts are signed and customer requirements. The Partnership’s contract mix and, accordingly, its exposure to natural gas and NGL prices, may change due to changes in producer preferences, the Partnership’s expansion in regions where some types of contracts are more common, and other market factors. Any change in the contract portfolio will influence its financial results. Management evaluates contract performance on the basis of net operating margin (a “non-GAAP” financial measure), which is defined as income (loss) from operations, excluding facility expenses, selling, general and administrative expense, depreciation, amortization, impairments and accretion of asset retirement obligations. These charges have been excluded for the purpose of enhancing the understanding, by both management and investors, of the underlying baseline operating performance of our contractual arrangements, which management uses to evaluate our financial performance, for purposes of planning and forecasting future periods. Net operating margin does not have any standardized definition and, 8 therefore, is unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by other reporting companies. Net operating margin results should not be evaluated in isolation of, or as a substitute for, our financial results prepared in accordance with United States GAAP. Our usage of net operating margin, and the underlying methodology in excluding certain charges, is not necessarily an indication of the results of operations that may be expected in the future, or that we will not, in fact, incur such charges in future periods. The following reconciles this non-GAAP financial measure to income from operations, the most comparable GAAP financial measure (in thousands): December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Revenues $ 714,177 $ 460,113 209,268 Purchased product costs 583,084 363,261 187,544 Net operating margin 131,093 96,852 21,724 Facility expenses 45,577 28,580 20,957 Selling, general and administrative expenses 33,350 28,132 15,865 Depreciation 20,829 16,895 8,795 Amortization of intangible assets 9,656 3,640 — Accretion of asset retirement obligation 160 15 — Impairments — 130 2,187 Income from operations $ 21,521 $ 19,460 (26,080 ) For the year ended December 31, 2005, the following table summarizes the percentages of revenue and net operating margin we generated by types of contracts, exclusive of the impact of commodity derivatives: Fee-Based (1) Percent-of-Proceeds (2) Percent-of-Index (3) Keep-Whole (4) Total Revenues 23 % 3 % 24 % 50 % 100 % Net operating margin 35 % 15 % 29 % 21 % 100 % (1) Includes gas marketing and NGL wholesale revenues. (2) Includes other types of arrangements tied to NGL prices. (3) Includes settlement margin, condensate sales and other types of arrangementes tied to natural gas prices. (4) Includes settlement margin, condensate sales and other types of arrangements tied to both NGL and natural gas prices. Items Affecting Comparability of Financial Results In reading the discussion of our historical results of operations, you should be aware of the impact of MarkWest Energy Partners’ recent significant acquisitions, which influence the comparability of our results of operations for the periods discussed. MarkWest Energy Partners’ Recent Acquisitions Since its initial public offering, the Partnership has completed eight acquisitions for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $794.4 million, net of working capital. The following table sets forth information regarding each of these acquisitions: 9 Name Assets Location Consideration (in millions) Closing Date Javelina Gas processing and fractionation facility Corpus Christi, TX $ 398.3 November 1, 2005 Starfish (1) Natural gas pipeline, gathering system and dehydration facility Gulf of Mexico/Southern Louisiana $ 41.7 March 31, 2005 East Texas Gathering system and gas procession assets East Texas $ 240.7 July 30, 2004 Hobbs Natural gas pipeline New Mexico $ 2.3 April 1, 2004 Michigan Crude Pipeline Common carrier crude oil pipeline Michigan $ 21.3 December 18, 2003 Western Oklahoma Gathering system Western Oklahoma $ 38.0 December 1, 2003 Lubbock Pipeline Natural gas pipeline West Texas $ 12.2 September 2, 2003 Pinnacle Natural gas pipelines and gathering systems East Texas $ 39.9 March 28, 2003 (1) Represents a 50%, non-controlling interest. Segment Reporting Segments. We have two segments: MarkWest Hydrocarbon Standalone and MarkWest Energy Partners. For further information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Our Contracts,” included in Item 7 of this Form 10-K, and “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. MarkWest Hydrocarbon Standalone Our marketing group markets our NGL production in Appalachia. In 2005, we sold approximately 157 million gallons of NGLs extracted at the Partnership’s Siloam facility. We ship NGL products from Siloam by truck, rail and barge. Our marketing customers include propane retailers, refineries, petrochemical plants and NGL product resellers. Most marketing sales contracts have terms of one year or less, are made on best-efforts basis and are priced in reference to Mt. Belvieu index prices or plant posting prices. In addition to our NGL product sales, our marketing operations are also responsible for the purchase of natural gas delivered for the account of producers, pursuant to our keep-whole processing contracts. Also, we operate a wholesale propane marketing business. We strive to maximize the value of our NGL output by marketing directly to our customers. We minimize the use of third-party brokers, preferring instead to support a direct marketing staff focused on multi-state and independent dealers. Additionally, we use our own trailer and railcar fleet, as well as our own terminal, and owned and leased storage facilities, to enhance supply reliability to our customers. These efforts have allowed us to generally maintain premium pricing for the majority of our NGL products. compared to Gulf Coast spot prices. In Appalachia, we have entered into operating agreements with one specific customer with respect to natural gas delivered into its transmission facilities, upstream of MarkWest Energy’s Kenova, Boldman and Cobb facilities. Under the terms of these operating agreements, this customer has agreed to use reasonable, diligent efforts to supply these facilities with consistent volumes of natural gas shipped by this customer, on behalf of the Appalachian producers. The initial terms of our agreements with this customer run through December 31, 2015, with annual renewals thereafter. Consistent with the Partnership’s operating agreements with this same customer, the Partnership enters into contracts with the natural gas producers for their production to be processed in the Partnership’s Kenova, Boldman and Cobb facilities, before delivery of the producer’s natural gas to the customer’s transmission facilities. We have contractual commitments with approximately 260 such producers in Appalachia. Approximately 54% of these contracts, representing approximately 27% of the committed volumes, expire in 2009. The other 46% of the contracts, representing approximately 73% of the committed volumes, expires in 2015. Under the provisions of our contracts with the Appalachian producers, the producers have 10 committed all of the natural gas they deliver into the customer’s transmission facilities upstream of MarkWest Energy’s Kenova, Boldman and Cobb facilities for processing. As compensation for providing processing services to our Appalachian producers (we have since outsourced these services to MarkWest Energy as discussed below), we earn both a fee and retain the NGLs produced under keep-whole agreements. In return, we are required to replace, in dry natural gas, the energy content of the NGLs extracted. In September 2004, we entered into several new and amended agreements, expiring December 31, 2009, with one of the largest Appalachia producers, which allow us to significantly reduce our exposure to commodity price risk, for approximately 25% of our keep-whole gas volumes. Under these agreements, we purchase natural gas from the producer based on the value of the NGLs that we sell, thereby mitigating the risk of incurring operating losses. At the closing of MarkWest Energy’s initial public offering on May 24, 2002, we outsourced our midstream services to the Partnership, which performs natural gas gathering and processing and NGL transportation, fractionation and storage services for us for a fee pursuant to the terms of our operating agreements with the Partnership. Under those agreements, we retained all the benefits and associated risks of our keep-whole contracts with producers. Our NGL marketing and gas supply operations were not contributed to MarkWest Energy. Our keep-whole contracts expose us to commodity price risk, both on the sales side (of NGLs) and on the purchase side (of natural gas), which may make our marketing results and cash flows volatile. From time to time, we attempt to mitigate our commodity price risk through our hedging program. You should read Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” for further details about our commodity price risk management program. Beginning in February 2004, we initiated a wholesale propane marketing business through an agency relationship with a third party marketer located in Kansas City, Missouri. We buy propane on a wholesale basis and resell it to third parties, primarily propane retailers. This operation is fundamentally a high-volume, low margin business. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, 9% and 7%, respectively, of our revenue stemmed from our wholesale propane marketing business. The wholesale propane marketing business’ net operating margin in 2005 and 2004, as a percent of consolidated net operating margin, was 1% and 1%, respectively. MarkWest Energy Partners MarkWest Energy Partners’ operations may be summarized as follows: Southwest Business Unit • East Texas. MarkWest Energy Partners owns the East Texas System, consisting of natural gas-gathering system pipelines, centralized compressor stations, and a natural gas processing facility and NGL pipeline that are currently under construction. The East Texas System is located in Panola County and services the Carthage Field, one of Texas’ largest onshore natural gas fields. Producing formations in Panola County consist of the Cotton Valley, Pettit and Travis Peak formations, which together form one of the largest natural gas-producing regions in the United States. The Carthage Field has an estimated 18 Tcf of remaining recoverable reserves, and cumulative historical production in excess of 12 Tcf. • Oklahoma. MarkWest Energy Partners owns the Foss Lake gathering system and the Arapaho gas-processing plant, located in Roger Mills and Custer counties of Western Oklahoma. The gathering portion consists of a pipeline system that is connected to natural gas wells and associated compression facilities. All of the gathered gas ultimately is compressed and delivered to the processing plant. After processing, the residue gas is delivered to a third-party pipeline and natural gas liquids are sold to a single customer. • Other Southwest. MarkWest Energy Partners owns 17 natural gas-gathering systems located in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and New Mexico. These systems generally service long-lived natural gas basins that continue to experience drilling activity. The Partnership gathers a significant portion of the gas produced from fields adjacent to its gathering systems. In addition, the Partnership owns four lateral pipelines in Texas and New Mexico. Northeast Business Unit • Appalachia. MarkWest Energy Partners is the largest processor of natural gas in the Appalachian Basin with fully integrated processing, fractionation, storage and marketing operations. The Appalachian Basin is a large natural gas-producing region characterized by long-lived reserves and modest decline rates. 11 • Michigan. MarkWest Energy Partners owns an interstate crude oil gathering pipeline in Michigan and refers to this system as the Michigan Crude Pipeline. The Partnership also owns a natural gas gathering system and a natural gas processing plant in Michigan. Gulf Coast Business Unit • Javelina. On November 1, 2005, MarkWest Energy Partners acquired 100% of the equity interests in Javelina Company, Javelina Pipeline Company and Javelina Land Company, L.L.C., which were owned 40%, 40% and 20%, respectively, by subsidiaries of El Paso Corporation, Kerr-McGee Corporation, and Valero Energy Corporation. The Javelina entities own and operate a natural gas processing facility in Corpus Christi, Texas, which treats and processes off-gas from six local refineries. • Starfish. On March 31, 2005, the Partnership acquired a 50% non-operating ownership interest in Starfish Pipeline Company L.L.C. (“Starfish”), which operates, through its subsidiaries, certain Gulf Coast offshore and onshore facilities. Starfish owns the FERC-regulated Stingray natural gas pipeline, and the unregulated Triton natural gas gathering system and West Cameron dehydration facility. For external reporting purposes, we do not include Starfish information in this segment. However, management includes Starfish in its decision making and management of the Gulf Coast Business Unit. Regulatory Matters The activities of MarkWest Hydrocarbon and MarkWest Energy are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as orders of regulatory bodies, governing a wide variety of matters, including marketing, production, pricing, community right-to-know, protection of the environment, safety and other matters. In many cases, various phases of our gas, liquids and crude oil operations in the states in which we operate are subject to rate and service regulation. Applicable statutes generally require that our rates, and terms and conditions of service, provide no more than a fair return on the aggregate value of the facilities used to render services. In general, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) has jurisdiction over natural gas pipelines and operators that provide natural gas pipeline transportation services in interstate commerce. Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Policy Act (“NGA”), however, exempts natural gas-gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of FERC. We own a number of natural gas pipelines that we have evaluated, and concluded they meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline’s status as a gatherer not subject to the agency’s jurisdiction. Additionally, our intrastate natural gas pipeline operations generally are not subject to rate regulation by FERC, although they are regulated by various agencies of the states in which they are located, principally the Texas Railroad Commission, or TRRC. MarkWest Energy Partners’ Appalachian pipeline carries NGLs across state lines. The primary shipper on the pipeline is MarkWest Hydrocarbon, which has entered into agreements with the Partnership, providing for a fixed transportation charge for the term of the agreements. They expire on December 31, 2015. The Partnership is the only other shipper on the pipeline. As the Company neither operates the Appalachian pipeline as a common carrier nor holds it out for service to the public generally, there are currently no third-party shippers on this pipeline and the pipeline is, and will continue to be, operated as a proprietary facility. The likelihood of other entities seeking to utilize our Appalachian pipeline is remote, so it should not be subject to regulation by the FERC in the future. We cannot provide assurance, however, that FERC will not at some point determine that such transportation is within its jurisdiction, or that such an assertion would not adversely affect our results of operations. In such a case, we would be required to file a tariff with FERC and provide a cost justification for the transportation charge. Regardless of any FERC action, however, the Company has agreed to not challenge the status of the Appalachian pipeline or the transportation charge during the term of its agreements. With respect to the Company’s Michigan Crude Pipeline, in response to a shipper inquiry to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and following unsuccessful FERC-requested rate structure discussions with the shippers, FERC recently requested that we file a tariff. We filed a tariff with the agency establishing a cost-of-service rate structure to be effective starting January 1, 2006. Two shippers and a producer protested the filing. The Company vigorously defended its tariff, and on December 29, 2005, the Commission rejected the protestors’ request for interim rates and accepted the filing. The new rate structure became effective January 1, 2006. The Commission established hearing procedures for the tariff filing, but held them in abeyance pending the outcome of FERC-sponsored settlement discussions, which the parties now have been referred to under the agency’s procedures. The Company cannot predict whether the FERC tariff protest or any settlement will adversely affect its Michigan Crude Pipeline results of operations. 12 Environmental Matters MarkWest Hydrocarbon We are subject to environmental risks normally incidental to our operations and construction activities including, but not limited to, uncontrollable flows of natural gas, fluids and other substances into the environment, explosions, fires, pollution and other environmental and safety risks. Our business is subject to comprehensive state and federal environmental regulations. For example, we, without regard to fault, could incur liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (also known as Superfund), or state counterparts, in connection with the disposal or other releases of hazardous substances, including sour gas, and for natural resource damages. Further, the recent trend in environmental legislation and regulations is toward stricter standards, and this will likely continue in the future. Our activities are subject to environmental and safety regulation by federal and state authorities, including, without limitation, the state environmental agencies and the federal Environmental Protection Agency, which can increase the costs of designing, installing and operating our facilities. In most instances, the regulatory requirements relate to the discharge of substances into the environment and include measures to control water and air pollution. Laws and regulations may require us to obtain a permit or other authorization before we may conduct certain activities or we may be subject to fines and penalties for non-compliance. Further, these rules may limit or prohibit our activities within wilderness areas, wetlands, and areas providing habitat for certain species or other protected areas. We are also subject to other federal, state and local laws covering the handling, storage or discharge of materials used by us. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. MarkWest Energy Partners General. The Partnership’s processing and fractionation plants, pipelines, and associated facilities are subject to multiple environmental obligations and potential liabilities under a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations. These include, without limitation: the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Clean Air Act; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act or the Clean Water Act; the Oil Pollution Act; and analogous state and local laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations affect many aspects of the Partnership’s present and future operations, and generally require it to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals, with respect to air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, and solid and hazardous waste management. Failure to comply with these requirements may expose the Partnership to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in its operations that could influence its results of operations. If an accidental leak, spill or release of hazardous substances occurs at any facilities the Partnership owns, operates or otherwise uses, or where it sends materials for treatment or disposal, the Partnership could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation, remedial and clean-up costs. Likewise, the Partnership could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including groundwater contamination. The Partnership could also be required to perform remedial operations to prevent future contamination for properties owned, leased or acquired by it which may have been previously operated by third parties that may have released or disposed of hazardous substances or wastes. Any or all of this could materially affect the Partnership’s results of operations and cash flows. The Partnership believes that its operations and facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and that the cost of compliance with such laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on the Partnership’s results of operations or financial condition. The Partnership cannot ensure, however, that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable. The clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may be perceived to affect the environment, and thus there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental-regulation compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts the Partnership currently anticipate. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from the Partnership’s customers, could have material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Ongoing Remediation and Indemnification from a Third Party. The previous owner/operator of the Partnership’s Boldman and Cobb facilities has been, or is currently involved in, investigatory or remedial activities with respect to the real property underlying these facilities. These arise out of a September 1994 “Administrative Order by Consent for Removal Actions” with EPA Regions II, III, IV, and V; and an “Agreed Order” entered into with the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet in October 1994. The previous owner/operator has accepted sole liability and responsibility for, and indemnifies MarkWest Hydrocarbon against, any environmental liabilities associated with the EPA Administrative Order, the Kentucky Agreed Order or any other environmental condition related to the real property prior to the effective dates of the Company’s lease or purchase of the real property. In addition, the previous owner/operator has 13 agreed to perform all the required response actions at its expense in a manner that minimizes interference with MarkWest Hydrocarbon’s use of the properties. On May 24, 2002, the Company assigned to the Partnership the benefit of this indemnity from the previous owner/operator. To date, the previous owner/operator has been performing all actions required under these agreements and, accordingly, we do not believe that the remediation obligation of these properties will have a material adverse impact on the Partnership’s financial condition or results of operations. Pipeline Safety Regulations The Company’s pipelines are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) under the Pipeline Safety Act of 1992, as amended (“Pipeline Safety Act”), and the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (“HLPSA”), as amended; and the Pipeline Integrity Management (“PIM”) in High Consequence Areas (Gas Transmission Pipelines) amendment to 49 CFR Part 192, effective February 14, 2004, relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of pipeline facilities. The Pipeline Safety Act requires the Research and Special Programs Administration of the DOT to consider environmental impacts, as well as its traditional public safety mandate, when developing pipeline safety regulations. The DOT’s pipeline operator qualification rules require minimum qualification requirements for personnel performing operations and maintenance activities on hazardous liquid pipelines. HLPSA covers crude oil, carbon dioxide, NGL and petroleum products pipelines and requires any entity which owns or operates pipeline facilities to comply with the regulations under HLPSA, to permit access to and allow copying of records and to make certain reports and provide information as required by the Secretary of Transportation. The Pipeline Integrity Management in High Consequence Areas (Gas Transmission Pipelines) amendment to 49 CFR Part 192 (PIM) requires operators of gas transmission pipelines to ensure the integrity of their pipelines through hydrostatic pressure testing, the use of in-line inspection tools or through risk-based direct assessment techniques. While we believe that our pipeline operations are in substantial compliance with applicable requirements, due to the possibility of new or amended laws and regulations, or reinterpretation of existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that future compliance with the requirements will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial positions. On November 8, 2004, a leak and release of vapors occurred in a pipeline transporting NGLs from the Partnership’s Maytown gas processing plant to the Partnership’s Siloam fractionator. This pipeline is owned by a third party, and leased and operated by the Partnership’s subsidiary, MarkWest Energy Appalachia, LLC. A subsequent ignition and fire from the leaked vapors resulted in property damage to five homes and injuries to some of the residents. Pursuant to a Corrective Action Order issued by the federal Office of Pipeline Safety (“OPS”) on November 18, 2004 and amended November 24, 2004, OPS required pipeline and valve integrity evaluation, testing and repair efforts, which MarkWest successfully completed on the affected pipeline segment. Based on, among other things, the successful integrity testing of the affected pipeline, OPS authorized a partial return to service of the affected pipeline in October 2005. The Partnership is currently preparing its application for return to full service. Employee Safety The workplaces associated with the processing and storage facilities and the pipelines we operate are also subject to oversight from the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration, (“OSHA”), as well as comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard-communication standard requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in operations, and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities, and citizens. We believe that we have conducted our operations in substantial compliance with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, record-keeping requirements and monitoring of occupational exposure to regulated substances. In general, we expect industry and regulatory safety standards to become stricter over time, resulting in increased compliance expenditures. While these expenditures cannot be accurately estimated at this time, we do not expect such expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had 235 employees, who operate the Partnership’s facilities and provide general and administrative services. The Paper, Allied Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union Local 5-372 represents 15 employees at the Partnership’s Siloam fractionation facility in South Shore, Kentucky. The collective bargaining agreement with this Union was renewed on July 11, 2005, for a term of three years. The agreement covers only hourly, non-supervisory employees. We consider labor relations to be satisfactory at this time. 14 Available Information Our principal executive office is located at 155 Inverness Drive West, Suite 200, Englewood, Colorado, 80112-5000. Our telephone number is 303-290-8700. Our common stock trades on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol “MWP.” You can find more information about us at our Internet website, www.markwest.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are available free of charge through our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the Securities & Exchange Commission. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors when evaluating MarkWest Hydrocarbon. Risks Inherent in Our Business We are highly dependent upon the earnings and distributions of MarkWest Energy Partners. A significant decline in MarkWest Energy Partners’ earnings and/or cash distributions would have a corresponding negative impact on us. For more information on these earnings and cash distributions, please see MarkWest Energy Partners’ 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are unable to successfully integrate the Partnership’s recent or future acquisitions, our future financial performance may be negatively impacted. Our future growth will depend in part on our ability to integrate the Partnership’s recent acquisitions, as well as its ability to acquire additional assets and businesses at competitive prices. The Partnership recently completed the Starfish and Javelina acquisitions, which geographically expanded its operations into offshore and onshore Gulf of Mexico operations. We cannot assure you that the Partnership will successfully integrate these or any other acquisitions into its operations, or that the Partnership will achieve the desired profitability from such acquisitions. Failure to do so could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The integration of acquisitions with our existing business involves numerous risks, including: • operating a significantly larger combined organization and integrating additional midstream operations to our existing operations; • difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographical area; • the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the failure to realize expected synergies and cost savings; • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel from diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; and • consolidating corporate and administrative functions. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Following an acquisition, the Partnership may discover previously unknown liabilities subject to the same stringent environmental laws and regulations relating to releases of pollutants into the environment and environmental protection as the Partnership’s existing plants, pipelines and facilities. If so, the Partnership’s operation of these new assets could cause us to incur increased costs to attain or maintain compliance with such requirements. If the Partnership consummates any future acquisition, its capitalization and results of operation may change significantly, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. The Partnership’s acquisition strategy is based, in part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of assets within the midstream petroleum and natural gas industry. A material decrease in such divestitures could limit the Partnership’s opportunities for future acquisitions, and could adversely affect its operations and cash flows available for distribution to its unitholders. 15 Our commodity derivative activities may reduce our earnings, profitability and cash flows. Our operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices. We utilize derivative financial instruments related to the future price of natural gas and certain NGLs with the intent of reducing volatility in our cash flows due to fluctuations in commodity prices. We account for derivative instruments in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our hedging activities. We have a policy to enter into derivative transactions related to only a portion of the volume of our expected production or fuel requirements and, as a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure to the unhedged portion. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our actual future production or fuel requirements may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our hedging activities are subject to the risks that a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument, the terms of the derivative instruments are imperfect, and our hedging policies and procedures are not properly followed. It is possible that the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. Our management has discretion in conducting our risk management activities and may not accurately predict future price fluctuations and therefore expose us to financial risks and reduce our opportunity to benefit from price increases. We evaluate our exposure to commodity price risk from an overall portfolio basis. Our management has discretion in determining whether and how to manage the commodity price risk associated with our physical and derivative positions. To the extent that we do not manage the commodity price risk relating to a position that is subject to commodity price risk, and commodity prices move adversely, we could suffer losses. Such losses could be substantial, and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in commodity prices subject us to margin calls, which may adversely affect our liquidity. Unfavorable commodity price changes may subject us to margin calls that require us to provide cash collateral to our counterparties in amounts that may be material. Such funding requirements could exceed our ability to access our credit line or other sources of capital. If we are unable to meet these margin calls with borrowings or cash on hand, we would be forced to sell product to meet the margin calls, or to terminate the corresponding futures contracts. If we are forced to sell product to meet margin calls, we may have to sell product at prices that are not advantageous, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Partnership’s substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. The Partnership has substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations. Subject to the restrictions governing the Partnership’s indebtedness and other financial obligations, and the indenture governing our existing debt, the Partnership may incur significant additional indebtedness and other financial obligations, which may be secured and/or structurally senior to its existing debt. The Partnership’s substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could have important consequences. For example, they could: • make it more difficult for the Partnership to satisfy its obligations with respect to its existing debt; • impair the Partnership’s ability to obtain additional financings in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; • have a material adverse effect on the Partnership if it fails to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in the Partnership’s debt agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of that failure that is not cured or 16 waived; • require the Partnership to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow to payments on its indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of the Partnership’s cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, distributions and other general partnership requirements; • limit the Partnership’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and • place the Partnership at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have proportionately less debt. These restrictions could limit the Partnership’s ability, and the ability of its subsidiaries, to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in its business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. The Partnership’s existing credit facility contains covenants requiring it to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. The Partnership may be unable to meet those ratios and conditions. Any future breach of any of these covenants or the Partnership’s failure to meet any of these ratios or conditions could result in a default under the terms of the Partnership’s credit facility, which could result in acceleration of its debt and other financial obligations. If the Partnership were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding or proceed against the collateral. A significant decrease in natural gas and refinery off-gas supplies in the Partnership’s areas of operation due to the decline in production from existing wells, refinery operations, depressed commodity prices, reduced drilling activities or other factors otherwise could adversely affect our revenues and operating income and cash flow. Our profitability is influenced by the volume of natural gas the Partnership gathers, transmits and processes, and NGLs the Partnership transports and fractionates at its facilities. A decrease in natural gas or refinery off-gas supplies in the Partnership’s areas of operation would result in a decline in the volume of natural gas delivered to its pipelines and facilities for gathering, transporting and processing and NGLs delivered to its pipelines and facilities for fractionation, storage, transportation and sales. This would reduce the Partnership’s revenue and operating income. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of operations, the amount of reserves underlying the wells and the “decline rate,” or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. Failure to connect new wells to the Partnership’s gathering systems would, therefore, result in a reduction of the amount of natural gas it gathers, transmits and processes and the amount of NGLs the Partnership transports and fractionates. Over time upon exhaustion of the current wells, this could cause the Partnership to abandon its gathering systems and, possibly, cease gathering operations. As a consequence of such declines, our revenues would decrease. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and a general increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could reduce our revenues and cash flow. We are diligent in attempting to ensure that we issue credit to only credit-worthy customers. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, however, we may experience losses in dealing with operators and other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could reduce our revenues and cash flow. The Partnership may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would reduce its revenues and limit its future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with the Partnership’s customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond its control, including competition from other gatherers, processors, pipelines, fractionators, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas, NGLs and crude oil in the markets we serve. The Partnership’s competitors include large oil, natural gas, refining and petrochemical companies, some of which have greater financial resources, more numerous or greater capacity pipelines, processing and other facilities, and greater access to natural gas and NGL supplies than the Partnership does. Additionally, the Partnership’s customers that gather gas through facilities that are not otherwise dedicated to the Partnership may develop their own processing and fractionation facilities in lieu of using the Partnership’s services. Certain of the Partnership’s competitors may also have advantages in competing for acquisitions, or other new business opportunities, because of their financial resources and synergies in operations. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry, and the volatility of natural gas prices, end-users 17 and utilities are reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternative fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with the Partnership in the marketing of natural gas, the Partnership often competes in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The inability of the Partnership’s management to renew or replace its current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could affect its profitability. Relative changes in NGL product and natural gas prices may adversely impact our results due to frac spread, natural gas and liquids exposure. We are exposed to frac spread risk. Under our keep-whole arrangements, our principal cost is delivering dry gas of an equivalent Btu content to replace Btus extracted from the gas stream in the form of NGLs, or consumed as fuel during processing. The spread between the NGL product sales price and the purchase price of natural gas with an equivalent Btu content is called the “frac spread.” Generally, the frac spread and, consequently, the net operating margins are positive under these contracts. In the event natural gas becomes more expensive on a Btu equivalent basis than NGL products, the cost of keeping the producer “whole” results in operating losses. Due to timing of gas purchases and liquid sales, direct exposure to either gas or liquids can be created because there is no longer an offsetting purchase or sale that remains exposed to market pricing. Through our marketing and derivatives activity, direct exposure may occur naturally or we may choose direct exposure to either gas or liquids when we favor that exposure over frac spread risk. Given that we have positions, adverse movement in prices to the positions we have taken will negatively impact our results. Through our interest in the Partnership, our profitability is affected by the volatility of NGL product and natural gas prices. Crude oil, NGL products and natural gas prices have been volatile in recent years in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for NGL products and natural gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including: • the level of domestic oil, natural gas and NGL production; • imports of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs; • seasonality; • the condition of the U.S. economy; • political conditions in other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries; and • domestic government regulation, legislation and policies. The net operating margins of the Partnership under its various types of commodity-based contracts are directly affected by changes in NGL product prices and natural gas prices, and thus are more sensitive to volatility in commodity prices than its fee-based contracts. Additionally, its purchase and resale of gas in the ordinary course of business exposes it to significant risk with volatility in gas prices due to the potential difference in the time of the purchases and sales, and the existence of a difference in the gas price associated with each transaction. The Partnership’s Javelina processing agreements are also potentially affected by the profitability of the NGLs and other products relative to the fuel value of the refinery off-gas stream. Finally, changes in natural gas prices may indirectly affect the Partnership’s profitability, since prices can influence drilling activity and well operations and, thus, the volume of gas it gathers and processes. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and we believe this volatility may continue. We have found material weaknesses in our internal controls that require remediation and concluded, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that our internal controls over financial reporting at December 31, 2005, were not effective. As we discuss in our Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting in Part II, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” of this Form 10-K, we have discovered deficiencies, including material weaknesses, in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. In particular, we identified, and Deloitte & Touche’s audit report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 confirmed the presence of, the following material weaknesses: 18 • Ineffective control environment; and • Risk management and accounting for derivative financial instruments. We are fully committed to remediating the material weaknesses described above, and we believe that we are taking the steps that will properly address these issues. Further, our Audit Committee has been and expects to remain actively involved in the remediation planning and implementation. However, the remediation of the design of the deficient controls and the associated testing efforts are not complete, and further remediation may be required. While we are taking immediate steps and dedicating substantial resources to correct these material weaknesses, they will not be considered remediated until the new and improved internal controls operate for a period of time, are tested and are found to be operating effectively. Pending the successful completion of such testing and the hiring of additional personnel, we will perform mitigating procedures. If we fail to remediate any material weaknesses, we could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. Our industry is subject to numerous operating hazards and risks incidental to processing, transporting, fractionating and storing natural gas and NGLs and to transporting and storing crude oil. These include: • damage to pipelines, plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by floods and other natural disasters; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leakage of crude oil, natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; • fires and explosions; and • other hazards, including those associated with high-sulfur content, or sour gas that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. As a result, we may be the defendants in various legal proceedings and litigation arising from our operations. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. Market conditions could cause certain insurance premiums and deductibles to become unavailable, or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers now require broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Transportation on certain of the Partnership’s pipelines may be subject to federal or state rate and service regulation, and the imposition and/or cost of compliance with such regulation could adversely affect our profitability. Some of the Partnership’s gas, liquids and crude oil transmission operations may be subject to rate and service regulations under FERC, or various state regulatory bodies, depending upon jurisdiction. FERC generally regulates the transportation of natural gas and oil in interstate commerce, and FERC’s regulatory authority includes: facilities construction, acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; accounts and records; and depreciation and amortization policies. Intrastate natural gas pipeline operations are generally not subject to regulation by FERC, and the Natural Gas Act (“NGA”) specifically exempts some gathering systems. Yet such operations may still be subject to regulation by various state agencies. The applicable statutes and regulations generally require that our rates and terms and conditions of service provide no more than a fair return on the aggregate value of the facilities used to render services. FERC rate cases can involve complex and expensive proceedings. For more information regarding regulatory matters that could affect our business, please see Item 1, Regulatory Matters. The Partnership is indemnified for liabilities arising from an ongoing remediation of property on which its facilities are located and its results of operation and its ability to make payments of principal and interest on its debt could be adversely affected if the indemnifying party fails to perform its indemnification obligation. Columbia Gas is the previous or current owner of the property on which the Partnership’s Kenova, Boldman, Cobb and Kermit facilities are located, and is the previous operator of its Boldman and Cobb facilities. Columbia Gas has been, or is currently, involved in investigatory or remedial activities with respect to the real property underlying the Boldman and Cobb facilities, pursuant to an “Administrative Order by Consent for Removal Actions” entered into by Columbia Gas and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and, in the case of the Boldman facility, an “Agreed Order” with the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet. 19 Columbia Gas has agreed to retain sole liability and responsibility for, and to indemnify MarkWest Hydrocarbon against, any environmental liabilities associated with these regulatory orders or the real property underlying these facilities to the extent such liabilities arose prior to the effective date of the agreements pursuant to which such properties were acquired or leased from Columbia Gas. At the closing of our initial public offering, MarkWest Hydrocarbon assigned us the benefit of its indemnity from Columbia Gas with respect to the Cobb, Boldman and Kermit facilities. While the Partnership is not a party to the agreement under which Columbia Gas agreed to indemnify MarkWest Hydrocarbon with respect to the Kenova facility, MarkWest Hydrocarbon has agreed to provide to the benefit of its indemnity, as well as any other third party environmental indemnity of which it is a beneficiary. MarkWest Hydrocarbon has also agreed to provide an additional environmental indemnity pursuant to the terms of the Omnibus Agreement. The Company’s results of operation and ability to make cash distributions could be adversely affected if, in the future, Columbia Gas fails to perform under the indemnification provisions of which the Company is the beneficiary. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to environmental, safety and other regulatory matters, and the violation of or the cost of compliance with such laws and regulations could adversely affect our profitability. Numerous governmental agencies enforce complex and stringent laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, safety and other regulatory matters. We could be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental laws and regulations might adversely influence our products and activities. Federal, state and local agencies also could impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect our profitability. In addition, we face the risk of accidental releases or spills associated with our operations. These could result in material costs and liabilities, including those relating to claims for damages to property and persons. Our failure to comply with environmental or safety-related laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations and even injunctions that restrict or prohibit our operations. For more information regarding the environmental, safety and other regulatory matters that could affect our business, please see Item 1, Regulatory Matters and Environmental Matters. MarkWest Energy Partners may not be able to successfully execute its business plan and may not be able to grow its business, which could adversely affect the value of our investment in the limited partner units and the general partnership interests in MarkWest Energy Partners. MarkWest Energy Partners’ ability to successfully operate its business, generate sufficient cash to pay the minimum quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, and to allow for growth, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainty. Similarly, MarkWest Energy Partners may not be able to successfully expand its business through acquiring or growing its assets, because of various factors, including economic and competitive factors beyond its control. If MarkWest Energy Partners is unable to grow its business, or execute on its business plan, the market price of the common units is likely to decline, causing the limited partner units and the general partner interest we hold in MarkWest Energy Partners to also decline in value. Our cash flow would be adversely affected if operations at any of the Partnership’s facilities were interrupted. The Partnership’s operations depend upon the infrastructure that it has developed, including processing and fractionation plants, storage facilities, and various means of transportation. Any significant interruption at these facilities or pipelines, or the Partnership’s inability to transmit natural gas or NGLs, or transport crude oil to or from these facilities or pipelines for any reason, would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Operations at the Partnership’s facilities could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of circumstances not within its control, such as: • unscheduled turnarounds or catastrophic events at our physical plants; • labor difficulties that result in a work stoppage or slowdown; or • a disruption in the supply of crude oil to the Partnership’s crude oil pipeline, natural gas to its processing plants or gathering pipelines, or a disruption in the supply of NGLs to the Partnership’s transportation pipeline and fractionation facility. Due to the Partnership’s lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in the Partnership’s gathering, processing, transportation, transmission, fractionation and storage businesses would reduce the Partnership’s ability to make distributions to its unitholders. 20 We rely on the revenues generated from the Partnership’s gathering, processing, transportation, transmission, fractionation and storage businesses. An adverse development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. The tax treatment of MarkWest Energy Partners depends upon its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as it not being subject to entity-level taxation by states. If the Internal Revenue Service were to treat MarkWest Energy Partners as a corporation, or if it were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then its cash available for distribution would be significantly reduced. We own limited partner units representing approximately 19% of the limited partnership interests in MarkWest Energy Partners, in addition to a 2% general partnership interest. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in the limited partner units of MarkWest Energy Partners depends largely on MarkWest Energy Partners being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If MarkWest Energy Partners were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal income tax on its income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%. Cash distributions to the holders of limited partnership interests, including the subordinated units we hold and the common units held by the public, would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to the holders of the limited partnership interests to shelter a substantial portion of such distributions from state and federal income taxes. Because a tax would be imposed upon MarkWest Energy Partners as a corporation, its cash available for distribution to limited partners would be significantly reduced. Thus, treatment of MarkWest Energy Partners as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to its owners, including us, as a holder of the limited partner units, likely causing a significant reduction in the value of the market price of the common units. A shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity, and competitive costs and could adversely affect our profitability. The Partnership’s operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. In recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, which decreases our productivity and increases our costs. This shortage of trained workers is the result of the previous generation’s experienced workers reaching the age for retirement, combined with the difficulty of attracting new laborers to the midstream energy industry. Thus, this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 