Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risk and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. See also, “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Recen t Developments.” If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. References to “we,” “us,” and “our” in this section refer to the Company and its subsidiary, unless otherwise specified or unless the context otherwise requires. Risks Related to the Company’s Business We are subject to current financial market risk. In 2009 and continuing in 2010, governments, regulators and central banks in the United States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. The EESA authorizes the U. S. Treasury to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions and their holding companies, under TARP. The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the United States banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Under the Capital Purchase Program, which the Company participated in, the U. S. Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until December 31, 2013 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. The ARRA, which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, includes a wide array of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our Common Stock. 12. Centrue Financial Corporation Part I (Table Amounts In Thousands, Except Share Data) The EESA and the ARRA followed, and have been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve Board, the United States Congress, the U. S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime mortgage meltdown that began in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weakn esses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the United States banking system. The EESA, the ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. Managing the Company’s allowance for loan losses is based upon, among other things, (1) historical experience, (2) an evaluation of local and national economic conditions, (3) regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality, (4) current trends regarding the volume and severity of past due and problem loans, (5) the existence and effect of concentrations of credit, and (6) results of regulatory examinations. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the respective loan portfolios. Although the Company believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that such allowance will prove sufficient to cover future losses. Future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions change or adverse developments arise with re spect to nonperforming or performing loans or if regulatory supervision changes. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a material decrease in the Company’s net income, and possibly its capital, among other adverse consequences. We are subject to lending risk. As of December 31, 2009 approximately 81.48% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial, and agricultural, real estate construction, and commercial real estate loans (collectively, “commercial loans”). Commercial loans are generally viewed as having more inherent risk of default than residential mortgage loans or retail loans. In addition, the commercial loan balance per borrower is typically larger than that for residential mortgage loans and retail loans, inferring higher potential losses on an individual loan basis. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a number of commercial loans with large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earni ngs from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See Part II “Loans” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for further discussion of credit risks related to different loan types. We are subject to economic conditions of our geographic market. The Company’s success depends to a large degree on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets served by the Bank in the States of Illinois and Missouri and, to a lesser extent, contiguous states. The local economic conditions on these areas have a significant impact on the generation of the Bank’s commercial, real estate commercial, and real estate construction loans; the ability of borrowers to repay these loans; and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of the counties in which we operate could also negatively impact the financial results of the Company’s operations and have a negative effect on its profitability. For example, these factors could lead to reduced interest income and an increase in the provision for loan losses. 13. Centrue Financial Corporation Part I (Table Amounts In Thousands, Except Share Data) A portion of the loans in the Company’s portfolio is secured by real estate. Most of these loans are secured by properties located in the north central, east central, south central and St. Louis’s suburban east counties of Illinois, as well as, the St. Louis metro area of Missouri. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could adversely affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, supply and demand for properties and governmental rules or policies. Decline in the Company’s stock price could require a write-down of some portion or all of the Company’s goodwill. If the Company’s stock price declines and remains low for an extended period of time, the Company could be required to write off all or a portion of its goodwill, which represents the value in excess of the Company’s tangible book value. Such write off would reduce earnings in the period in which it is recorded. The Company’s stock price is subject to market conditions that can be impacted by forces outside of the control of management, such as a perceived weakness in financial institutions in general, and may not be a direct result of the Company’s performance. A write-down of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. We are subject to current levels of unprecedented market volatility. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future growth or operating results may require the Company to raise additional capital but that capital may not be available or it may be dilutive. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. To the extent the Company’s future operating results erode capital or the Company elects to expand through loan growth or acquisition it may be required to raise capital. The Company’s ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on the Company’s financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, it will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on its growth and business. These could negatively impact the Company’s ability to operate or further expand its operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Real estate market volatility and future changes in disposition strategies could result in net proceeds that differ significantly from other real estate owned (“OREO”) fair value appraisals. The Company’s OREO portfolio consists of properties that it obtained through foreclosure in satisfaction of loans. OREO properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loans for which the properties served as collateral or estimated fair value, less estimated selling costs. Generally, in determining fair value an orderly disposition of the property is assumed, except where a different disposition strategy is expected. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of OREO property, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current is significantly shortened during periods of market volatility, as experienced during 2008 and 2009. 14. Centrue Financial Corporation Part I (Table Amounts In Thousands, Except Share Data) In response to market conditions and other economic factors, the Company may utilize alternative sale strategies other than orderly dispositions as part of its OREO disposition strategy, such as immediate liquidation sales. In this event, as a result of the significant judgments required in estimating fair value and the variables involved in different methods of disposition, the net proceeds realized from such sales transactions could differ significantly from estimates used to determine the fair value of the Company’s OREO properties. Overdraft regulation could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Federal Reserve has amended Regulation E (Electronic Fund Transfers) effective July 1, 2010 to require consumers to opt in, or affirmatively consent, to the institution’s overdraft service for ATM and one-time debit card transactions, before overdraft fees may be assessed on the account. Consumers will also be provided a clear disclosure of the fees and terms associated with the institution’s overdraft service. Such change could adversely affect the level of the Company’s overdraft fees. The Company and the Bank may not be able to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. The Company records deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The deferred tax assets can be recognized in future periods dependent upon a number of factors, including the ability to realize the asset through carryback or carryforward to taxable income in prior or future years, the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income, and the possible application of future tax planning strategies. If the Company is not able to recognize deferred tax assets in future periods, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is a bank holding Company and its sources of funds are limited. The Company is a bank holding company, and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to stockholders of the Company is derived primarily from dividends received from the Bank. The Company’s ability to receive dividends or loans from its subsidiaries is restricted. Dividend payments by the Bank to the Company in the future will require generation of future earnings by the Bank and could require regulatory approval if the proposed dividend is in excess of prescribed guidelines. Further, the Company’s right to participate in the assets of the Bank upon its liquidation, reorganization, or otherwise will be subject to the claims of the Bank’s creditors, including depositors, which will take priority except to the extent the Company may be a creditor with a recognized claim. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s subsidiary had deposits and other liabilities of $1.14 billion. The Company could experience an unexpected inability to obtain needed liquidity. Liquidity measures the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs as they become due. The liquidity of a financial institution reflects its ability to meet loan requests, to accommodate possible outflows in deposits, and to take advantage of interest rate market opportunities. The ability of a financial institution to meet its current financial obligations is a function of its balance sheet structure, its ability to liquidate assets, and its access to alternative sources of funds. The Company seeks to ensure its funding needs are met by maintaining a level of liquidity through asset and liability management. If the Company becomes unable to obtain funds when needed, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 15. Centrue Financial Corporation Part I (Table Amounts In Thousands, Except Share Data) We are subject to interest rate risk. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning a ssets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company’s interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on the Company’s balance sheet. See Part II sections “Net Interest Income” and “Interest Rate Risk” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for further discussion related to the Company’ ;s management of interest rate risk. Mergers and Acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. The Company regularly evaluates mergers and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. The Company seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar, have experienced management, and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale, or expanded services. Acquiring or merging with other banks, businesses, and acquiring branches involves potential adverse impact to the Company’s financial results and various other risks commonly associated with mergers and acquisitions, i ncluding, among other things: ● difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; ● payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute the Company’s tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and long term; ● potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; ● exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; ● there may be volatility in reported income as goodwill impairment losses could occur irregularly and in varying amounts; ● difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; ● inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits; ● potential disruption to the Company’s business; ● potential diversion of the Company’s management’s time and attention; ● the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; and ● potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. 16. Centrue Financial Corporation Part I (Table Amounts In Thousands, Except Share Data) Details of the Company’s recent acquisition activity are presented in Note 2, “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures,” of the notes to consolidated financial statements within Part II, Item 8. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of its information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to a dditional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with the Company’s Industry We operate in a highly regulated industry. The banking industry is heavily regulated. The banking business of the Company and the Bank are subject, in certain respects, to regulation by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the IDFPR and the SEC. The Company’s success depends not only on competitive factors but also on state and federal regulations affecting banks and bank holding companies. The regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, not stockholders or other security holders. The ultimate effect of recent and proposed changes to the regulation of the financial institution industry cannot be predicted. Regulations now affecting the Company may be modified at any time, and there is no assurance that such modifications, if any, will not adversely affect the Company’s business. We operate in an industry that is interrelated such that defaults by other larger institutions could adversely affect financial markets generally. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect our business. We operate in an industry that is significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. The Company’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U. S. economy and the local economies in which the Company operates, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. Deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values, and a decrease in demand for the Company’s products and services among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial c ondition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17. Centrue Financial Corporation Part I (Table Amounts In Thousands, Except Share Data) 