ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A variety of risk factors, including those stated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are pertinent to investors evaluating shipwreck recovery businesses, operations and financial condition. This section provides a summary of the major risks applicable to Marine, but it is not inclusive of all risks. SUMMARY RISK FACTORS o Shipwreck recovery is a high-risk business. o Marine relies on data that may be unreliable. o Marine may have limited access to raw materials. o Natural hazards may affect our operations. o Marine may not be able to establish rights to objects we recover. o The market for recovered objects is unpredictable. o Disposition or sale of recovered objects is unreliable. o Legal, political, and civil issues may interfere with recovery efforts. o There is always the potential that recovered objects can be stolen from us. o There are competitors in shipwreck recovery. o There is the possibility that Marine is denied permission to conduct salvage operations. o Various factors affect the potential profitability of documentaries related to recoveries o Marine may alter its business strategy or businesses, which may increase costs or otherwise affect the profitability of our businesses. o Marine's ability to raise capital to fund operations and capital expenditures is uncertain. o Financial covenants in our notes payable and revolving credit facility may restrict our operations or harm our financial condition. o Marine relies on key employees and faces competition in hiring and retaining qualified employees. o Marine's issuance of both Common and Preferred Share under the terms of our Articles of Incorporation may cause dilution. Shipwreck recovery is a high-risk business. Investors should be aware that their investment in Marine is extremely speculative and high risk. Although we have access to substantial data related to potential recovery sites, its quality and reliability is uncertain. Even when projects are funded and permitted, there is always the potential that shipwrecks may not be located or, once located, will be found to have already been salvaged or may not yield valuable cargo. If valuable objects are found and recovered, the cost of recovery may exceed the value of the objects recovered or that private parties or governments will make claims to the objects. Finally, the market for recovered items is uncertain and there are no guarantees that they will yield high prices. 3 Marine relies on data that may be unreliable. Successful recovery projects are of course, first and foremost, dependent upon the data we obtain regarding a shipwreck location, contents and numerous other factors. By its nature, these data are based on assumptions, which may or may not be accurate, and are therefore imprecise, incomplete and unreliable. Marine may have limited access to raw materials. Marine must create inventory by recovering valuable cargoes from shipwrecks. If our exploration and recovery efforts are unsuccessful we will not have sufficient inventory to sell. Natural hazards may affect our operations. Weather, sea conditions and natural hazards can delay or force suspension of Marine's inherently difficult underwater recovery efforts. Operations are limited to certain months of the year and Marine cannot guarantee when or if Marine, or the entities with which we are affiliated, will be able to conduct search and recovery operations. Unexpected conditions at sea can adversely affect Marine operations, and our ability to operate themed attractions, at any time. Marine may not be able to establish rights to objects we recover. We are affiliated with other persons and entities, both private and governmental, that may claim title to the shipwrecks we target for exploration. Even when we are successful in locating and recovering items, we cannot guarantee we will be able to establish our right to them if governmental entities, prior owners, or other attempted salvagers claim an interest. In such an event, we could incur significant expenditures without generating any revenue. The market for recovered objects is unpredictable. The market price cannot be predicted in advance for items that are located and recovered, and for which rights are secured. Prices fluctuate with the highly volatile precious metals market. Marine also has no control over the volume and type of competing items on the market at any given time, which can affect prices. Disposition or sale of recovered objects is unreliable. Selling items is an uncertain process and a viable market for artifacts and other recovered items cannot be guaranteed. Marine's cash flow can be adversely affected by delays in the disposition of recovered items. Legal, political, and civil issues may interfere with recovery efforts. Marine cannot predict or control changes in the legal, political or civil landscape of governments, and these changes can restrict our access to shipwrecks and interfere with search and recovery operations. There is the potential that recovered objects can be stolen from us. "Pirates" and poachers always present a risk to our operations. Thieves can steal items at sea, before or after recovery, and these thefts may not be adequately covered by insurance. There are competitors in shipwreck recovery. We have identified a number of companies that compete with Marine and other competitors may emerge. There is always the risk that a competitor may locate and recover a shipwreck that we have targeted for recovery. Competitors may have more resources to devote to their projects than Marine does. There is the possibility that Marine is denied permission to conduct salvage operations. In some cases, Marine must obtain proper title or permission to excavate certain wrecks. Governments and private entities to not always recognize and honor the title or permission we obtain. 4 Various factors affect the potential profitability of documentaries related to recoveries. One component of our business plan is to create themed attractions, whose success is subject to successful site selection, strong projections, and related issues. Our projections could be inaccurate and there are economic conditions out of our control that would affect profitability. Our themed attractions will be seasonal and face competition with other forms of entertainment. Changes in our business strategy or restructuring of our businesses may increase our costs or otherwise affect the profitability of our businesses. We will adjust our business strategy as changes in the business environment require, and may incur costs in doing so. Marine's costs may increase and we may incur significant charges associated with the write-down of assets. Marine's ability to raise capital to fund operations and capital expenditures is uncertain. While marine has successfully raised the necessary funds for our operation in the past, there is no assurance we can continue to do so. Our ability to generate cash flow depends on our ability to identify, recover and profitably dispose of high-value shipwrecks. We cannot guarantee that sales will generate enough cash flow to meet overall cash requirements. If cash flow is insufficient to meet our business requirements, we may raise additional capital through other financing activities. Financial covenants in our notes payable and revolving credit facility may restrict our operations or harm our financial condition. Our notes payable and revolving credit facility contains financial and operating covenants that may restrict our operating activities. They include net worth requirements and other debt limitations. If we do not comply with any of the loan covenants, a default could result and our lenders could accelerate the timing of our payment obligations. This could negatively impact our business, operations, financial condition or liquidity. Marine relies on key employees and faces competition in hiring and retaining qualified employees. Given the unique nature of our business, employees are vital to our success. Certain key managers and personnel would be difficult to replace. We do not have employment contracts with our key employees or maintain life insurance on them. Our success depends upon our ability to retain these key employees. Marine's issuance of both Common and Preferred Share under the terms of our Articles of Incorporation may cause dilution. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors establishes the terms, preference, rights and restrictions of the preferred stock and its decisions in this regard could discourage other persons from attempting to acquire control and thereby insulate incumbent management. It could be the case that the existence of corporate devices that would inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could negatively affect the market value of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 