Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The Company faces a variety of risks that are inherent in its business, including interest rate, credit, liquidity, capital, price/market, transaction/operation, compliance/legal, strategic and reputation. Following is a discussion of these risk factors. While the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or other factors discussed elsewhere in this report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the mere existence of risk is not necessarily reason for concern. However, the following risks could cause actual results to materially differ from those discussed in any forward-looking statement. New lines of business or new products and services may subject the Company to additional risks. From time to time, the Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products or services within existing lines of business. There can be substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products or services, the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company and the Bank are subject to Regulatory Agreements and Orders that restrict the Company from taking certain actions. On December 18, 2009, the Company and the Bank entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Illinois Department of Financial & Professional Regulation (“IDFPR”). The Agreement describes commitments made by the Company and the Bank to address and strengthen banking practices relating to credit risk management practices; improving loan underwriting and loan administration; improving asset quality by enhancing the Bank’s position on problem loans through repayment, additional collateral or other means; reviewing and revising as necessary the Bank’s allowance for loan and lease losses policy; maintaining sufficient capital at the Company and the Bank, implementing an earnings plan and comprehensive budget to improve and sustain the Bank’s earnings; and improving the Bank’s liquidity position and funds management practices. The Bank has implemented enhancements to its processes to address the matters identified by the Federal Reserve-Chicago and the IDFPR. The Company is in compliance with all the requirements specified in the agreement except for the capital plan. Management continues to develop and execute on the capital plan. In the meantime, the Agreement results in the Bank’s ineligibility for certain actions and expedited approvals without the prior written consent and approval of the Federal Reserve-Chicago and the IDFPR. These prohibited actions include, among other things, the Bank paying dividends to the Company, the Company paying dividends on its common or preferred stock, distributions of interest or principal on subordinated debentures or Trust Preferred securities, the Company increasing its debt level and the Company redeeming or repurchasing any shares of its stock. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon net interest income. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. 13. Centrue Financial Corporation Part I (Table Amounts In Thousands, Except Share Data) Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company’s interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on the Company’s balance sheet. See Part II sections “Net Interest Income” and “Interest Rate Risk” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for further discussion related to the Company’s management of interest rate risk. The Company and the Bank may not be able to maintain adequate capital levels. Maintaining sufficient capital serves as a buffer against potential credit and other losses that the Company may encounter during difficult times. There are five levels of capital defined by regulation: “well-capitalized”, “adequately capitalized”, “undercapitalized”, “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized”. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank is considered “well-capitalized”. Capital risk includes the potential effect on the Company’s reputation as well as certain other potential consequences should the capital level fall below adequately capitalized. We incurred net losses for 2009 through 2011 and cannot make any assurances that we will not incur further losses. We incurred a net loss of $10.6 million, $65.8 million and $38.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, due to high levels of provision for loan losses, deferred tax valuation allowance, security impairments, and goodwill impairment. We cannot provide any assurances that we will not incur future losses, especially in light of economic conditions that continue to adversely affect our borrowers. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, our nonperforming loans (which consist of non-accrual loans, troubled debt restructures and loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing loans) totaled $45.8 million and $70.0 million, or 7.87% and 9.70% of our loan portfolio, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, our nonperforming assets (which include non-performing loans plus other real estate owned) were $75.5 million and $95.6 million, or 7.80% and 8.65% of total assets, respectively. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. While we pay interest expense to fund nonperforming assets, we do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income and returns on assets and equity, and our loan administration costs increase and our efficiency ratio is adversely affected. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the collateral to its then-fair market value, which, when compared to the value of the loan, may result in a loss. These nonperforming loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. The resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant time commitments from management, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There is no assurance that we will not experience further increases in non-performing loans in the future, or that our nonperforming assets will not result in further losses in the future. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. Managing the Company’s allowance for loan losses is based upon, among other things, (1) historical experience, (2) an evaluation of local and national economic conditions, (3) regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality, (4) current trends regarding the volume and severity of past due and problem loans, (5) the existence and effect of concentrations of credit, and (6) results of regulatory examinations. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the respective loan portfolios. Although the Company believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that such allowance will prove sufficient to cover future losses. Future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions change or adverse developments arise with respect to nonperforming or performing loans or if regulatory supervision changes. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a material decrease in the Company’s net income, and possibly its capital, among other adverse consequences. 14. Centrue Financial Corporation Part I (Table Amounts In Thousands, Except Share Data) We are subject to lending risk. As of December 31, 2011 approximately 74.38% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial, agricultural production and agricultural real estate, construction, land and development, and commercial real estate loans (collectively, “commercial loans”). Commercial loans are generally viewed as having more inherent risk of default than residential mortgage loans or retail loans. In addition, the commercial loan balance per borrower is typically larger than that for residential mortgage loans and retail loans, inferring higher potential losses on an individual loan basis. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a number of commercial loans with large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See Part II “Loans” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for further discussion of credit risks related to different loan types. We are subject to economic conditions of our geographic market. The Company’s success depends to a large degree on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets served by the Bank in the States of Illinois and Missouri and, to a lesser extent, contiguous states. The local economic conditions on these areas have a significant impact on the generation of the Bank’s commercial, real estate commercial, and real estate construction loans; the ability of borrowers to repay these loans; and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of the counties in which we operate could also negatively impact the financial results of the Company’s operations and have a negative effect on its profitability. For example, these factors could lead to reduced interest income and an increase in the provision for loan losses. A portion of the loans in the Company’s portfolio is secured by real estate. Most of these loans are secured by properties located in the north central, east central, south central and St. Louis’s suburban east counties of Illinois, as well as, the St. Louis metro area of Missouri. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could adversely affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, supply and demand for properties and governmental rules or policies. We are subject to current levels of market volatility. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future growth or operating results may require the Company to raise additional capital but that capital may not be available or it may be dilutive. To the extent the Company’s future operating results erode capital or the Company elects to expand through loan growth or acquisition it may be required to raise capital. The Company’s ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on the Company’s financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, it will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on its growth and business. These could negatively impact the Company’s ability to operate or further expand its operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. 15. Centrue Financial Corporation Part I (Table Amounts In Thousands, Except Share Data) Real estate market volatility and future changes in disposition strategies could result in net proceeds that differ significantly from other real estate owned (“OREO”) fair value appraisals. The Company’s OREO portfolio consists of properties that it obtained through foreclosure in satisfaction of loans. OREO properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loans for which the properties served as collateral or estimated fair value, less estimated selling costs. Generally, in determining fair value an orderly disposition of the property is assumed, except where a different disposition strategy is expected. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of OREO property, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current is significantly shortened during periods of market volatility, as experienced during 2008 through 2011. In response to market conditions and other economic factors, the Company may utilize alternative sale strategies other than orderly dispositions as part of its OREO disposition strategy, such as immediate liquidation sales. In this event, as a result of the significant judgments required in estimating fair value and the variables involved in different methods of disposition, the net proceeds realized from such sales transactions could differ significantly from estimates used to determine the fair value of the Company’s OREO properties. We are subject to the risk of additional impairment charges relating to our securities portfolio. Our investment securities portfolio is our second largest earning asset. The value of our investment portfolio has been adversely affected by the unfavorable conditions of the capital markets in general as well as declines in values of the securities we hold. We have taken an aggregate of $20.9 million in charges against earnings since the fourth quarter of 2008 for impairments to the value of pooled collateralized debt obligations and certain collateralized mortgage obligations that we have concluded were “other than temporary.” The value of this segment is particularly sensitive to adverse developments affecting the banking industry and the financial condition or performance of the issuing banks – factors that we have no control over and as to which we may receive no advance warning, as was the case in the second quarter for one of these securities. Although we believe we have appropriately valued our securities portfolio, we cannot assure you that there will not be additional material impairment charges which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company is a bank holding company and its sources of funds are limited. The Company is a bank holding company, and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to stockholders of the Company is derived primarily from dividends received from the Bank. The Company’s ability to receive dividends or loans from its subsidiaries is restricted. Dividend payments by the Bank to the Company in the future will require generation of future earnings by the Bank and would require regulatory approval. Further, the Company’s right to participate in the assets of the Bank upon its liquidation, reorganization, or otherwise will be subject to the claims of the Bank’s creditors, including depositors, which will take priority except to the extent the Company may be a creditor with a recognized claim. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s subsidiary had deposits and other liabilities of $898 million. The Company could experience an unexpected inability to obtain needed liquidity. Liquidity measures the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs as they become due. The liquidity of a financial institution reflects its ability to meet loan requests, to accommodate possible outflows in deposits, and to take advantage of interest rate market opportunities. The ability of a financial institution to meet its current financial obligations is a function of its balance sheet structure, its ability to liquidate assets, and its access to alternative sources of funds. The Company seeks to ensure its funding needs are met by maintaining a level of liquidity through asset and liability management. If the Company becomes unable to obtain funds when needed, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 16. Centrue Financial Corporation Part I (Table Amounts In Thousands, Except Share Data) Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of its information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Bank’s deposit insurance premiums have increased in recent years which could have a material adverse effect on future earnings. Due to the impact on the FDIC insurance fund resulting from the recent increase in bank failures, the FDIC raised its insurance premiums and levied special assessments on all financial institutions. In addition, the FDIC uses a risk-based premium system that assesses higher rates on those institutions that pose greater risks to the deposit insurance fund. The FDIC places all financial institutions into one of four risk categories using a two-step process based first on the respective institution’s capital ratios and then on the CAMELS composite supervisory rating assigned to the institution by its primary federal regulator in connection with its periodic regulatory examinations. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank is “well capitalized” under regulatory guidelines. However, due to the low CAMELS rating of the Bank and other factors indicating higher risk, the FDIC will charge the Bank a higher premium for deposit insurance. The combination of the general increase in FDIC insurance rates and higher FDIC insurance rates resulting from the classification of the Bank in a higher risk category will have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Bank’s 2011 premiums decreased from 2010, due to a change in the calculation by the FDIC. However, the premium remains significantly higher than historical level due to the factors discussed above. Loss of or damage to the Company’s reputation may affect ongoing profitability. Reputation risk arises from the possibility that negative publicity regarding the Company’s business practices, whether true or not, will cause a decline in its customer base or result in costly litigation. In a service industry, such as the financial services industry, where product choices between companies are not always clearly distinguishable and which in many cases are interchangeable, a company’s reputation for honesty, fair-dealing and good corporate governance may be one of its most important assets. Loss of or damage to that reputation can have severe consequences. We are subject to current financial market risk. In 2010 and continuing in 2011, governments, regulators and central banks in the United States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. The EESA authorizes the U. S. Treasury to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions and their holding companies, under TARP. The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the United States banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Under the Capital Purchase Program, which the Company participated in, the U. S. Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until December 31, 2013 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. The ARRA, which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, includes a wide array of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our Common Stock. 17. Centrue Financial Corporation Part I (Table Amounts In Thousands, Except Share Data) The EESA and the ARRA followed, and have been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve Board, the United States Congress, the U. S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime mortgage meltdown that began in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the United States banking system. The EESA, the ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We operate in a highly regulated industry. The banking industry is heavily regulated. The banking business of the Company and the Bank are subject, in certain respects, to regulation by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the IDFPR and the SEC. The Company’s success depends not only on competitive factors but also on state and federal regulations affecting banks and bank holding companies. The regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, not stockholders or other security holders. The ultimate effect of recent and proposed changes to the regulation of the financial institution industry cannot be predicted. Regulations now affecting the Company may be modified at any time, and there is no assurance that such modifications, if any, will not adversely affect the Company’s business. We operate in an industry that is interrelated such that defaults by other larger institutions could adversely affect financial markets generally. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect our business. We operate in an industry that is significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. The Company’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U. S. economy and the local economies in which the Company operates, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. Deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values, and a decrease in demand for the Company’s products and services among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 18. Centrue Financial Corporation Part I (Table Amounts In Thousands, Except Share Data) Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 