D. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report, you should consider the following carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Limited Operating History The Company has no history of earnings and there are no known commercial quantities of mineral reserves on the Company’s property. Accordingly it is not possible to predict when, if at all, the Company will generate revenues or income from its operations. Exploration and Development is a Speculative Business Resource exploration and development is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but also from finding mineral deposits that, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by the Company may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond the control of the Company and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, the availability of mining equipment, and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection, the combination of which factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return of investment capital. All of the properties in which the Company has an interest or a right to acquire an interest are in the exploration stages only and are without a known body of commercial ore. Development of the subject mineral properties would follow only if favourable exploration results are obtained. The business of exploration for minerals and mining involves a high degree of risk. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. There is no assurance that the Company’s mineral exploration and development activities will result in any discoveries of commercial bodies of ore. The long-term profitability of the Company’s operations will in part be directly related to the costs and success of its exploration programs, which may be affected by a number of factors. Substantial expenditures are required to establish reserves through drilling and to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. Although substantial benefits may be derived from the discovery of a major mineralized deposit, no assurance can be given that minerals will be discovered in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. No Assurance of Production Mineral exploration is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks, and frequently does not lead to the discovery of commercial reserves of minerals. While the rewards can be substantial if commercial reserves of minerals are found, there can be no assurance that the Company's past or future exploration efforts will be successful, that any production there from will be obtained, or that any such production which is attempted will be profitable. Industry Specific Risks The exploration, development, and production of minerals are capital-intensive businesses, subject to the normal risks and capital expenditure requirements associated with mining operations, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. 13 Factors Beyond Company's Control Discovery, location and development of mineral deposits depend upon a number of factors, not the least of which is the technical skill of the exploration personnel involved. The exploration and development of mineral properties and the marketability of any minerals contained in such properties will also be affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Company. These factors include government regulation, high levels of volatility in market prices, availability of markets, availability of adequate transportation and refining facilities and the imposition of new or amendments to existing taxes and royalties. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted. Uninsured Risks The Company’s mining activities are subject to the risks normally inherent in mineral exploration, including but not limited to environmental hazards, industrial accident, flooding, periodic or seasonal interruptions due to climate and hazardous weather conditions, and unusual or unexpected formations. Such risks could result in damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delay in mining and possible legal liability. The Company may become subject to liability for pollution and other hazards against which it cannot insure or against which it may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or other reasons. The payment for such liabilities would reduce the funds available for exploration and mining activities and may have a material impact on the Company's financial position. Currency Exchange Rates The Company maintains its accounts in US dollar, Canadian dollar and Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”) denominations. The government of the People’s Republic of China (“PRC” or “China”) maintained the exchange rate between the RMB and the US dollar as a constant until July 2005 and thus exchange rates between the Canadian dollar and the RMB fluctuated in tandem with the changing exchange rates between the US and Canadian dollars. Since July 2005, the value of the RMB has been tied to a basket of currencies of China’s largest trading partners. Given that most of Minco Gold’s expenditures are currently and are anticipated to be incurred in Canadian dollars and RMB, Minco Gold is subject to foreign currency fluctuations which may materially affect its financial position and operating results. The Company does not currently have a formal hedging program to mitigate foreign currency exch ange risks. Competition The precious metal minerals exploration industry and mining business are intensely competitive. The Company competes with numerous other companies and individuals in the search for and the acquisition of attractive precious metal mining properties. Many of these competitors have substantially greater technical and financial resources than the Company. Competition could adversely affect the Company’s ability to acquire suitable properties or prospects in the future. Future Financing The Company has limited financial resources and has no assurance that additional funding will be available to it for further exploration and development of its projects. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be favourable. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of its projects with the possible loss of such properties. Uncertainty of Estimates Resource and reserve estimates of minerals are inherently imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from limited drilling, which may prove unreliable. Although estimated recoveries are based upon test results, actual recovery may vary with different rock types or formations in a way which could adversely affect operations. 14 Management and Directors The success of the Company is currently largely dependent on the performance of its officers. The loss of the services of these persons will have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business and prospects. There is no assurance the Company can maintain the services of its officers or other qualified personnel required to operate its business. Failure to do so could have a material adverse affect on the Company and its prospects. The Company has not purchased any “key-man” insurance with respect to any of its directors or officers to the date hereof. The loss of any key officer of the Company could have an adverse impact on the Company, its business and its financial position. Potential Conflicts of Interest None of the Company’s officers and directors devotes their full-time efforts to the Company. Certain members of the Company’s board and officers of the Company also serve as officers or directors of other companies involved in natural resource exploration and development. Consequently, there exists the possibility that those directors and officers may be in a position of conflict. In particular, Ken Z. Cai serves as Director and CEO in each of the Company, Minco Silver and Minco Base Metals. In addition, Paul Zhang serves as Chief Financial Officer and Vice President Finance and Dwayne Melrose serves as Vice President, Exploration with each of the Company, and Minco Silver and as a Director of Minco Base Metals. Any decision made by those directors and officers will be made in accordance with their duties and obligations to deal fairly and in good faith with the Company and such other companies. In addition, such directors and officers will declare, and refrain f rom voting on, any matter in which such directors or officers may have a conflict of interest. Nevertheless, there remains the possibility that the best interests of the Company will not be served because its directors and officers have other commitments. Fluctuating Mineral Prices Factors beyond the control of the Company may affect the marketability of metals discovered, if any. Metal prices have fluctuated widely, particularly in recent years. The effect of these factors cannot be predicted. The Mining Industry Is Highly Speculative The Company is engaged in the exploration for minerals which involves a high degree of geological, technical and economic uncertainty because of the inability to predict future mineral prices, as well as the difficulty of determining the extent of a mineral deposit and the feasibility of extracting it without the expenditure of considerable money. Penny Stock Rules May Make It More Difficult to Trade the Company’s Common Shares The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price, as defined, less than US$5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than US$5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The Company's securities may be covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors such as institutions with assets in excess of US$5,000,000 or an individual with net worth in excess of US$1,000,000 or annual income exceeding US$200,000 or US$300,000 jointly with his or her spouse. For transactions covered by this rule, the broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination for the purchase and receive the purchaser’s written agreement of the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company's se curities and also affect the ability of the Company's investors to sell their shares in the secondary market. 15 The Company is a Passive Foreign Investment Company for United State Federal Income Tax Purposes The Company believes that it is not a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for United States Federal income tax purposes because it does not earn 75% or more of its gross income from passive sources, or more than 50% of the value of its assets during the year is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. See Item 10.E. “Taxation - United States Tax Consequences - Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” Risks Related to Doing Business in China PRC Political and Economic Considerations The business operations of the Company will be located in, and the revenues of the Company derived from activities in, the PRC. Likewise, the Company’s operations in the PRC are currently conducted through and with the assistance of Minco China, a Chinese company. Accordingly, the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company could be significantly and adversely affected by economic, political and social changes in the PRC. The economy of the PRC has traditionally been a planned economy, subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the state, which set down national economic development goals. Since 1978, the PRC has been moving the economy from a planned economy to a more open, market-oriented system. The economic development of the PRC is following a model of market economy under socialism. Under this direction, it is expected that the PRC will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and that business development in the PRC will follow market forces and the rules of market economics. However, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. In addition, there is no guarantee that a major turnover of senior political decision makers will not occur, or that the existing economic policy of the PRC will not be changed. A change in policies by the PRC could adversely affect the Company’s interests in China by changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof, confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supplies, or the expropriation of private enterprises. In order to conduct exploration and development of mineral deposits in the PRC, resource companies are required to obtain licenses and permits from the relevant authorities in the PRC, including a business license which authorizes companies to carry on business in the PRC. The business license of Minco China is subject to an annual review process pursuant to which it must pass annual inspections of the Administration for Industry and Commerce in the PRC. As a result, if Minco China does not pass its annual review it will not be authorized to carry on business in the PRC which may adversely affect the Company’s interests in its properties. The Company believes that it and Minco China are operating in compliance with all applicable rules and regulations. The purpose set out in Minco China’s articles of association includes, among other things, the application of advances and appropriate exploration and mining technology and scientific methods to develop mine exploration and development software and technology, improve exploration precision and accuracy, and to reduce exploration risks. Minco China’s scope of business according to its articles of association includes, among others, the exploration of mineral deposits, development of exploration technology, and the development of software for mine exploration and development. However, Minco China’s approved business scope contained in its business licence does not clearly state that Minco China is approved to conduct exploration and mining business because Minco China has not obtained the approval from the Ministry of Commerce for its exploration and mining business. Minco China has applied to amend the scope of its business to more clearly i nclude mining exploration and development. Minco China’s application has been approved by the Beijing Metropolitan Department of Commerce and is subject to the final approval of the Ministry of Commerce. While Minco China expects that its business scope application will be approved, no guarantee can be given that the Ministry of Commerce approval will ultimately be obtained. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions there under, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of companies 16 engaged in mineral resource exploration and development, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on the Company and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. The Company’s various property interests and potential property rights in the PRC involve various Chinese state-sector entities, including the GGEDC and 757 Team, whose actions and priorities may be dictated by government policies, instead of purely commercial considerations. Additionally, companies (such as Minco China) with a foreign ownership component operating in the PRC may be required to work within a framework which is different to that imposed on domestic Chinese companies. The Chinese government is opening up opportunities for foreign investment in mining projects and this proc ess is expected to continue. However, if the Chinese government should reverse this trend and impose greater restrictions on foreign companies, the Company’s business and future earnings could be negatively affected. PRC Legal System and Enforcement Most of the material agreements to which the Company or its affiliates are party or will be party in the future with respect to mining assets in the PRC are expected to be governed by Chinese law and some may be with Chinese governmental entities. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protection available to the Company and its shareholders. The outcome of any litigation may be more uncertain than usual because: (i) the experience of the PRC judiciary is relatively limited, and (ii) the interpretation of PRC laws may be subject to policy changes reflecting domestic political changes. The laws that do exist are relatively recent and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the available legal protections. Even where adequate law exists in the PRC, it may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such law or to obtain enforcement of judgments by a court of another jurisdiction. The i nability to enforce or obtain a remedy under such agreements would have a material adverse impact on the Company. Many tax rules are not published in the PRC, and those that are published can be ambiguous and contradictory, leaving a considerable amount of discretion to local tax authorities. PRC currently offers tax and other preferential incentives to encourage foreign investment. However, the tax regime of the PRC is undergoing review and there is no assurance that such tax and other incentives will continue to be available. There is also no guarantee that the pursuit of economic reforms by the State will be consistent or effective and as a result, changes in the rate or method of taxation, reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions, and changes in state policies affecting the mining industry may have a negative effect on its operating results and financial condition. Environmental Considerations Although the PRC has enacted environmental protection legislation to regulate the mining industry, due to the very short history of this legislation, national and local environmental protection standards are still in the process of being formulated and implemented. The legislation provides for penalties and other liabilities for the violation of such standards and establishes, in certain circumstances, obligations to rehabilitate current and former facilities and locations where operations are being or have been conducted. The Company believes that there are no outstanding notices, orders or directives from central or local environmental protection agencies or local government authorities alleging any breach of national or local environmental quality standards by Minco China, GGB, the 757 Team or any other party in respect of the Company’s properties in China. Although the Company intends to fully comply with all environmental regulations, there is a risk that p ermission to conduct exploration and development activities could be withdrawn temporarily or permanently where there is evidence of serious breaches of such standards. 17 Reliability of Information While the information contained herein regarding the PRC has been obtained from a variety of sources, including government and private publications, independent verification of this information is not available and there can be no assurance that the sources from which it is taken or on which it is based are wholly reliable. Ownership and Regulation of Mineral Resources is subject to extensive government regulation Ownership of land in China remains with the State, and governments at the national, regional and local levels, are extensively involved in the regulation of exploration and mining activities. Transfers of exploration and mining rights are also subject to governmental approval. Failure or delays in obtaining necessary approvals could have a materially adverse affect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Nearly all mining projects in the PRC require government approval. There can be no certainty that any such approvals will be granted (directly or indirectly) to Minco China in a timely manner, or at all. 18 