Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are many risk factors that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. You should carefully consider the risks below before making an investment decision. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Global market and economic conditions may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Current economic conditions remain uncertain. Challenging economic times make it extremely difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause our customers to slow spending on our products and services, which could delay and lengthen sales cycles. Continued concerns about the possible systemic impact of inflation or deflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, and added concerns fueled by the Federal government deficits and interventions in the U.S. financial and credit markets have contributed to instability and diminished long-term expectations for the U.S. and global economy. If the conditions in the general economy and the markets in which we operate worsen from present levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have a number of customers that are Federal, state and local governmental agencies and private and public educational organizations. These agencies and organizations are experiencing revenue shortfalls and spending cutbacks that may cause significant reductions in their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their spending on information technology. A significant portion of our customers are based in Texas. Until mid-2005 we were primarily a Texas-based organization and the majority of our customers were in Texas. While we are less dependent upon Texas customers now than we were a few years ago, a significant portion of our customers are still based in Texas. Therefore, our revenue and hence our profitability would be materially affected by a downturn in economic conditions in Texas, in addition to any general economic downturn in the United States. If demand for the products and services we provide to customers in Texas decreases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We have a history of losses and may continue to incur losses. During 2009 we incurred a net loss from continuing operations of $4,295, including a $2,380 non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill. During 2008, we incurred a net loss from continuing operations of $12,785, including a total non-cash charge of $13,071 noncash charge for goodwill, intangible asset, and property and equipment impairments. Although profitable in 2010, we cannot assure you that we remain profitable in upcoming quarters or years. In order to maintain profitability, we will have to maintain or increase our operating margin, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to do so. If we are unable to increase revenue, if our gross margins decrease, or if we are unable to control our operating expenses, our business could produce losses. Whether we are able to remain profitable in the future will depend on many factors, but primarily upon the commercial acceptance of the technologies and product lines that we promote the use of, including products developed and marketed by Cisco. Our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. As of December 31, 2010, we had $13,532 of goodwill and $1,015 of intangible assets after recognizing impairment charges of $2,560, $2,380, and $13,071 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Goodwill and intangible assets represent approximately 13% of our total assets as of December 31, 2010. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America require that we review the value of goodwill on at least an annual basis or when indicators of impairment arise to determine whether the recorded value has been impaired and should be reduced. In the event that our goodwill or long-lived assets are further impaired in the future, any impairment charge could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations, and could harm the trading price of our common stock. Our success depends on maintaining our relationship with Cisco and other key vendors. The majority of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was derived from or dependent upon the sale of Cisco products and related services. We anticipate that these products and related services will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. We have a contract with Cisco to purchase the products that we resell, and we purchase substantially all of our Cisco products directly from Cisco. Cisco can terminate this agreement on relatively short notice. Cisco has designated us an authorized reseller and we receive certain benefits from this designation, including special pricing and payment terms. We have in the past, and may in the future, purchase Cisco-centric products from other sources. When we purchase Cisco-centric products from sources other than Cisco, the prices are typically higher and the payment terms are not as favorable. Accordingly, if we are unable to purchase directly from Cisco and maintain our status as an authorized reseller of Cisco network products, our business could be significantly harmed. In addition, we are also dependent upon maintaining our relationship with a number of other key vendors, including NetApp and VMware. If we are unable to purchase products from any of our key vendors, including Cisco, NetApp and VMware, or from other sources on terms that are comparable to the terms we currently receive, our business would be harmed and our operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. 13 Our success depends on a broad market acceptance of Cisco-centric IP telephony and network infrastructure products. In the area of IP telephony solutions we offer only Cisco-centric solutions. Cisco is our main vendor and represents about 80% of our product sales. We believe that Cisco is a substantial player in the IP telephony marketplace and will continue to offer competitive, state-of-the-art technology. However, we cannot assure you that the Cisco-centric IP telephony products we offer will continue to obtain broad market acceptance. Competition, technological advances and other factors could reduce demand for, or market acceptance of, the Cisco-centric IP telephony products and services we offer. In addition, new products, applications or services may be developed that are better adapted to changing technology or customer demands and thus could render our Cisco-centric products and services unmarketable or obsolete. To compete successfully, the Cisco-centric IP telephony products we offer must achieve broad market acceptance and we must continually enhance our related software and customer services in a timely and cost- effective manner. If the Cisco-centric IP telephony products we offer fail to achieve broad market acceptance, or if we do not adapt our existing services to customer demands or evolving industry standards, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be significantly harmed. Our profitability depends on Cisco product pricing and incentive programs. Our annual and quarterly gross profits and gross margins on product sales are materially affected by Cisco product pricing and incentive programs. These incentive programs currently enable us to qualify for cash rebates or product pricing discounts and are generally earned based on sales volumes of particular Cisco products and customer satisfaction levels. We recognized vendor incentives as a reduction of cost of sales amounting to $18,169, $13,345, and $10,118 representing 5.8%, 5.9%, and 3.9% of total revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. From time to time Cisco changes the criteria upon which qualification for these incentives is based, and there is no assurance that we will continue to meet the program qualifications. Cisco is under no obligation to continue these incentive programs. In addition, we expect our future profitability to be impacted not only by pricing and incentive programs of Cisco, but also by the pricing and incentive programs of NetApp, VMware and other key vendors. Our success depends on broad market acceptance of virtualization technology, and in particular the virtualization technology of VMware. The market for virtualization software is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and strong customer demand for new products, applications and services. As is typical of a new and rapidly evolving industry, the demand for, and market acceptance of virtualization technology is highly uncertain. We cannot assure you that the use of virtualization technology will be widespread. Our business depends on the level of capital spending by enterprises for the technology infrastructure products and services we offer. As a supplier of technology infrastructure solutions, our business depends on the level of capital spending for such solutions by enterprise organizations in our markets. We believe that an enterprise’s investment in technology infrastructure and related services depends largely on general economic conditions that can vary significantly as a result of changing conditions in the economy as a whole. The market for the solutions we provide may continue to grow at a modest rate or not at all, or may decrease. If our customers decrease their level of spending, our revenue and operating results would likely be adversely affected. To the extent that customers continue to delay moving forward with projects because of actual or perceived economic uncertainty and reduced credit availability, our revenue and profitability will be negatively impacted. Our strategy contemplates geographic expansion, which we may be unable to achieve and which is subject to numerous uncertainties. A component of our strategy is to become one of the leading national providers of the technology infrastructure solutions we provide. To achieve this objective, we must either acquire existing businesses or hire qualified staff in other locations throughout the country and open new offices. Identifying and acquiring existing businesses is a time-consuming process and is subject to numerous risks. Qualified personnel are in demand, and we expect the demand to increase as the market for the technology infrastructure solutions that we provide grows. We will also likely face competition from our competitors and from local and regional competitors in the markets we attempt to enter. A rapid expansion in the size and geographical scope of our business is likely to introduce management challenges that may be difficult to overcome. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding our operations or achieving our goal of becoming a national provider of technology infrastructure solutions. An unsuccessful expansion effort would consume capital and human resources without achieving the desired benefit and would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 We may require financing to achieve expansion of our business operations, and failure to obtain financing may prevent us from carrying out our expansion plans. We may need additional capital to grow our business. Our business plan calls for the expansion of sales of our technology infrastructure solutions to enterprises in geographical markets where we currently do not operate, including expansion through acquisitions. If we do not have adequate capital or are not able to raise the capital to fund our business objectives, we may have to delay the implementation of our business plan. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing if required, or, if financing is available, there is no assurance that the terms would be favorable to existing stockholders. Our ability to obtain financing is subject to a number of factors, including general market conditions, investor acceptance of our business plan, our operating performance and financial condition, and investor sentiment. These factors may affect the timing, amount, terms or conditions of additional financing available to us. We require access to significant working capital and vendor credit to fund our day-to-day operations. Our failure to comply with the financial and other covenants under our working capital facility could lead to a termination of the agreement and an acceleration of our outstanding debt. We require access to significant working capital and vendor credit to fund our day-to-day operations. Our credit facility with Castle Pines contains a number of financial and other covenants. We have had to obtain several covenant waivers over the past year related to our failure to timely file reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A breach of these financial or other covenants, unless waived, would be a default under the credit facility. Upon an event of default, Castle Pines may terminate the credit facility and/or declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facility immediately due and payable. The acceleration of our debt could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, the amount of working capital available to us under the credit facility is dependent upon the amount and quality of our accounts receivable. A significant default or payment delays of our accounts receivable could materially adversely affect our borrowing base and our access to sufficient working capital, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there is a risk that Castle Pines Capital may be unable to continue the financing relationship with us due to unforeseen future credit market problems or changes in their credit granting criteria. We may be unable to manage our growth effectively, which may harm our business. The ability to operate our business in a rapidly evolving market requires effective planning and management. Our efforts to grow including by acquisition, have placed, and are expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our personnel, management systems, infrastructure and other resources. We have had mixed results regarding our ability to efficiently and cost effectively manage our growth and demonstrate leverage in our business model. Our ability to manage future growth effectively will require us to improve our business and financial processes. If we are unable to adequately manage our growth our operations could be adversely affected and our growth could be impaired. Our operating results have historically been volatile, and may continue to be volatile, particularly from quarter to quarter. We sell products and services that may be bundled together as one or more solutions. Revenue recognition requirements for our offerings are complex and may require deferral of revenue recognition until all of our delivery commitments have been completed. During quarterly periods in which we realize lower levels of revenue, our profitability may be negatively impacted. Our quarterly operating results have historically depended on, and may fluctuate in the future as a result of, many factors including: · Volume and timing of orders received during the quarter; · Timing of revenue recognition due to contract terms; · Gross margin fluctuations associated with the mix of products sold; · Patterns of capital spending by enterprises; · The timing of new product announcements and releases; · The cost and effect of acquisitions; · The amount and timing of sales incentives from our key vendors we may receive in any particular quarter, particularly Cisco, which can vary substantially; · The availability and cost of products and components from our suppliers; and · Credit availability. As a result of these and other factors, we have historically experienced, and may continue to experience, fluctuations in sales and operating results. 15 We have many competitors and expect new competitors to enter our market, which could increase price competition and may affect the amount of business available to us and the prices that we can charge for our products and services. The markets for all of the products and services we offer are extremely competitive and subject to rapid change. Growth in demand for many of the technology infrastructure products we provide has been predicted by various industry analysts, and we therefore expect competition to increase as existing competitors enhance and expand their products and services and as new participants enter the market. A rapid increase in competition could negatively affect the amount of business that we obtain and the prices that we are able to charge. Additionally, many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial resources, customer support, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and more established relationships than we do. We cannot be sure that we will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully. Compared to us, our competitors may be able to: · Develop and expand their products and services more quickly; · Adapt faster to new or emerging technologies and changing customer needs; · Take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily; · Negotiate more favorable agreements with vendors; · Devote greater resources to marketing and selling their products; and · Address customer service issues more effectively. Some of our competitors may also be able to increase their market share by providing customers with additional benefits or by reducing their prices. We cannot be sure that we will be able to match price reductions by our competitors. In addition, our competitors may form strategic relationships with each other to better compete with us. These relationships may take the form of strategic investments, joint-marketing agreements, licenses or other contractual arrangements that could increase our competitors’ ability to serve customers. A material and/or rapid increase in competition would likely have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Business acquisitions, dispositions or joint ventures entail numerous risks and may disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or distract management attention. As part of our business strategy, we have completed acquisitions and plan to continue to consider acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer products, services and technologies complementary to ours. Any acquisition could materially adversely affect our operating results and/or the price of our securities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, some of which we have experienced and may continue to experience, including: · Unanticipated costs and liabilities · Difficulty of integrating the operations, products and personnel of the acquired business; · Difficulty retaining key personnel of the acquired business; · Difficulty retaining customers of the acquired businesses; · Difficulties in managing the financial and strategic position of acquired or developed products, services and technologies; · Difficulties in maintaining customer relationships, in particular where a substantial portion of the target’s sales were derived from products that compete with products that we currently offer; · The diversion of management’s attention from the core business; · Inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; and · Damage to relationships with acquired employees and customers as a result of integration of the acquired business. To the extent that shares of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock are issued in connection with any future acquisitions, dilution to our existing stockholders will result and our earnings per share may suffer. Any future acquisitions may not generate the anticipated level of revenue and earnings or provide any benefit to our business, and we may not achieve a satisfactory return on our investment in any acquired businesses. We may not be able to hire and retain highly skilled technical employees, which could affect our ability to compete effectively and could adversely affect our operating results. We depend on highly skilled technical personnel to provide the services we sell to our customers. To succeed, we must hire and retain employees who are highly skilled in rapidly changing communications and data center technologies. In particular, as we implement our strategy of focusing on technology infrastructure solutions, we will need to: · Hire more employees with experience providing technology infrastructure solutions; and · Retrain our current personnel to sell and support the technology infrastructure solutions we currently sell and that we intend to market in the future. 16 Individuals who can perform the services we need to provide our products and services are scarce. Because the competition for qualified employees in our industry is intense, hiring and retaining qualified employees is both time-consuming and expensive. We may not be able to hire enough qualified personnel to meet our needs as our business grows or to retain the employees we currently have. Our inability to hire and retain the individuals we need could hinder our ability to sell our existing products, systems, software or services or to develop and sell new ones. If we are not able to attract and retain qualified employees, we will not be able to successfully implement our business plan and our business will be harmed. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to operate our business. Although we have independent, redundant, and primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Almost 20% of our stock is controlled by our executive chairman, who has the ability to substantially influence the election of directors and other matters submitted to stockholders. James H. Long beneficially owns 1,896,356 shares of our common stock, which represent approximately 17.1% of our shares outstanding and beneficially owned shares as of May 16, 2011. As a result, he has and is expected to continue to have the ability to significantly influence the nomination and the election of our board of directors and the outcome of all other issues submitted to our stockholders. The interests of this principal stockholder may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and he may act in a manner that advances his best interests and not those of other stockholders. One consequence to this substantial influence or control is that it may be difficult for investors to add or remove management of the company and to stop the addition or removal of management of the Company. It could also deter unsolicited takeovers, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Nasdaq has recently delisted our common shares from quotation on its exchange. The Nasdaq Stock Market (the “NASDAQ”) has recently delisted our common shares from quotation on its exchange for failure to continue to meet its continued listing requirements. The delisting of our common shares from NASDAQ could have material adverse effects by, among other things: · reducing the liquidity and market price of our common shares; · reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common shares, thereby further restricting our ability to obtain equity financing; · reducing the amount of news and analyst coverage of the Company; and · reducing our ability to retain, attract and motivate our directors, officers and employees. Our stock price may be subject to substantial volatility, and the value of your investment may decline. Our common stock is traded on OTC Bulletin Board, and trading volume may be limited or sporadic. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial volatility. During 2010, our common stock traded between $4.25 and $6.78 per share, on volume ranging from approximately 0 to 262,600 shares per day. As a result of the relatively low and inconsistent volume of trading and the trading price volatility, the current price for our common stock is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our fair market value. The price at which our common stock will trade may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the number of shares available for sale in the market, quarterly variations in our operating results, new products or services by us or competitors, regulatory investigations or determinations, acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors, recruitment or departures of key personnel, the gain or loss of significant customers, changes in the estimates of our operating performance, actual or threatened litigation, market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. Volatility in the price of our common stock may depress the trading price of the common stock our common stock. The risk of volatility and depressed prices of our common stock also applies to warrant holders who receive shares of common stock upon conversion. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: 17 · Announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors; · Current events affecting the political, economic and social situation in the United States and other countries where we operate; · Trends in our industry and the markets in which we operate; · Changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; · Acquisitions and financings by us or our competitors; · The gain or loss of a significant customer; · Quarterly variations in operating results; · The operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may consider to be comparable; and · Purchases or sales of blocks of our securities. Furthermore, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. Limitations and constraints associated with buying and selling our stock. The trading of our Common Stock on the OTC Bulletin Board rather than on NASDAQ may reduce the price of our Common Stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our Common Stock, our Common Stock is more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the market’s perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. Additionally, because of state securities or “blue sky” laws, we cannot avail our self of federal preemption (which adds substantial compliance costs to securities issuances, including pursuant to employee option plans, stock purchase plans and private or public offerings of securities), and purchasers of shares of our Common Stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Our ability to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future, may also be materially and adversely affected by the fact that our securities will not be traded on NASDAQ. The fact that our Common Stock will not be traded on NASDAQ could also have other adverse effects on us in addition to the foregoing, including, without limitation, the loss of confidence in us by current and prospective suppliers, customers, employees and others with whom we have or may seek to initiate business relationships. Future issuances of common stock and hedging activities may depress the trading price of our common stock. Any future issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon exercise of outstanding warrants, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock. As of April 30, 2011, we had outstanding approximately 1.2 million options and warrants to acquire our common stock at prices between $0.82 and $12.63 per share. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, in connection with acquisitions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly if we or our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares, if we issue a large number of shares of stock in connection with future financing activities, acquisitions or otherwise, or due to the perception that such sales could occur. These factors also could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, charter documents and Delaware law could discourage a change in control, or an acquisition of us by a third party, even if the acquisition would be favorable to you, thereby and adversely affect existing stockholders Our certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Delaware law also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Item 1B. Not applicable. 18 