Item 1A. Risk Factors Operating Factors The leaf tobacco industry is highly competitive, and we are heavily reliant on a few large customers. We are one of two major independent global competitors in the highly competitive leaf tobacco industry, both of whom are reliant upon a few large customers. The loss of one of those large customers or a significant decrease in their respective demand for our products or services could significantly decrease our sales of products or services, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The competition among leaf tobacco merchants is based on the ability to meet customer specifications in the buying, processing, and financing of tobacco, as well as the price charged for products and services. However, because we, like our competitors, rely upon a few significant customers, the consolidation or failure of any of these large or significant customers could contribute to a significant decrease in our sales of products and services. 7 Table of Contents We are seeing an increase in competition from small competitors in some of the markets where we conduct business. These small competitors typically have lower overhead requirements. They provide little or no support to farmers. Due to their lower cost structures, they often can offer a price on products that is lower than our price. If our customers shift significant purchases to these smaller competitors, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Our financial results can be significantly affected by changes in the balance of supply and demand for leaf tobacco. Because we are a leaf tobacco merchant, our financial results can be significantly affected by changes in the overall balance of worldwide supply and demand for leaf tobacco. The demand for tobacco, which is based upon customers’ expectations of their future requirements, can change from time to time depending upon internal and external factors affecting the demand for their products. Our customers’ expectations, and thus their demand for leaf tobacco, are influenced by a number of factors, including: • trends in the global consumption of cigarettes, • trends in sales of cigars and other tobacco products, and • levels of competition among our customers. The total supply of tobacco at any given time is a function of current tobacco production, inventories held by manufacturers, and the volumes of uncommitted stocks of processed tobacco from prior years’ production. Production of tobacco in a given year may be significantly affected by such factors as: • the amount of tobacco planted by farmers throughout the world, • weather and natural disasters, and • crop disease. Any significant change in these factors could cause a material imbalance in the supply and demand for tobacco, which would affect our results of operations. Our financial results will vary according to growing conditions, customer requirements, and other factors. These factors also reduce the ability to gauge our performance and increase the risk of an investment in Universal. Our financial results, particularly the quarterly financial results, may be significantly affected by fluctuations in tobacco growing seasons and crop sizes. The cultivation of tobacco is dependent upon a number of factors, including weather and other natural events, and our processing schedule and results of operations can be significantly altered by these factors. Further, the timing and unpredictability of customer orders and shipments may require us to keep tobacco in inventory, increase our risk, and result in variations in quarterly and annual financial results. We base sales recognition on the passage of ownership, usually with shipment of product. Since individual shipments may represent significant amounts of revenue, our quarterly and annual financial results may vary significantly depending on the needs and shipping instructions of our customers. These fluctuations result in varying volumes and sales in given periods, which also reduce the comparability of financial results for different periods or for the same periods in different years. Major shifts in customer requirements for tobacco supply may significantly affect our operating results. If our customers significantly alter their requirements for tobacco volumes from certain regions, we may have to change our production facilities and alter our fixed asset base in certain origins. Permanent or long-term reduction in demand for tobacco from origins where we have operations may trigger restructuring and impairment charges. We may also need to make significant capital investments in other regions to develop the needed infrastructure to meet customer supply requirements. 8 Table of Contents In areas where we purchase leaf tobacco directly from farmers, we bear the risk that the tobacco we receive will not meet quality and quantity requirements. When we contract directly with tobacco farmers or tobacco farmer cooperatives, which is the method we use to purchase tobacco in most countries, we bear the risk that the tobacco delivered may not meet customer quality and quantity requirements. If the tobacco does not meet such market requirements, we may not be able to meet all of our customers’ orders, which would have an adverse effect on profitability and results of operations. Because in a contract market we buy all of the farmers’ production which encompasses many styles and customer orders, we also have a risk that not all of that production will be readily marketable. In addition, in many foreign countries, when we purchase tobacco directly from farmers, we provide them with financing. Unless we receive marketable tobacco that meets the quality and quantity specifications of our customers, we bear the risk that we will not be able to fully recover our crop advances or recover them in a reasonable period of time. Although we purchase a portion of our leaf tobacco through public auction, as well as privately-negotiated contract purchases, several countries where auction markets are used today may be moving toward direct purchasing, thus increasing the areas subject to this risk. Weather and other conditions can affect the marketability of our products. Tobacco is subject to vagaries of the weather and the environment that can, in some cases, change the quality or size of the crops. If a weather event is particularly severe, such as a major drought or hurricane, the affected crop could be destroyed or damaged to an extent that it would be less desirable to manufacturers, which would result in a reduction in revenues. If such an event is also widespread, it could affect our ability to acquire the quantity of products required by our customers. In addition, other items can affect the marketability of tobacco, including, among other things, the presence of: • foreign matter, • genetically modified organisms, and • excess residues of pesticides, fungicides, and herbicides. A significant event impacting the condition or quality of a large amount of any of the crops that we buy could make it difficult for us to sell these products or to fill customers’ orders. Regulatory and Governmental Factors Government efforts to reduce tobacco consumption could have a significant impact on the businesses of our customers, which would, in turn, affect our results of operations. The U.S. federal government and certain state and local governments have taken or proposed actions that may have the effect of reducing U.S. consumption of tobacco products and indirectly reducing demand for our products and services. These activities have included: • the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s decision to classify environmental tobacco smoke as a “Group A” (known human) carcinogen, • restrictions on the use of tobacco products in public places and places of employment, • proposals to have the U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulate nicotine as a drug and sharply restrict tobacco product advertising and promotion, • proposals to increase the federal, state, and local excise taxes on cigarettes and other tobacco products, • federal and state government litigation and other actions, including the creation of the Master Settlement Agreement (“MSA”) in the late 1990s, to recoup monies from tobacco product manufacturers to pay for the health care costs associated with tobacco product usage and environmental tobacco smoke exposure, • efforts by states’ attorneys general to enforce and/or amend certain sections of the MSA, and • the policy of the U.S. government to link certain federal grants to the enforcement of state laws restricting the sale of tobacco products. 9 Table of Contents Numerous other legislative and regulatory anti-smoking measures have been proposed at the federal, state, and local levels. Excluding the effect of tobacco contained in cigarettes imported into the United States, we estimate that historically between 12% and 15% of the flue-cured and burley tobaccos that we handle worldwide are ultimately consumed in the United States. Flue-cured and burley tobacco operations provide 86% of our revenues. A number of foreign governments and global non-government organizations also have taken or proposed steps to restrict or prohibit tobacco product advertising and promotion, to increase taxes on tobacco products, and to discourage tobacco product consumption. A number of such measures are included in the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (“FCTC”), which was negotiated and promoted globally under the auspices of the World Health Organization (“WHO”). We cannot predict the extent to which the efforts of governments or non-governmental agencies to reduce tobacco consumption might affect the business of our primary customers. However, a significant decrease in worldwide tobacco consumption brought about by existing or future governmental laws and regulations would reduce demand for our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Government actions can have a significant effect on the sourcing of tobacco. If some of the current efforts are successful, we could have difficulty obtaining sufficient tobacco to provide for our customers’ requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our performance and results of operations. Various proposals to reform U.S. immigration laws could impact the number of legal temporary agricultural workers entering the United States to work on tobacco producing farms. In addition, the WHO, through the FCTC, has created a formal study group to identify and assess crop diversification initiatives and alternatives to leaf tobacco growing in countries whose economies depend upon tobacco production. The study group began its work in February 2007. If the amount of legal temporary agricultural workers allowed into the United States were further restricted or if certain countries were to partner with the FCTC study group and seek to eliminate or significantly reduce leaf tobacco production, we could encounter difficulty in sourcing leaf tobacco to fill customer requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Because we conduct a significant portion of our operations internationally, political uncertainties in certain countries could have an adverse effect on our performance and results of operations. Our international operations are subject to uncertainties and risks relating to the political stability of certain foreign governments, principally in developing countries and emerging markets, and to the effects of changes in the trade policies and economic regulations of foreign governments. These uncertainties and risks, which include, among other factors, undeveloped or antiquated commercial law and the expropriation or nationalization of assets, may adversely impact our ability to effectively manage our operations in those countries. For example, in the past, we have experienced significant year-to-year fluctuations in earnings due to changes in the Brazilian government’s economic policies, and government actions in Zimbabwe have reduced the tobacco crop there, causing us to shift sourcing of tobacco to other countries. Over the last two years, market disruptions in Malawi have made operations there less certain. We have substantial capital investments in South America and Africa, and the performance of our operations in those regions can materially affect our earnings from tobacco operations. If the political situation in any of the countries where we conduct business were to deteriorate significantly, our ability to recover assets located there could be impaired. To the extent that we do not replace any lost volumes of tobacco with tobacco from other sources, or we incur increased costs related to such replacement, our results of operations would suffer. Changes in tax laws in the countries where we do business may adversely affect our results of operations. Through our subsidiaries, we are subject to the tax laws of many jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws can affect our earnings, as can the resolution of various pending and contested tax issues. For example, changes in tax law in the state of Rio Grande do Sul in Brazil, which limit the amount of tax credits generated on interstate sales of tobacco in Brazil increased our cost of doing business in that country in fiscal years 2005 and 2006. See Note 13 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information on this tax. 10 Table of Contents Financial Factors Failure of our customers or farmers to repay extensions of credit could materially impact our results of operations. We extend credit to both farmers and customers. A significant delay in payment or a significant bad debt provision related to amounts due could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, crop advances to farmers are generally secured by the farmers’ agreement to deliver green tobacco. In the event of crop failure or permanent reductions in crop sizes, full recovery of advances may never be realized, or otherwise could be delayed until future crops are delivered. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our results of operations. We account for most of our tobacco operations using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency. The international tobacco trade generally is conducted in U.S. dollars. This limits foreign exchange risk to that which is related to production costs, overhead, and income taxes in the source country. In certain tobacco markets that are primarily domestic, we use the local currency as the functional currency. Examples of these domestic markets are Hungary and Poland. In these domestic markets, reported earnings are affected by the translation of the local currency into the U.S. dollar. See also “Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” Our purchases of tobacco are often made in local currency, and we also provide farmer advances that are denominated in the local currency. Currency gains or losses on those advances, which are period costs, are usually offset by decreases or increases in the cost of tobacco, which is priced in the local currency. However, the effects of differences in the cost of tobacco are generally not realized until the tobacco is sold, which often occurs in a subsequent quarter or fiscal year. The difference in timing could affect our profitability in a given quarter or fiscal year. Changes in exchange rates can also make a particular crop more or less expensive in U.S. dollar terms. If a particular crop is viewed as expensive in U.S. dollar terms, it may be less attractive in the world market. This could negatively affect the profitability of such crop and our results of operations. Because there is no forward foreign exchange market in many of the major countries where we source tobacco, we often manage our foreign exchange risk by matching funding for inventory purchases with the currency of sale and by minimizing our net investment in these countries. To the extent that we have net monetary assets or liabilities in local currency, we may have currency remeasurement gains or losses that will affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates may affect our results of operations. In our business, customers usually pre-finance purchases or pay market rates of interest for inventory purchased on order. We borrow long-term debt to reduce liquidity issues. Through hedging agreements, we swap the interest rates on our existing fixed-rate debt to floating market interest rates to better match the interest rates that we charge our customers. To the extent we are unable to match these interest rates, a decrease in short-term interest rates could increase our net financing costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 11 Table of Contents 