ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section discusses factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. See “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Forward-Looking Statements.” 10 We depend heavily on our principal customers Our ability to maintain close, mutually beneficial relationships with our two largest customers, Whole Foods Market and Wild Oats Markets, is an important element to our continued growth. In October 2006, we announced a seven-year distribution agreement with Whole Foods Market, which commenced on September 26, 2006, under which we will continue to serve as the primary U.S. distributor to Whole Foods Market in the regions where we previously served. In January 2007, we expanded our Whole Foods Market relationship in the Southern Pacific region of the United States. Whole Foods Market accounted for approximately 28% of our net sales in fiscal 2007. In January 2004, we entered into a five-year primary distribution agreement with Wild Oats Markets. We had previously served as primary distributor for Wild Oats Markets through August 2002. Wild Oats Markets accounted for approximately 9% of our net sales in fiscal 2007. As a result of this concentration of our customer base, the loss or cancellation of business from either of these customers, including from increased distribution to their own facilities or the merger of these companies, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. As discussed above under “Business—Overview,” Whole Foods Market and Wild Oats Markets announced on February 21, 2007 that the two companies had entered into a merger agreement. This merger was substantially completed in August 2007 and Wild Oats Markets became a subsidiary of Whole Foods Market. Wild Oats Markets is expected to become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Whole Foods Market in the near future. On a combined basis, Whole Foods Market and Wild Oats Markets accounted for approximately 37% or our net sales in fiscal 2007. Whole Foods Market has announced that it will be selling all thirty-five of Wild Oats Markets’ Henry’s and Sun Harvest store locations to a subsidiary of Smart & Final Inc. following the closing of its merger with Wild Oats Markets. Sales to Henry’s and Sun Harvest stores comprised approximately 20% of our business with Wild Oats Markets in fiscal 2007. Excluding our sales to Henry’s and Sun Harvest stores, sales to Whole Foods Market and Wild Oats Markets accounted for approximately 34.5% of our net sales in fiscal 2007. At this time, we cannot accurately estimate the impact, if any, that the merger of Whole Foods Market and Wild Oats Markets will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We sell products under purchase orders, and we generally have no agreements with or commitments from our customers for the purchase of products. We cannot assure you that our customers will maintain or increase their sales volumes or orders for the products supplied by us or that we will be able to maintain or add to our existing customer base. Our profit margins may decrease due to consolidation in the grocery industry The grocery distribution industry generally is characterized by relatively high volume with relatively low profit margins. The continuing consolidation of retailers in the natural products industry and the growth of supernatural chains may reduce our profit margins in the future as more customers qualify for greater volume discounts, and we experience pricing pressures from both ends of the supply chain. Our acquisitive nature may adversely affect our business We continually evaluate opportunities to acquire other companies. We believe that there are risks related to acquiring companies, including overpaying for acquisitions, losing key employees of acquired companies and failing to achieve potential synergies. Additionally, our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to integrate our acquisitions and mergers. 11 A significant portion of our historical growth has been achieved through acquisitions of or mergers with other distributors of natural products. Successful integration of mergers is critical to our future operating and financial performance. Integration requires, among other things: · maintaining the customer base; · optimizing of delivery routes; · coordinating administrative, distribution and finance functions; and · integrating management information systems and personnel. The integration process has and could divert the attention of management and any difficulties or problems encountered in the transition process could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the process of combining companies has and could cause the interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the respective businesses, which could have an adverse effect on their combined operations. We cannot assure you that we will realize any of the anticipated benefits of mergers. We may have difficulty in managing our growth The growth in the size of our business and operations has placed and is expected to continue to place a significant strain on our management. Our future growth is limited in part by the size and location of our distribution centers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully expand our existing distribution facilities or open new distribution facilities in new or existing markets to facilitate growth. In addition, our growth strategy to expand our market presence includes possible additional acquisitions. To the extent our future growth includes acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, consummate and integrate such potential acquisitions or expand into new markets. Our ability to compete effectively and to manage future growth, if any, will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. We cannot assure you that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our operations. Our inability to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our focus on growth may temporarily redirect resources previously focused on reducing product cost, resulting in lower gross profits in relation to sales. We have significant competition from a variety of sources We operate in competitive markets, and our future success will be largely dependent on our ability to provide quality products and services at competitive prices. Our competition comes from a variety of sources, including other distributors of natural products as well as specialty grocery and mass market grocery distributors. We cannot assure you that mass market grocery distributors will not increase their emphasis on natural products and more directly compete with us or that new competitors will not enter the market. These distributors may have been in business longer than we have, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and may be better established in their markets. We cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors will not provide services comparable or superior to those provided by us or adapt more quickly than we do to evolving industry trends or changing market requirements. It is also possible that alliances among competitors may develop and rapidly acquire significant market share or that certain of our customers will increase distribution to their own retail facilities. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. 12 Our operations are sensitive to economic downturns The grocery industry is also sensitive to national and regional economic conditions and the demand for our products may be adversely affected from time to time by economic downturns. In addition, our operating results are particularly sensitive to, and may be materially adversely affected by: · difficulties with the collectibility of accounts receivable; · difficulties with inventory control; · competitive pricing pressures; and · unexpected increases in fuel or other transportation-related costs. We cannot assure you that one or more of such factors will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Increased fuel costs may adversely affect our results of operations Increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations. The high cost of diesel fuel can also increase the price we pay for products as well as the costs we incur to deliver products to our customers. These factors, in turn, may negatively impact our net sales, margins, operating expenses and operating results. To manage this risk, we may periodically enter into heating oil derivative contracts to hedge a portion of our projected diesel fuel requirements. Heating crude oil prices have a highly correlated relationship to fuel prices, making these derivatives effective in offsetting changes in the cost of diesel fuel. We do not enter into fuel hedge contracts for speculative purposes. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations Our net sales and operating results may vary significantly from period to period due to: · demand for natural products; · changes in our operating expenses, including fuel and insurance; · management’s ability to execute our business and growth strategies; · changes in customer preferences and demands for natural products, including levels of enthusiasm for health, fitness and environmental issues; · fluctuation of natural product prices due to competitive pressures; · personnel changes; · supply shortages; · general economic conditions; · lack of an adequate supply of high-quality agricultural products due to poor growing conditions, natural disasters or otherwise; · volatility in prices of high-quality agricultural products resulting from poor growing conditions, natural disasters or otherwise; and · future acquisitions, particularly in periods immediately following the consummation of such acquisition transactions while the operations of the acquired businesses are being integrated into our operations. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful and that such comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. 13 Access to capital and the cost of that capital We have an amended and restated secured revolving credit facility, with available credit under it of $250 million at an interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.75% maturing on March 31, 2008. As of July 28, 2007, our borrowing base, based on accounts receivable and inventory levels, was $250 million, with remaining availability of $117.9 million. We are currently investigating options for renewing or negotiating our amended and restated credit facility in fiscal 2008, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us. In April 2003, we executed a term loan agreement in the principal amount of $30 million secured by the real property that was released in accordance with an amendment to the loan and security agreement related to the amended and restated credit facility. The $30 million term loan was repayable over seven years based on a fifteen-year amortization schedule. Interest on the term loan accrues at LIBOR plus 1.50%. In December 2003, we amended this term loan agreement by increasing the principal amount from $30 million to $40 million under the existing terms and conditions. In July 2005, we amended the term loan agreement, which further increased the principal amount from $40 million to a maximum of up to $75 million. The amended term loan accrues interest at LIBOR plus 1.00%, and is repayable over seven years based on a fifteen-year amortization schedule, with all other terms and conditions remaining unchanged. As of July 28, 2007, $66.3 million was outstanding under the term loan agreement. In order to maintain our profit margins, we rely on strategic investment buying initiatives, such as discounted bulk purchases, which require spending significant amounts of working capital. In the event that our cost of capital increases or our ability to borrow funds or raise equity capital is limited, we could suffer reduced profit margins and be unable to grow our business organically or through acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to significant governmental regulation Our business is highly regulated at the federal, state and local levels and our products and distribution operations require various licenses, permits and approvals. In particular: · our products are subject to inspection by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; · our warehouse and distribution facilities are subject to inspection by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and state health authorities; and · the U.S. Department of Transportation and the U.S. Federal Highway Administration regulate our trucking operations. The loss or revocation of any existing licenses, permits or approvals or the failure to obtain any additional licenses, permits or approvals in new jurisdictions where we intend to do business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on a number of key executives Management of our business is substantially dependent upon the services of Richard Antonelli (Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and President of Distribution), Daniel V. Atwood (Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer, and President of United Natural Brands), Michael D. Beaudry (President of the Eastern Region), Thomas A. Dziki (Vice President of Sustainable Development), Michael S. Funk (President and Chief Executive Officer), Gary A. Glenn (Vice President of Information Technology), Randle Lindberg (President of the Western Region), Mark E. Shamber (Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer), and other key management employees. Loss of the services of any officers or any other key management employee could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 14 Union-organizing activities could cause labor relations difficulties As of July 28, 2007, we had approximately 4,800 full and part-time employees. An aggregate of approximately 7% of our total employees, or approximately 322 of the employees at our Auburn, Washington, Iowa City, Iowa and Edison, New Jersey facilities, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Edison, New Jersey, Auburn, Washington, and Iowa City, Iowa agreements expire in June 2008, February 2009 and July 2009, respectively. We have in the past been the focus of union-organizing efforts. As we increase our employee base and broaden our distribution operations to new geographic markets, our increased visibility could result in increased or expanded union-organizing efforts. Although we have not experienced a work stoppage to date, if additional employees were to unionize or we are not successful in reaching agreement with these employees, we could be subject to work stoppages and increases in labor costs, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 