Risk Factors In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following important factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business because such factors currently have a significant impact on the Company's business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our business Our Business Is Difficult To Evaluate Because We Have No Ongoing Operations and Minimal Assets. As the Company currently has no ongoing operations and only minimal assets, there is a risk that we will be unable to continue as a going concern and consummate a business combination. We have no significant assets or financial resources. We will, in all likelihood, sustain operating expenses without corresponding revenues, at least until the consummation of a business combination. This may result in our incurring a net operating loss that will increase continuously until we can consummate a business combination with a profitable business opportunity. We cannot assure you that we can identify a suitable business opportunity and consummate a business combination. We Will Continue To Incur Claims, Liabilities And Expenses. We will continue to incur claims, liabilities and expenses, which will reduce the realizable value of our remaining assets and the amount potentially available for distribution to stockholders. Claims, liabilities and expenses from operations (such as salaries, directors' and officers' insurance, payroll and taxes, legal, accounting and consulting fees and miscellaneous office expenses) will continue to be incurred. These expenses will have to be satisfied from our remaining assets and, therefore, will reduce the net realizable value of those assets. Our Business Will Have No Revenues Unless And Until We Merge With Or Acquire An Operating Business. As of the date hereof, the Company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, is a "shell company," defined as a company with no or nominal assets (other than cash) and no or nominal operations. We currently have no revenues from operations. We may not realize any revenues unless and until we successfully merge with or acquire an operating business. Future Success Is Highly Dependent On The Ability Of Management To Locate And Attract A Suitable Acquisition. The nature of our operations is highly speculative and there is a consequent risk of loss of your investment. The success of our plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the identified business opportunity. While management intends to seek business combination(s) with entities having established operating histories, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in locating candidates meeting that criterion. In the event we complete a business combination, the success of our operations may be dependent upon management of the successor firm or venture partner firm, and numerous other factors beyond our control. 7 The Company Has No Existing Agreement For A Business Combination Or Other Transaction. We have no arrangement, agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a merger or joint venture with, or acquisition of, a private or public entity. No assurances can be given that we will successfully identify and evaluate suitable business opportunities or that we will conclude a business combination. We cannot guarantee we will be able to negotiate a business combination on favorable terms. We Cannot Guarantee That The Final Distributions To the Company Will Be Made From Escrow. On the closing date of the Asset Sale, the Company, Oak and Dealy and Silberstein LLP, as escrow agent, entered into an Escrow Agreement, pursuant to which at the closing, Oak deposited $1.5 million of the purchase price in an escrow account with the escrow agent (the "Escrow"). This amount is being held to satisfy potential purchase price adjustments and any claims for indemnification that Oak may have for breaches of the Company's representations, warranties, covenants or other obligations in the Asset Purchase Agreement. Upon each of the 6 month, 12 month and 18 month anniversaries of the closing date, one third of this amount (less any outstanding claims for indemnification) shall be delivered by the escrow agent to Capital. The final distribution of these funds shall be delivered by the escrow agent to Capital upon the later of the 18 month anniversary of the closing date, or the date upon which all pending claims are resolved. We cannot guarantee that the final distributions to Capital from the escrow agent will be made. As of April 11, 2006, approximately Seven Hundred Eight Thousand Sixty Dollars ($708,060) have been released from Escrow and have been used to pay outstanding liabilities of the Company. Our Financial Statements Include A Going Concern Opinion From Our Independent Auditors. The Company received a going concern opinion on its financial statements for fiscal 2005. Our auditors have stated that due to our lack of profitability and our negative working capital, there is "substantial doubt" about our ability to continue as a going concern. The going concern opinion from our auditors may limit our ability to access certain types of financing, or may prevent us from obtaining financing on acceptable terms. Loss Of Key Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of Carmine Stella, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Stella could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 8 We May Not Be Able To Comply In A Timely Manner With All Of The Recently Enacted Or Proposed Corporate Governance Provisions. Beginning with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in July 2002, a significant number of new corporate governance requirements have been adopted or proposed. We believe that we currently comply with all of the requirements that have become effective thus far, and with many of the requirements that will become effective in the future. Although we currently expect to comply with all current and future requirements, we may not be successful in complying with these requirements at all times in the future. In addition, certain of these requirements will require us to make changes to our corporate governance practices. For example, one recent Nasdaq rule approved by the Commission requires that a majority of our Board of Directors be composed of independent directors by our 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Currently, two (2) of the members of our Board of Directors are considered to be independent. We may not be able to attract a sufficient number of directors in the future to satisfy this requirement. Additionally, the Commission recently passed a final rule that requires companies to disclose whether a member of their Audit Committee satisfies certain criteria as a "financial expert." We currently do not have an Audit Committee member that satisfies this requirement and, we may not be able to satisfy this, or other, corporate governance requirements at all times in the future, and our failure to do so could cause the Commission or Nasdaq to take disciplinary actions against us, including an action to delist our stock from the OTC Bulletin Board or any other exchange or electronic trading system where our shares of common stock trade. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Disappointing Quarterly Revenue Or Operating Results Could Cause The Price Of Our Common Stock To Fall. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. If our quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our Common Stock could fall substantially. Our Common Stock Is Particularly Subject To Volatility Because Of The Industry That We Are In. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the market prices of securities of network marketing companies, have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Future Sales By Existing Security Holders Could Depress The Market Price Of Our Common Stock. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our Common Stock, the market price of the Common Stock could decline significantly. Further, even the perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of Common Stock could depress the market price of the Common Stock. There Are Risks Associated With Our Stock Trading On The NASD OTC Bulletin Board Rather Than A National Exchange. There are significant consequences associated with our stock trading on the NASD OTC Bulletin Board rather than a national exchange. The effects of not being able to list our securities on a national exchange include: - - Limited release of the market prices of our securities; - - Limited news coverage of us; - - Limited interest by investors in our securities; - - Volatility of our stock price due to low trading volume; - - Increased difficulty in selling our securities in certain states due to "blue sky" restrictions; and - - Limited ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. 9 There is No Assurance That An Active Public Trading Market Will Develop. There has been an extremely limited public trading market for the Company's Common Stock. There can be no assurances that a public trading market for the Common Stock will develop or that a public trading market, if developed, will be sustained. If for any reason a public trading market does not develop, purchasers of the shares of Common Stock may have difficulty in selling their securities should they desire to do so. "Penny Stock" Regulations May Impose Certain Restrictions On The Marketability of Our Securities. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") has adopted regulations which generally define "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our Common Stock is presently subject to these regulations which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a "penny stock", unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the Commission relating to the "penny stock" market. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the "penny stock" held in the account and information on the limited market in "penny stocks". Consequently, the "penny stock" rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may negatively affect the ability of purchasers of our shares of Common Stock to sell such securities. 