D. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report, you should consider the following carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Limited Operating History The Company has no history of earnings and there are no known commercial quantities of mineral reserves on the Company’s property. Accordingly it is not possible to predict when, if at all, the Company will generate revenues or income from its operations. The Company Is In Exploration Stage and Has No Proven Reserves None of the properties in which the Company has interests are in commercial production, or contain reserves. In order to obtain more reliable information on which to base decisions about possible development of a property, it is necessary to expend significant time and money, and many such properties will not prove to be worth further expense. The Company may thus expend significant amounts of financing and effort on any one of or all of its properties without finding reserves or reaching a stage of commercial production. Exploration and Development Resource exploration and development is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but also from finding mineral deposits that, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by the Company may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond the control of the Company and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection, the combination of which factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return of investment capital. All of the claims to which the Company has a right to acquire an interest are in the exploration stages only and are without a known body of commercial ore. Development of the subject mineral properties would follow only if favourable exploration results are obtained. The business of exploration for minerals and mining involves a high degree of risk. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. There is no assurance that the Company’s mineral exploration and development activities will result in any discoveries of commercial bodies of ore. The long-term profitability of the Company’s operations will in part be directly related to the costs and success of its exploration programs, which may be affected by a number of factors. Substantial expenditures are required to establish reserves through drilling and to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. Although substantial benefits may be derived from the discovery of a major mineralized deposit, no assurance can be given that minerals will be discovered in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. The Company Must Obtain Additional Financing to Conduct Exploration on Its Properties Because the Company is in the exploration stage, it does not have sufficient financial resources available to undertake extensive exploration or, if warranted, development programs. Further exploration or commercial development, if warranted, would require additional financing. There can be no assurance that needed future financing will be available in a timely or economically advantageous manner, or at all. The Company’s Interests in Its Joint Ventures Will Be Subject to Dilution Under the terms of its joint venture agreements, the Company may earn a specified percentage in the joint venture provided that the Company spends a required amount on project expenditures for the joint venture. In the event the Company ceases to make its project expenditures, its interest in the joint venture will be subject to dilution. The Mining Industry Is Highly Speculative The Company is engaged in the exploration for minerals which involves a high degree of geological, technical and economic uncertainty because of the inability to predict future mineral prices, as well as the difficulty of determining the extent of a mineral deposit and the feasibility of extracting it without the expenditure of considerable money. None of the Company’s Officers and Directors Devote Their Full-Time Efforts to the Company and Certain Directors and Officers may be in a Position of Conflicts of Interest None of the Company’s officers and directors devotes their full-time efforts to the Company. Certain members of our board and officers of the Company also serve as officers or directors of other companies involved in natural resource exploration and development. Consequently, there exists the possibility that those directors and officers may be in a position of conflict. Any decision made by those directors and officers will be made in accordance with their duties and obligations to deal fairly and in good faith with the Company and such other companies. In addition, such directors and officers will declare, and refrain from voting on, any matter in which such directors or officers may have a conflict of interest. Nevertheless, there remains the possibility that the best interests of the Company will not be served because its directors and officers have other commitments. It May Be Difficult to Enforce Civil Liabilities Against the Company Because all of the assets of the Company, as well as the Company’s jurisdiction of incorporation and the residences of its officers and directors are located outside of the United States, it may be difficult or impossible to enforce judgments granted by a court in the United States against the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries or the directors and officers of the Company who reside outside the United States. Penny Stock Rules May Make It More Difficult to Trade the Company’s Common Shares The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price, as defined, less than US$5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than US$5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The Company's securities may be covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors such as institutions with assets in excess of US$5,000,000 or an individual with net worth in excess of US$1,000,000 or annual income exceeding US$200,000 or US$300,000 jointly with his or her spouse. For transactions covered by this rule, the broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination for the purchase and receive the purchaser’s written agreement of the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company's securities and also affect the ability of the Company's investors to sell their shares in the secondary market. The Company is a Passive Foreign Investment Company for United State Federal Income Tax Purposes The Company believes that it is a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for United States Federal income tax purposes because it earns 75% or more of its gross income from passive sources. As a result, United States holders of the Company's common shares could be subject to increased tax liability, possibly including an interest charge, upon the sale or other disposition of the United States holders common shares, or upon receipt of "excess distributions," unless such holder of common shares elected to be taxed currently on his or her pro rata portion of the Company's income, whether or not the income was distributed in the form of dividends or otherwise. The election requires certain conditions to be met such as filing on or before the due date, as extended, for filing the shareholder's income tax return for the first taxable year to which the election will apply. Otherwise, the election may only partially apply. Further, the elections will increase the administrative and regulatory burden of the Company. See Item 10.E. “Taxation - United States Tax Consequences - Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” Risks Related to Doing Business in China Various matters that are specific to doing business in China may create additional risks or increase the degree of such risks associated with the Company’s activities. These risks are discussed below. The Company may have to conduct business through joint ventures Cooperative joint ventures (“CJVs”) are a form of foreign direct investment in China and are governed by the Law of the PRC on Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Ventures (implemented in 1988 and revised in 2000) and the PRC Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Law Implementing Rules (implemented in 1995) (collectively the “CJV Law”). The CJV Law permits a CJV to choose to operate as a “legal person” by forming a limited liability company, subject to approval by relevant governmental authorities. Under CJV law, the Company will have to satisfy its contribution obligations to joint ventures within the time frame prescribed by the joint venture contract. Failure to satisfy contribution obligations by investors may lead to penalty and the business license being revoked by the governmental authorities. The involvement of joint venture partners can complicate management of operations and result in dilution of the Company’s investment. Disputes with joint venture partners or failure to satisfy contribution obligations could have a materially adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Ownership and Regulation of Mineral Resources is subject to extensive government regulation Ownership of land in China remains with the States and the State, at the national, regional and local levels, is extensively involved in the regulation of exploration and mining activities. Transfers of exploration and mining rights are also subject to governmental approval. Failure or delays in obtaining necessary approvals could have a materially adverse affect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 