ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following is a discussion of significant risk factors relevant to DXP's business that could adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. Our future results will be impacted by our ability to implement our growth strategy. Our future results will depend in part on our success in implementing our internal growth strategy, which includes expanding our existing geographic areas and adding new customers. Our ability to implement this strategy will depend on our success in selling more to existing customers, acquiring new customers, hiring qualified sales persons, and marketing integrated forms of supply management such as those being pursued by us through our SmartSource program. Although we intend to increase sales and product offerings to existing customers and reduce costs through consolidating certain administrative and sales functions, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. Our business has substantial competition and competition could adversely affect our results. Our business is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of industrial supply distributors, some of which may have greater financial and other resources than us. Although many of our traditional distribution competitors are small enterprises selling to customers in a limited geographic area, we also compete with larger distributors that provide integrated supply programs such as those offered through outsourcing services similar to those that are offered by our SmartSource program. Some of these large distributors may be able to supply their products in a more timely and cost-efficient manner than us. Our competitors include direct mail suppliers, large warehouse stores and, to a lesser extent, certain manufacturers. Competitive pressures could adversely affect DXP's sales and profitability. The loss of or the failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely impact our results of operations. We will continue to be dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts and ability of David R. Little, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Little or any other executive officer of our Company could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on the life of Mr. Little or on the lives of our other executive officers. In addition, our ability to grow successfully will be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management and technical and operational personnel. The failure to attract and retain such persons could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The loss of any key supplier could adversely affect DXP's sales and profitability. We have distribution rights for certain product lines and depend on these distribution rights for a substantial portion of our business. Many of these distribution rights are pursuant to contracts that are subject to cancellation upon little or no prior notice. Although we believe that we could obtain alternate distribution rights in the event of such a cancellation, the termination or limitation by any key supplier of its relationship with our company could result in a temporary disruption on our business and, in turn, could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. A slowdown in the economy could negatively impact DXP's sales growth. Economic and industry trends affect DXP's business. Demand for our products is subject to economic trends affecting our customers and the industries in which they compete in particular. Many of these industries, such as the oil and gas industry, are subject to volatility while others, such as the petrochemical industry, are cyclical and materially affected by changes in the economy. As a result, demand for our products could be adversely impacted by changes in the markets of our customers. Interruptions in the proper functioning of our information systems could disrupt operations and cause increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues. The proper functioning of DXP's information systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. Although DXP's information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities exist, information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, telecommunication failures and other problems. If critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, DXP's ability to process orders, identify business opportunities, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable and pay expenses could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 