Risk Factors This Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements. The following important factors, among other things, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual results for a fiscal year and any interim period to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. This section uses the terms “we,” “our,” and “us” when it is not necessary to distinguish among Universal Corporation and its various operating subsidiaries or when any distinction is clear from the context. Operating Factors The leaf tobacco industry is highly competitive, and we are heavily reliant on a few large customers. We are one of two major independent global competitors in the highly competitive leaf tobacco industry, both of whom are reliant upon a few large customers. The loss of one of those large customers or a significant decrease in their respective demand for our products or services could further increase competition and significantly decrease our sales of products or services, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The competition among leaf tobacco merchants is based on the ability to meet customer specifications in the buying, processing, and financing of tobacco, as well as the price charged for products and services. However, because we, like our competition, rely upon a few significant customers, the consolidation or failure of any of these large or significant customers could contribute to a significant decrease in our sales of products and services. 8 Table of Contents Our financial results can be significantly affected by the changes in the balance of supply and demand for leaf tobacco or other agricultural products. Because we are a leaf tobacco merchant, our financial results can be significantly affected by changes in the overall balance of worldwide supply and demand for leaf tobacco. The demand for tobacco, which is based upon customers’ expectations of their future tobacco requirements, can change from time to time depending upon internal and external factors affecting the demand for their products. Our customers’ expectations, and thus their demand for leaf tobacco, are influenced by a number of factors, including: • trends in the global consumption of cigarettes, • trends in sales of cigars and other tobacco products, and • levels of competition. The total supply of tobacco at any given time is a function of current tobacco production, inventories held by manufacturers, and the volumes of uncommitted stocks of processed tobacco from prior years’ production. Production of tobacco in a given year may be significantly affected by such factors as: • the amount of tobacco planted by farmers throughout the world, • weather and natural disasters, and • crop disease. Any significant change in these factors could cause a material imbalance in the supply and demand for tobacco, which would affect our results of operations. Similar factors can affect results for our agri-products businesses as well. Our financial results will vary according to growing conditions, customer requirements and other factors. These factors also reduce the ability to gauge our performance and increase the risk of an investment in Universal. Our financial results, particularly the quarterly financial results, may be significantly affected by fluctuations in tobacco growing seasons and crop sizes. The cultivation of tobacco is dependent upon a number of factors, including weather and other natural events, and our processing schedule and results of operations can be significantly altered by these factors. Further, the timing and unpredictability of customer orders and shipments require us to keep tobacco in inventory, increase our risk, and result in variations in quarterly and annual financial results. Sales recognition by our subsidiaries and us is based on the passage of ownership, usually with shipment of product. Since individual shipments may represent significant amounts of revenue, our quarterly and annual financial results may vary significantly depending on the needs and shipping instructions of our customers. These fluctuations result in varying volumes and sales in given periods, which also reduce the comparability of financial results in different periods or in the same periods in different years. Major shifts in customer requirements for tobacco supply may significantly affect our operating results. If our customers significantly alter their requirements for tobacco volumes from certain regions, then we may have to change our production facilities and alter our fixed asset base in certain origins. Permanent or long-term reduction in demand for tobacco from origins where we have operations may trigger restructuring charges. We may also need to make significant capital investments in other regions to develop the needed infrastructure to meet customer supply requirements. In areas where we purchase leaf tobacco directly from farmers, we bear the risk that the tobacco we receive will not meet quality and quantity requirements. When we contract directly with tobacco farmers or tobacco farmer cooperatives, which is the method we use to purchase tobacco in most countries, we bear the risk that the tobacco delivered may not meet customer quality and quantity requirements. If the tobacco does not meet such market requirements, we may not be able to meet all of our customers’ orders, which would have an adverse effect on profitability and results of operations. In addition, in many foreign countries, when we purchase tobacco directly from farmers, we provide them with financing. Unless we receive marketable tobacco that meets the quality and quantity specifications of our customers, we bear the risk that we will not be able to fully recover our 9 Table of Contents crop advances or recover them in a reasonable period of time. Although we purchase a portion of our leaf tobacco through public auction, as well as privately-negotiated contract purchases, several countries where auction markets are used today may be moving toward direct purchasing, thus increasing the areas subject to this risk. Weather and other conditions can affect the marketability of our products. Tobacco and many other agricultural crops that we buy, such as sunflower seeds and tea, are subject to vagaries of the weather and the environment that can, in some cases, change the quality or size of the crops. If a weather event is particularly severe, such as a major drought or hurricane, the affected crop could be destroyed or damaged to an extent that it would be less desirable to manufacturers, which would result in a reduction in revenues. If such an event is also widespread, it could affect our ability to acquire the quantity of products required by our customers. In addition, other items can affect the marketability of tobacco and other agricultural products, including, among other things, the presence of: • foreign matter, • genetically modified organisms, and • excess residues of pesticides, fungicides, and herbicides. A significant event impacting the condition or quality of a large amount of any of the crops that we buy could make it difficult for us to sell these products or to fill customers’ orders. A significant slowdown in home improvement or construction markets in the Netherlands could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The majority of the customers who purchase lumber and building products from us are located in the Netherlands. Therefore, a significant slowdown in the home improvement or construction market in the Netherlands could reduce demand for these products, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Regulatory and Governmental Factors Government efforts to reduce tobacco consumption could have a significant impact on the businesses of our customers, which would, in turn, affect our results of operations. The U.S. federal government and certain state and local governments have taken or proposed actions that may have the effect of reducing U.S. consumption of tobacco products and indirectly reducing demand for our products and services. These activities have included: • the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s decision to classify environmental tobacco smoke as a “Group A” (known human) carcinogen, • restrictions on the use of tobacco products in public places and places of employment, • proposals to have the U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulate nicotine as a drug and sharply restrict tobacco product advertising and promotion, • proposals to increase the federal, state, and local excise taxes on cigarettes and other tobacco products, and • the policy of the U.S. government to link certain federal grants to the enforcement of state laws restricting the sale of tobacco products. Numerous other legislative and regulatory anti-smoking measures have been proposed at the federal, state, and local levels. Excluding the effect of tobacco contained in cigarettes imported into the United States, we estimate that between 12% and 15% of the flue-cured and burley tobaccos that we handle worldwide are ultimately consumed in the United States. Our tobacco sales consist primarily of flue-cured and burley tobaccos, which, along with oriental tobaccos, are the major ingredients in American-blend cigarettes. A number of foreign governments have also taken or proposed steps to restrict or prohibit tobacco product advertising and promotion, to increase taxes on tobacco products, and to discourage tobacco product consumption. A number 10 Table of Contents of such measures are included in the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (“FCTC”), which was negotiated and promoted globally under the auspices of the World Health Organization. We cannot predict the extent to which the efforts of governments or non-governmental agencies to reduce tobacco consumption might affect the business of our primary customers. However, a significant decrease in worldwide tobacco consumption brought about by existing or future governmental laws and regulations would reduce demand for our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Government efforts can have a significant effect on the sourcing of tobacco. If those efforts are successful, we could have difficulty obtaining sufficient tobacco to provide for our customers requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our performance and results of operations. Various proposals to reform U.S. immigration laws could restrict the number of legal temporary agricultural workers entering the United States to work on tobacco producing farms. In addition, among the regulatory options that are available to the FCTC are the promotion of crop diversification and reduction of tobacco production in countries whose economies depend upon tobacco production. If either of these actions were taken in any significant manner, we could encounter difficulty in sourcing leaf tobacco to fill customer requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Because we conduct a significant portion of our operations internationally, political uncertainties in certain countries could have an adverse effect on our performance and results of operations. Our international operations are subject to uncertainties and risks relating to the political stability of certain foreign governments, principally in developing countries and emerging markets, and to the effects of changes in the trade policies and economic regulations of foreign governments. These uncertainties and risks, which include, among other factors, undeveloped or antiquated commercial law and the expropriation or nationalization of assets, may adversely impact our ability to effectively manage our operations in those countries. For example, in the past, we have experienced significant year-to-year fluctuations in earnings due to changes in the Brazilian government’s economic policies, and government actions in Zimbabwe have reduced the tobacco crop there, causing us to shift sourcing of tobacco to other countries. We have substantial capital investments in South America and Africa, and the performance of our operations in those regions can materially affect our earnings from tobacco operations. If the political situation in any of the countries where we conduct business were to deteriorate significantly, our ability to recover assets located there could be impaired. To the extent that we do not replace any lost volumes of tobacco with tobacco from other sources, or incur increased costs related to such replacement, our results of operations would suffer. Changes in tax laws in the countries where we do business may adversely affect our results of operations. Through our subsidiaries, we are subject to the tax laws of many jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws can affect our earnings as can the resolution of various pending and contested tax issues. For example, changes in tax law in the state of Rio Grande do Sul in Brazil, which limit the amount of tax credits generated on interstate sales of tobacco in Brazil increased our cost of doing business in that country in fiscal year 2005. See Note 12 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information on this tax. Financial Factors Failure of our customers or farmers to repay extensions of credit could materially impact our results of operations. We extend credit to both farmers and customers. A significant delay in payment or a significant bad debt provision related to amounts due could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, crop advances to farmers are generally secured by the farmers’ agreement to deliver green tobacco. In the event of crop failure, recovery of advances could be delayed until future crops are delivered. Failure of foreign banks in which our subsidiaries deposit funds or the failure to transfer funds or honor withdrawals may affect our results of operations. Funds held by our foreign subsidiaries are often deposited in their local banks. Banks in certain foreign jurisdictions may be subject to a higher rate of failure or may not honor withdrawals of deposited funds. In addition, the countries in which these local banks operate may lack sufficient regulatory oversight or suffer from structural weaknesses in the local banking system. Due to uncertainties and risks relating to the political stability of certain foreign governments, these local banks also may be subject to exchange controls and therefore unable to perform transfers of certain currencies. If our ability to gain access to these funds were impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We have substantial debt outstanding which may limit our ability to secure future sources of financing. If we do not reduce debt levels or increase earnings, then our credit ratings could be lowered, which would cause access to debt markets to become more difficult and increase interest rates on new debt. We may find it difficult to secure additional financing on satisfactory terms. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates may affect our results of operations. Although the international tobacco trade generally is conducted in U.S. dollars, thereby limiting foreign exchange risk to that which is related to production costs, overhead, and income taxes in the source country, our purchases of tobacco are often made in local currency. We also provide farmer advances that are denominated in the local currency. Currency gains or losses on those advances are usually offset by decreases or increases in the cost of tobacco, which is priced in the local currency. However, the timing of the effect of the offset may not occur until a subsequent quarter or fiscal year. As a result, changes in exchange rates can make a particular crop more or less attractive in U.S. dollar terms in the world market, thereby affecting the profitability of such crop and our results of operations. Most of the tobacco operations are accounted for using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency. Because there is no forward foreign exchange market in many of the major countries where we source tobacco, we manage our foreign exchange risk by matching funding for inventory purchases with the currency of sale and by minimizing its net investment in these countries. To the extent that we are not able to continue match funding, or otherwise hedge its exposure, we could have a disproportionate exposure to local currency in which the tobacco was purchased. Certain of our operations use their local currency as the functional currency. For example, the lumber and building products operations, which are based in the Netherlands, use the euro as their functional currency. In certain tobacco markets that are primarily domestic, we use the local currency as the functional currency. Examples of these domestic markets are Hungary and Poland. In each case, reported earnings are affected by the translation of the local currency into the U.S. dollar. See also “Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” In our tobacco business, customers usually pre-finance purchases or pay market rates of interest for inventory purchased on order. We borrow long-term debt to reduce liquidity issues. Through hedging agreements, we swap the interest rates on our existing fixed-rate debt to floating market interest rates to better match the interest rates that we charge our customers. To the extent we are unable to match these interest rates, a decrease in short-term interest rates could increase our net financing costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 12 Table of Contents 