Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business may suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this report. There may be additional risks faced by our business. All references to “Baxter” in these Risk Factors should be read, as to future contingencies, to include Fenwal. The INTERCEPT Blood System may not achieve broad market acceptance. We may encounter governmental and blood banking community resistance to commercial adoption. Some potential customers may await further safety information or additional studies before choosing whether to adopt our products. There is some loss of platelets as a result of our pathogen inactivation process. If the loss of platelets leads to increased costs, or our process requires changes in blood center or clinical regimens, customers may not adopt our platelet system. Our products do not inactivate all known pathogens, and the inability of our systems to inactivate certain pathogens may limit their acceptance. In addition, our products may not demonstrate economic value sufficient to offset their price, imposing a financial burden on the healthcare system that may limit market acceptance. For logistical and financial reasons, the transfusion industry has not always integrated new technologies into their processes, even those with the potential to improve the safety of the blood supply, such as the INTERCEPT Blood System. Our products may require significant changes to our potential customers’ blood component collection methods, space and staffing requirements and potential customers may not believe that the benefits of using the INTERCEPT Blood System justify their additional cost. In addition, our platelet system process today is not fully compatible with the common practice of collecting two units of platelets from a single apheresis donor. If customers experience operational or technical problems with the use of INTERCEPT Blood System products, market acceptance may be reduced. For example, if adverse events arise from incomplete inactivation of pathogens, improper processing or user error, or if testing of INTERCEPT Blood System-treated blood samples fails to reliably confirm pathogen inactivation, whether or not directly attributable to a shortcoming of the INTERCEPT Blood System, customers may refrain from purchasing the products. Market acceptance of our products may also be affected by blood center budgets and the availability of reimbursement from governments, managed care payors, such as insurance companies, or other third parties. In many cases, due to the structure of the blood products industry, we will have little control over budget and reimbursement discussions, which generally occur between blood centers and national or regional ministries of health and private payors. It is difficult to predict the reimbursement status of newly approved, novel medical 10 Table of Contents device products. In certain foreign markets, governments have issued regulations relating to the pricing and profitability of medical products and medical products companies. There also have been proposals in the United States, at both the Federal and state government level, to implement such controls. The widespread adoption of managed care in the United States has also placed pressure on the pricing of medical products. These pressures can be expected to continue and may limit the prices we can obtain for our products. Product revenue in Europe and other regions may be negatively affected because we do not have FDA approval for any of our products, nor are we prioritizing seeking such approval. Not prioritizing pursuit of regulatory approval of the INTERCEPT Blood System in the United States historically in favor of focusing on commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System in Europe, Asia and the Middle East may have adverse consequences on market acceptance of the INTERCEPT Blood System globally. If the INTERCEPT Blood System products fail to achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. The market for the INTERCEPT Blood System is highly concentrated with few customers, including often-dominant regional or national blood collection entities. Even if our products receive regulatory approval and reimbursement is available, failure to properly market, promote, distribute, price or sell our products to any of these large customers could significantly diminish potential product revenue in those geographies. The market for our pathogen inactivation systems in the United States is highly concentrated, dominated by a small number of blood collection organizations. In many countries in Western Europe and in Japan, various national blood transfusion services or Red Cross organizations collect, store and distribute virtually all of their respective nations’ blood and blood components supply. In Europe, the largest markets for our products are in England, Germany and France. Decisions on product adoption in England are centralized with the National Blood Service, where general cost containment pressures have delayed consideration of the INTERCEPT Blood System to date. In Germany, decisions on product adoption and subsequent reimbursement are expected to be on a regional or even blood center-by-blood center basis, but depend on both local and centralized regulatory approvals. While the platelet and plasma systems have received in-country regulatory approval in France, adoption throughout France has been delayed pending budget authorization from the French Ministry of Health to support a national contract with the EFS. Blood center economics in certain European countries, including Germany and the United Kingdom, may require that we develop disposable kit configurations of the platelet system that treat larger volumes of platelets, which would serve to reduce the absolute number of kits we might sell to address market demand in those countries, even though our selling price and margin might be higher on such disposable kit configurations. The Japanese Red Cross controls a significant majority of blood transfusions in Japan. If approvals are not obtained to market our products in these countries, or if the products are not adopted in these countries, our potential product revenue will be significantly decreased. Our products, blood products treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System and we are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign authorities. Our products under development, and anticipated future products, are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by local, state and federal regulatory authorities in the United States and by foreign regulatory bodies. These regulations are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: • development; • testing; • manufacturing; • labeling; • storage; • pre-market clearance or approval; • sales and distribution; • use standards and documentation; 11 Table of Contents • post-launch surveillance; • quality; • advertising and promotion; and • reimbursement. The FDA and other agencies in the United States and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the manufacturing and marketing of products such as those we are developing. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is long, expensive and uncertain, and typically takes a number of years, depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the product. In addition, we may be required to obtain approval from the Food and Drug Branch of the California State Department of Health for any product manufactured by us in California, including clinical trial use. We may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure necessary approvals or licenses, or we may not be successful at all. Before the FDA determines whether to approve the INTERCEPT Blood System products, we expect our approval applications to be reviewed by the Blood Products Advisory Committee, or BPAC. BPAC would then make a recommendation to the FDA for, or against, approval. Even if BPAC were to recommend approval of one or more of our products, the FDA would not necessarily approve those products. If BPAC were to recommend against approval of one or more of our products, it is likely that the FDA would not approve those products. If our product candidates receive approval for commercial sale, their marketing and manufacturing will be subject to continuing FDA and other regulatory requirements, such as requirements to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice and ISO 13485, a quality management system standard applicable to the products we sell in Europe. The failure to comply with these requirements on an ongoing basis could result in delaying or precluding commercialization efforts in certain geographies, including the United States, and could result in enforcement action, which could harm our business. The current manufacturing sites we rely upon for producing the platelet and plasma system products for European distribution are not FDA-qualified facilities. Regulatory authorities may also require post-marketing testing, which can involve significant expense. Governments or regulatory authorities may impose new regulations or other changes or we may discover that we are subject to additional regulations that could further delay or preclude regulatory approval and subsequent adoption of our potential products. We cannot predict the impact of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action. Distribution of our products outside the United States also is subject to extensive government regulation. These regulations vary by country, including the requirements for approvals or clearance to market, the time required for regulatory review and the sanctions imposed for violations. In some countries, we may be required to register as a medical device manufacturer, even though we outsource manufacturing to third parties. In addition, countries outside the European Union may require clinical data submissions, registration packages, import licenses or other documentation with which we have no familiarity. We were required to obtain a CE mark extension in our name from European Union regulators for our platelet system, originally obtained by Baxter in 2002, by May 2007 and will need to do so every five years thereafter. In addition to European Union-level approval, we must obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals in some individual European countries, including France and Switzerland, to market our products. We may also be required to conduct additional testing in order to obtain regulatory approval in countries that do not recognize the CE mark as being adequate for commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System in those countries. The level of additional product testing varies by country, but could be expensive or take a long time to complete. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in lost product revenue and profitability. We have conducted many toxicology studies to demonstrate the INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems’ safety, and we have conducted and plan to conduct toxicology studies for the INTERCEPT red blood cell system 12 Table of Contents throughout the product development process. At any time, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may require further toxicology or other studies to further demonstrate our products’ safety, which could delay commercialization. In addition, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may alter guidance at any time as to what constitutes acceptable clinical trial endpoints or trial design, which may necessitate our having to redesign our product candidates or proposed clinical trials and cause us to incur substantial additional expense or time in attempting to gain regulatory approval. We believe the FDA and other regulatory authorities are likely to weigh the potential risks of using our pathogen inactivation products against the incremental benefits, which may be less compelling in light of improved safety in the blood supply. We expect the FDA to require us to demonstrate a very low level of potential side effects in data from commercial use or in additional Phase III trials of the platelet system we may conduct in the United States. Trials of this type may be too large and expensive to be practical. Regulatory delays can also materially impact our product development costs. If we experience delays in testing or approvals, our product development costs will increase. For example, we may need to repeat clinical trials to address regulatory or clinical questions. We may also need to retain third-party investigators and organizations in an attempt to facilitate regulatory review and approval. If the delays are significant, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to become profitable will be delayed. Regulatory agencies may limit the uses, or indications, for which any of our products are approved. For example, we believe that the INTERCEPT Blood System products will be able to claim the inactivation of particular pathogens only to the extent we have laboratory or animal data to support such claims. After regulatory approval for the initial indications, further studies may be necessary to gain approval for the use of the product for additional indications. In addition to the regulatory requirements applicable to us and to our products, there are regulatory requirements applicable to our prospective customers of INTERCEPT Blood System products, the blood centers that process and distribute blood and blood products. Blood centers and others will likely be required to obtain approved license supplements from the FDA or European regulatory authorities before making available blood products processed with our pathogen inactivation systems to hospitals and transfusing physicians. For example, our customers in Germany must obtain separate regulatory approvals to manufacture and sell blood components treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System. Our customers may lack the resources or capability to obtain such regulatory approvals. These requirements or regulators’ delays in approving license supplements may deter some blood centers from using our products. Blood centers that do submit applications for manufacturing and sale or supplements may face disapproval or delays in approval that could provide further delay or deter them from using our products. The regulatory impact on potential customers could slow or limit the potential sales of our products. If our preclinical and clinical data are not considered sufficient by regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval, we will be unable to commercialize our products and generate revenue. Our red blood cell system requires extensive additional testing and development. Except for the INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems, which have received CE mark approval and in-country regulatory approvals in certain countries in Europe, we have no products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale and are being marketed. Our product candidates are in various stages of development, and we face the risks of failure inherent in developing medical devices and biotechnology products based on new technologies. Our product candidates must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy and we must adhere to quality standards regarding manufacturing and customer-facing business processes before the FDA and international regulatory authorities can approve them for commercial use. We must provide the FDA and international regulatory authorities with preclinical, clinical and manufacturing data demonstrating that our products are safe, effective and in compliance with government regulations before the products can be approved for commercial sale. 13 Table of Contents In 2002, the platelet system received CE mark approval. We will need to complete validation studies and obtain in-country regulatory approvals and gain national reimbursement in certain European countries before we can market our products in those countries. We expect that lengthy randomized clinical trials funded by a third party will need to be completed prior to our marketing our platelet system in The Netherlands. We also expect to conduct many smaller scale experience studies at our expense with prospective customers in a number of European countries. We completed our Phase III clinical trial of the platelet system in the United States in March 2001 and have submitted data from this trial, along with several other modules of our pre-market approval application, to the FDA. Based on discussions with the FDA, we performed an additional blinded analysis of the clinical trial data, under the direction of an independent expert physician panel, to determine if apparent differences between treatment groups in the category of pulmonary adverse events reported in the study were attributable to inconsistent event reporting. The reassessment of primary patient records by the expert physician panel showed no statistically significant differences between groups. This reassessment differed from the earlier analysis of adverse events that was based on clinical trial case report forms, which showed statistically significant differences in specific pulmonary events. We submitted a report of the analysis to the FDA for review. The report included conclusions from the expert physician panel. Based upon further discussions with the FDA following submission of that report, we continue to expect that the FDA will require an additional, significantly larger Phase III clinical trial to evaluate the hemostatic efficacy and safety of the platelet system, using the Company’s final commercial product design, as compared to conventional platelets. We also understand that our reassessment of our previously completed Phase III clinical trial data will not be sufficient to address the apparent differences observed in that trial between the treatment groups in the category of pulmonary adverse events. We have had several interactions with the FDA subsequent to the final report submission and understand that the FDA may consider non-randomized data derived from commercial use of the platelet system in Europe in conjunction with previously completed Phase III data from randomized clinical trials conducted in the United States. Such data from commercial use will need to be in a form and substance deemed acceptable to the FDA in its sole discretion. There is no assurance that we will be able to reach agreement with the FDA on the data to be collected, that we will be able to collect such data, or that the FDA will find such data from commercial use adequate to answer questions that the FDA has concerning the safety and efficacy of the platelet system. As a result, the FDA may still require a significantly larger randomized, blinded clinical trial than we and Baxter completed in 2001 before a product license application can be finalized and the platelet system considered for approval in the United States. Such an additional Phase III trial would have to be designed to demonstrate no greater frequency in the incidence of such adverse events relative to a control group on a statistically significant basis. The dimensions of such a Phase III trial may be prohibitively large due either to prospective cost, logistics or both. The additional Phase III clinical trial would need to be completed and data from the trial submitted to the FDA before we could complete our regulatory submission. Before we begin gathering data from commercial use in Europe or an additional clinical trial, we will need to gain concurrence with the FDA on our trial design. We may not be able to reach concurrence on the size, scope or design of the study or we may conclude that the cost of such a study is unacceptable or logistically unachievable. The FDA may not find the data from any additional clinical trials or from commercial use in Europe to be acceptable for approval in the United States. In the United States, studies related to the platelet system disposable and compound manufacturing also need to be completed and included in FDA submissions before the FDA would consider the applications for approval. We have completed Phase IIIa, Phase IIIb and Phase IIIc clinical trials of the plasma system, in the United States, reports for which were filed with the FDA during 2005. We obtained a CE mark approval in Europe of the plasma system in November 2006 and final French approval in May 2007. We have not submitted any applications for regulatory approval of the plasma system in the United States or any other regions other than Europe. In some countries, including several in Europe, we or our customers may be required to perform additional clinical studies or submit manufacturing and marketing applications in order to obtain regulatory approval. 14 Table of Contents As a result of the termination of Phase III clinical trials of our red blood cell system due to the detection of antibody reactivity to red blood cells treated with the INTERCEPT red blood cell system in one patient in the chronic arm of the trials, we have been conducting additional research activities on our red blood cell system to determine if the system can be reconfigured to reduce the potential for antibody reactivity to treated red blood cells. Based upon an internal evaluation of the results to date from these additional research activities and after consulting with regulatory authorities, we initiated a new Phase I trial in 2006 in the United States using a modified red blood cell system before potentially progressing to later-stage clinical trials. We utilized a manual processing system in the Phase I trial, which system is not in a commercially feasible form. Results of the Phase I trial suggest that the modified process in combination with a conventional additive solution results in conditions not suitable for long-term storage of red blood cells treated with the INTERCEPT system, adversely impacting their lifespan. Consequently, we are conducting in vitro and in vivo studies and plan to begin a new Phase I clinical trial in the second half of 2008 to test further modifications to the red blood cell system. A number of trial design, process and product design issues that could impact efficacy, regulatory approval and market acceptance will need to be resolved prior to the initiation of further clinical trials and while those clinical trials are being conducted, including determining the appropriate design of additional Phase I or subsequent Phase II clinical trials, if deemed necessary, and Phase III clinical trials, and developing a commercially feasible red blood cell system, including disposables, hardware and software for implementing the process in blood collection centers. These development initiatives may be costly and time consuming. Even if the project proceeds on course, we would not expect to initiate a Phase III trial for our red blood cell system for approximately two years. A delay in completing such activities could result in a delay in the timely progression to later stage trials. If we are unsuccessful in advancing a modified red blood cell system through clinical trials, resolving process and product design issues or in obtaining subsequent regulatory approvals and acceptable reimbursement rates, we may never realize a return on our development expenses incurred to date in the red blood cell system program. Clinical trials in particular are expensive and have a high risk of failure. Any of our product candidates may fail in the testing phase or may not achieve results sufficient to attain market acceptance, which could prevent us from achieving profitability. We do not know whether we will begin and conduct planned clinical trials on schedule, if at all. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially impact our clinical trials. We also do not know whether planned clinical trials will need to be revamped or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Criteria for regulatory approval in blood safety indications are evolving with competitive advances in the standard of care against which new product candidates are judged, as well as with changing market needs and reimbursement levels. Clinical trial design, including enrollment criteria, endpoints, and anticipated label claims are thus subject to change, even if original objectives are being met. In addition to the reasons stated above, clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a study, delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study agreement terms with prospective clinical sites, delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective clinical site and delays in recruiting subjects to participate in a study. We do not know whether any clinical trials will result in marketable products. Typically, there is a high rate of failure for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials and product candidates emerging from any successful trials would not reach the market for several years. It may take us several years to complete our clinical testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Enrollment criteria for certain of our clinical trials may be quite narrow. Consequently, we may be unable to recruit suitable patients into the trial on a timely basis, if at all. We cannot rely on interim results of trials to predict their final results, and acceptable results in early trials might not be repeated in later trials. Any trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical study or clinical trial or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial to be repeated, require other studies to be performed or cause a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to a program are successful. 15 Table of Contents We have very limited experience in marketing and sales, or in managing a commercial operation in Europe. We have limited experience in managing regulatory affairs, particularly with foreign authorities. Following our agreements with Baxter in February 2006, we became fully responsible for sales, marketing and distribution support of the INTERCEPT Blood System worldwide, except in those Asian territories covered by our agreements with BioOne for the platelet and plasma systems. As a consequence, we no longer rely upon Baxter or Fenwal for sales, marketing, distribution, or regulatory support of the INTERCEPT Blood System. If we fail in our efforts to develop such internal competencies or establish acceptable relationships with third parties on a timely basis, our attempts to commercialize the INTERCEPT Blood System may be irreparably harmed. We must develop, build and manage marketing, sales, distribution, customer service and back office functions necessary to support commercialization of the INTERCEPT Blood System in Europe. Historically, we had a small scientific affairs group that helped support Baxter’s European sales and marketing organization; however, we did not maintain our own independent sales and marketing organization. We may be unable to maintain existing customer relationships established by Baxter or Fenwal as we take on responsibility for sales, marketing and customer service. Beginning in early 2006, we began to recruit a small organization headquartered in The Netherlands dedicated primarily to selling and marketing the platelet and plasma systems in geographies where it is approved. We may be unable to recruit suitable sales, marketing, and supporting personnel on a timely basis, if at all, or retain such personnel thereafter. In addition to adding sales and marketing capabilities, we have needed to develop appropriate inventory and logistics management, receivables and collections, foreign exchange, risk management, human resources, information, local regulatory, and quality systems capabilities. Generally, such capabilities must be built in compliance with EU and local standards and practices, with which we have little experience. We also have had to develop customer service capabilities to insure uninterrupted supply of platelet and plasma system disposable kits, timely calibration and servicing of UVA illuminators, and appropriate and timely resolution of customer complaints. We may be unable to operate a European organization effectively and efficiently, even after Cerus Europe B.V. is fully staffed. Developing sales, marketing and operational capabilities ourselves will increase our costs and the rate of cash consumption and may delay commercialization of our pathogen inactivation systems. We rely on third parties to market, sell and distribute our pathogen inactivation products and to maintain customer relationships in a number of foreign countries. We have entered into contracts, generally on a geographically exclusive basis, with distributors in countries where we have limited abilities to commercialize our pathogen inactivation products directly. We have entered into national distribution agreements in Spain and Portugal, Turkey, Russia, Poland, Greece, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Malaysia, as well as regional distribution agreements in Italy. We rely on these distributors to market and sell the INTERCEPT Blood System, provide customer support, maintain inventories, and adhere to our quality system in all material respects, among other activities. While our contracts generally require distributors to exercise diligence, these distributors may fail to commercialize the INTERCEPT Blood Systems in their respective territories or may do so on terms that are not economic to us. They may fail to sell product inventory they have purchased from us to end customers. They may irreparably harm relationships with local existing and prospective customers and our standing with the blood banking community in general. We may have little recourse, short of termination, in the event that a distributor fails to execute according to our expectations. We must develop regulatory capabilities for clinical-stage and Phase IV trials involving the INTERCEPT Blood System globally. Failure to develop such regulatory capabilities may slow the rate of adoption of the platelet and plasma systems. We need additional resources to support regulatory activities and post-approval trials relating to these products. We may not have adequate internal resources and capabilities to manage Phase IV and post-approval trials and to respond appropriately to possible customer complaints or required regulatory reporting of adverse 16 Table of Contents events arising from the use of the platelet system. We will need to increase our regulatory and trial management resources or contract with independent regulatory consultants, which we may be unable to do on a timely basis. Adding regulatory and trial management resources will result in increased costs and may potentially delay regulatory filings. Delays or inabilities to complete regulatory filings and obtain approvals will also delay or prevent us from being able to recognize sales of our products and attaining profitability. We will continue to rely on Fenwal for manufacturing and supplying components of our platelet and plasma systems for a limited period of time. Over a longer period, we will need to identify, select and qualify third party sources of supply for the INTERCEPT Blood System, including the INTERCEPT red blood cell system. We are dependent on Fenwal to manufacture the platelet and plasma systems through the end of 2008 and certain components of the two systems through the end of 2009, subject to extension under specified conditions, but have not yet established a source of supply for the INTERCEPT Blood System for 2010 and beyond. In March 2007 Baxter sold its Transfusion Therapies business, the unit of Baxter that has performed many of the manufacturing and supply chain activities related to our relationship with Baxter, to a new company, Fenwal Inc. We have been informed by Baxter that Fenwal has assumed Baxter’s obligations to us under the manufacturing agreement. However, Fenwal may fail to manufacture an adequate supply of components, Intersol additive solution or devices of the INTERCEPT Blood System or to do so on a cost effective basis, which would subject us to the risks described above. Certain components of the INTERCEPT Blood System are currently manufactured or assembled at facilities not owned by Fenwal. Under our agreements, Fenwal will continue to be obligated to supply illuminators and disposable kits associated with the platelet and plasma systems to us generally through 2008 and for certain components through 2009. Failure to produce an adequate supply of components or devices of the INTERCEPT Blood System would subject us to the risks described above. In addition, because the components of the INTERCEPT Blood System are manufactured and assembled at multiple facilities owned by both Fenwal and Baxter leading up to final assembly, Fenwal and Baxter will remain interdependent with respect to the INTERCEPT Blood System supply chain. Fenwal and Baxter may fail to coordinate or meet interdependent supply chain obligations, leading to a failure to manufacture an adequate supply of components or devices of the INTERCEPT Blood System, which would also subject us to the risks described below. While we have had discussions with Fenwal and third parties, we have not successfully concluded negotiations to assure an uninterrupted supply of the INTERCEPT Blood System beyond the expiration of the current supply agreement with Fenwal. Failure to do so would lead to material adverse events, including loss of contracts, customer relationships and our ability to operate as a going concern. Fenwal manufactures our platelet and plasma systems in facilities that are not FDA-approved. Our agreements do not require Fenwal to validate these manufacturing facilities with the FDA. In order to be sold in the United States, our systems would be required to be manufactured in an FDA-approved facility. FDA validation of a manufacturing facility, whether owned by Fenwal or by another party, will be costly and time-consuming. We rely on third parties for manufacturing and supplying components of our platelet and plasma systems. We will also be dependent on Baxter and Fenwal to transfer know-how relevant to the INTERCEPT Blood System; however, certain of Fenwal’s materials, manufacturing processes and methods are proprietary to Fenwal or Baxter. We may be unable to establish alternate sources of supply to Fenwal without having to redesign certain elements of the platelet and plasma systems. Such redesign may be costly, time consuming and require further regulatory review, which would delay our ability to commercialize the platelet and plasma systems. Fenwal is not obligated to provide support for development and testing of improvements or changes we may make to the INTERCEPT Blood System. We may be unable to identify, select, and qualify such manufacturers or those third parties able to provide support for development and testing activities on a timely basis or enter into contracts with them on reasonable terms, if at all. If we conclude that supply of the INTERCEPT Blood System or components from Fenwal is uncertain, we may choose to build inventories of raw materials or work-in-process 17 Table of Contents components, which would consume capital resources and may cause our supply chain to be less efficient. We have recently contracted directly with third-party suppliers of certain components to the platelet and plasma systems which Fenwal had used historically in an effort to make the supply of components more reliable, though doing so will increase our investment in raw material and work-in-process inventory and subject us to minimum purchase requirements in 2008. Suppliers of these components may not meet quality specifications we have set, which would cause a disruption in supply and may lead to lost sales and irreparable damage to our customer relationships. Moreover, the inclusion of components manufactured by new suppliers could require us to seek new or updated approvals from regulatory authorities, which could result in delays in product delivery. We may not receive any such required regulatory approvals. Our potential remedies against Fenwal and Baxter or other manufacturers may be inadequate in assuring that Fenwal and Baxter meet their contractual obligations. In the event of a failure by Fenwal, Baxter or other manufacturers to perform their obligations to supply components of the INTERCEPT Blood System to us, damages recoverable by us may be insufficient to compensate us for the full loss of business opportunity. Our supply agreement with Baxter, assumed by Fenwal, and other supply agreements contain limitations on incidental and consequential damages that we may recover. A supplier’s potential liability in the event of non-performance may not be sufficient to compel the supplier to continue to act in conformity with our agreements. The platelet system is not compatible with some commercial platelet collection methods and platforms and platelet storage solutions. The equipment and materials used to collect platelets vary by manufacturer and by geographic region. Platelets may be collected from a single donor by apheresis using an automated collection machine. Apheresis devices currently used in the United States and European markets differ, among other characteristics, in their ability to collect platelets in reduced volumes of plasma. Platelet concentrates may also be prepared from whole blood by pooling together platelets from multiple donors. There are two commonly used methods for preparing whole blood platelets: the buffy coat method, which is used extensively in Europe and Canada, and the pooled random donor method, which is used in the United States and to a more limited extent in Europe. Our system for platelets is designed to work with platelets collected using a proprietary platelet storage solution, called Intersol, manufactured by Fenwal. For platelets collected by apheresis, the INTERCEPT platelet system is most compatible with Fenwal’s apheresis platelet collection system, because it facilitates the use of Intersol. For platelets prepared from whole blood, our platelet system is most compatible with the buffy coat collection method, again because this method facilitates the use of Intersol as an additive solution to the platelet concentrate. As a result, we have conducted most of our clinical studies using either Baxter’s equipment or buffy coat platelets. More recently, we have begun conducting studies in Europe supporting the use of the platelet system in combination with other collection and preparation platforms. Fenwal may be required to obtain separate regulatory approval for Intersol in the United States and in countries which do not recognize CE mark approval before we would be allowed to sell Intersol to customers of the INTERCEPT Blood System in those countries. In order to address the entire market in the United States, we would need to develop and test additional configurations of the INTERCEPT platelet system. Our efforts to develop the platelet system were initially focused on apheresis platelets collected on Fenwal’s automated collection platform. We estimate that the majority of platelets used in the United States are collected by apheresis, though a significant minority is prepared from pooled random donor platelets derived from whole blood collections. We have made our systems compatible with prevalent commercial platelet collection methods in order to address markets in Europe, Russia and the Middle East, where we have begun to commercialize the INTERCEPT Blood System. In order to gain regulatory approval in certain geographies for a platelet pathogen inactivation system compatible with random donor platelets, we will need to perform additional product development and testing, including additional clinical trials. These development activities would increase our costs significantly, and may not be successful. 18 Table of Contents Fenwal has committed to us to make Intersol collection and pooling products and conversion kits available to customers. However, Fenwal may not make such products or its apheresis collection system available for sale in certain countries and has elected to discontinue sales efforts for its apheresis collection system in Japan. Other manufacturers supplying blood component collection platforms to the market may resist our efforts to make the INTERCEPT Blood System compatible with their platforms. Making our platelet system readily compatible with the apheresis collection system manufactured by Haemonetics Corp., a supplier of automated blood collection systems will require certain changes in the Haemonetics device, and there can be no assurance that Haemonetics will undertake this effort on a timely basis or in a commercially reasonable form. Gambro, Inc., or Gambro, another major supplier of automated platelet collection systems, received a CE mark of its own system for pathogen inactivation of platelets in late 2007. For competitive reasons, Gambro may have little or no incentive to make its apheresis collection system compatible with our platelet system. Attaining compatibility with collection platforms manufactured by others may require adaptations to either the INTERCEPT Blood System or to the collection platforms, which may be difficult to engineer, expensive to implement and test, require additional clinical trials, cause delays in regulatory approval and/or be commercially unattractive to pursue. These development activities will increase our costs significantly, and may not be successful. Market acceptance of the INTERCEPT Blood System may be delayed until the system receives regulatory approval for use on such other equipment, if required. Because the INTERCEPT Blood System products have not been manufactured on more than a limited commercial scale, we face manufacturing uncertainties that could limit their commercialization. If our third-party manufacturers fail to produce our products or compounds satisfactorily, at acceptable cost and in sufficient quantities, we may incur delays, shortfalls and additional expenses, which may in turn result in permanent harm to our customer relations. The INTERCEPT Blood System products, including many of the components, have been manufactured on a commercial scale on only a limited basis. Fenwal relies on third parties, including Baxter, to manufacture and assemble some of the platelet and plasma system components, many of which are customized and have not been manufactured on a commercial scale. Fenwal has produced some pathogen inactivation systems in modest commercial quantities, but may not be able to manufacture and assemble other systems or in larger quantities, or do so economically. Because of low sales volumes and other reasons, Fenwal’s costs to manufacture commercial components for the platelet and plasma systems have been greater than we previously anticipated and may continue to rise. It is uncertain what effect Fenwal’s independence from Baxter will have on its cost structure or on transfer prices from Baxter to Fenwal and costs ultimately passed on to us. These issues may result in reducing our potential gross profit margin from platelet and plasma system sales. We are in the initial stages of commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System and may not accurately forecast demand for the INTERCEPT Blood System. We may be unable to contract with third parties to supply adequate numbers of platelet and plasma systems and components to meet demand and, as a result, supply to our customers may be interrupted. If Fenwal or third-party manufacturers fail to produce our products or Intersol products satisfactorily, at acceptable costs and in sufficient quantities, we may incur delays, shortfalls and additional expenses, which may in turn result in permanent harm to our customer relations. Fenwal and we purchase certain key components of the INTERCEPT Blood System from a limited number of suppliers. Contracts for the long-term supply of certain components have not yet been signed. It would be expensive and time-consuming to establish additional or replacement suppliers for these components. Some components of the INTERCEPT Blood System, including components of the UVA illuminator device, are no longer manufactured, which will require Fenwal or us to identify and qualify replacement components and may require that we conduct additional studies, which could include clinical trials, to demonstrate equivalency or validate any required design or component changes. If Fenwal or we are unable to identify and supply replacement components, we may be unable to supply products to our customers. If we were required to redesign the products, our development costs would increase, and our programs and commercialization efforts could be delayed significantly. 19 Table of Contents We intend to use third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of the chemical compounds to be used in our products. These compounds have not yet been produced in quantities sufficient to support commercialization for all regions in which we may market our products. We have an agreement with a manufacturer to produce commercial quantities of amotosalen, a proprietary compound used in our platelet and plasma systems. We currently do not have any third-party manufacturing agreements in place for commercial production of compounds used in our red blood cell system. Any new or additional commercial manufacturer will need to develop new methods and processes to manufacture these compounds on a commercial scale and demonstrate to us, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that its commercial scale manufacturing processes comply with government regulations and that its compounds are equivalent to originally licensed compounds in order for us to maintain commercial licensure of our products. It may be difficult or impossible to economically manufacture our products on a commercial scale. Our platelet and plasma systems have received regulatory approval for two-year shelf lives. Certain existing inventory has a shorter labeled shelf life. We and our distributors may be unable to ship product to customers out of our inventory prior to the expiration of product shelf life, which would require that we destroy or consume the outdated inventory in product demonstration activities at our expense. We have used prototype components in our preclinical studies and clinical trials of the INTERCEPT red blood cell system and have not completed the components’ commercial design. We will be required to identify and enter into agreements with third parties to manufacture the red blood cell system and related blood component storage solutions. The system disposables and instruments of our red blood cell system that we used in our preclinical studies and clinical trials in the United States historically and those we are now planning to use in an upcoming Phase I red blood cell trial are prototypes of systems to be used in the final products. As a result, we expect regulatory authorities will require us to perform additional preclinical and clinical studies using the commercial versions of the systems to demonstrate the acceptability of the commercial configuration and the equivalence of the prototypes and the commercial products’ design, which may increase our expenses and delay the commercialization of our products. We are testing additional modifications of the red blood cell system to improve the lifespan of treated red blood cells. In vitro and in vivo studies of such modifications to the red blood cell system may not be indicative of red blood cell lifespan in humans. Additional early-stage trials will be necessary to determine whether our modifications, including these new approaches, may lead to a product candidate with acceptable commercial characteristics. We also intend to assess whether such modifications would be acceptable clinically, economically and/or operationally to potential customers. We may determine that although the modified red blood cell system may overcome technical issues encountered in the past, it may not be commercially feasible from potential customers’ perspectives. If we fail to develop commercial versions of the INTERCEPT red blood cell system on schedule, our potential revenue would be delayed or diminished and our competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do. In addition, the design and engineering effort required to complete the final commercial product is substantial and time-consuming. As with any complex development effort, we expect to encounter design, engineering and manufacturing issues. Such issues have previously arisen, sometimes unexpectedly, and solutions to these issues have not always been readily forthcoming. Additional unforeseen design, engineering and manufacturing issues may arise in the future, which could increase the development cost and delay commercialization of our products. Except for very limited manufacturing of disposable components, Fenwal is not obligated to provide manufacturing services related to the red blood cell system. We will need to identify parties to provide those manufacturing services related to our red blood cell system. It may be difficult to enter into these types of agreements on reasonable terms. In particular, it will be time-consuming for other manufacturers to develop the capability to manufacture the INTERCEPT Blood System products and blood component storage solutions economically and to gain regulatory approval to do so for commercial use. We may be unable to identify and contract with manufacturers that can make our products cost-effectively, which would delay our efforts to commercialize the red blood cell system, even if we successfully complete clinical development. 20 Table of Contents We rely on BioOne for commercialization of our platelet and plasma systems in many Asian countries. Baxter and we have licensed to BioOne rights to commercialize the platelet and plasma systems in Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea, Vietnam, Thailand, and Singapore. BioOne is solely responsible for obtaining regulatory approvals, marketing and selling the platelet and plasma systems in those countries. We understand Fenwal has assumed the rights and obligations of Baxter with regard to Baxter’s agreements with BioOne. BioOne is dependent on Fenwal for the manufacture and supply of the platelet and plasma systems. We understand that Fenwal has not maintained Baxter’s CE mark registration for the platelet system after it expired in mid-2007; however, Fenwal may choose to apply for CE marks for the platelet and plasma systems under its own label. If Fenwal elects not to obtain such CE marks, BioOne will be required to obtain regulatory approval or import licenses on its own in countries within its licensed territory. BioOne may be unable to qualify the platelet and plasma systems for sale in certain countries in its territory in the absence of CE marks being held by Fenwal, even if CE marks are held by us. BioOne has made little progress to date in commercializing the platelet and plasma systems in Asian territories. Because we only have a minority investment interest in BioOne, we lack the ability to significantly influence BioOne, and are dependent on BioOne’s performance to realize milestone and royalty revenue from commercialization of our platelet and plasma systems in those countries. In Japan, regulatory authorities may require our platelet and plasma systems to be widely adopted commercially in Europe or approved by the FDA before the platelet and plasma systems are considered for approval in Japan, which would delay or prevent BioOne from achieving significant product revenue. In July 2007, BioOne raised limited additional capital in order to fund curtailed operations. At these reduced operating levels, BioOne’s abilities to commercialize the platelet and plasma systems in its Asian territories will be compromised. There is no assurance that BioOne will be able to attract additional required capital in the future to successfully commercialize those products licensed from Fenwal and us. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our products and product candidates, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. If competitors encounter difficulties or failures in human clinical trials or in commercial settings, we may face additional clinical, regulatory, and commercial challenges. We expect our products to encounter significant competition. The INTERCEPT Blood System products may compete with other approaches to blood safety currently in use, as well as with future products that may be developed by others. Our success will depend in part on our ability to respond quickly to medical and technological changes brought about by the development and introduction of new products. Product development is risky and uncertain, and we cannot assure you that we will develop our products successfully. Competitors’ products or technologies may make our products obsolete or non-competitive before we are able to generate any significant revenue. In addition, competitors or potential competitors may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. They may also have greater experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials and other regulatory approval procedures. Several companies are developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for products that will directly compete with or reduce the market for our pathogen inactivation systems. A number of companies are specifically focusing on alternative strategies for pathogen inactivation in platelets and plasma. In Europe, several companies, including Grifols S.A., Octapharma AG and MacoPharma International GmbH, are developing or selling commercial pathogen inactivation systems or services to treat fresh frozen plasma. Navigant Biotechnologies, a wholly owned subsidiary of Gambro Group, is developing a pathogen inactivation system for blood products and has been issued a CE mark for a pathogen reduction system for platelets. New methods of testing whole blood for specific pathogens have been approved by the FDA and in Europe, as have tests for bacteria in platelets. Continued delays in commercialization of our platelet and plasma systems in France and Germany may impact our ability to compete with bacterial testing for platelets. Tests have recently 21 Table of Contents been approved to detect West Nile Virus in blood products. Other groups are developing rapid, point-of-care bacterial tests, synthetic blood product substitutes and products to stimulate the growth of platelets. Development and commercialization of any of these or other related technologies could limit the potential market for our products. We may be liable and we may need to withdraw our products from the market if our products harm people. We may be liable if an accident occurs in our controlled use of hazardous materials. We are exposed to potential liability risks inherent in the testing and marketing of medical devices and pharmaceutical products. We may be liable if any of our products cause injury, illness or death. Although we will have completed rigorous preclinical and clinical safety testing prior to marketing our products, there may be harmful effects caused by our products that we are unable to identify in preclinical or clinical testing. In particular, unforeseen, rare reactions or adverse side effects related to long-term use of our products may not be observed until the products are in widespread commercial use. Because of the limited duration and number of patients receiving blood components treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System products in clinical trials, it is possible that harmful effects of our products not observed in clinical and preclinical testing could be discovered after a marketing approval has been received. Later discovery of problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in additional restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. We are subject to risks and costs of product recall, which include not only potential out-of-pocket costs, but also potential interruption to our supply chain. In such an event, our customer relations would be harmed and we would incur unforeseen losses. We maintain product liability insurance, but do not know whether the insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including certain hazardous chemicals, radioactive materials and infectious pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis viruses. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials are adequate and comply with regulatory requirements, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for any damages that result. Virtually all of our research and development activities and the significant majority of our general and administrative activities are performed in or managed from a single site that may be subject to lengthy business interruption in the event of a severe earthquake. We also may suffer loss of computerized information and may be unable to make timely filings with regulatory agencies in the event of catastrophic failure of our data storage and backup systems. Virtually all of our research and development activities and the significant majority of our general and administrative activities are performed in or managed from our facilities in Concord, California, which are within an active earthquake fault zone. Should a severe earthquake occur, we might be unable to occupy our facilities or conduct research and development and general and administrative activities in support of our business and products until such time as our facilities could be repaired and made operational. Our property and casualty and business interruption insurance in general does not cover losses caused by earthquakes. While we have taken certain measures to protect our scientific, technological and commercial assets, a lengthy or costly disruption due to an earthquake would have a material adverse effect on us. We have also taken measures to limit damage that may occur from the loss of computerized data due to power outage, system or component failure, or corruption of data files. However, we may lose critical computerized data, which may be difficult or impossible to recreate, which may harm our business. We may be unable to make timely filings with regulatory agencies in the event of catastrophic failure of our data storage and backup systems, which may subject us to fines or adverse consequences, up to and including loss of our abilities to conduct business. 22 Table of Contents We have only a limited operating history, and we expect to continue to generate losses. We may never achieve a profitable level of operations. To date, we have engaged primarily in research and development. Our development and selling, general, and administrative expenses have resulted in substantial losses each year since our inception with the exception of the year ended December 31, 2005. In 2005, we realized a $22.1 million nonrecurring gain associated with the restructuring of a loan payable in 2005 and, as a result of this gain, we recorded net income of $13.1 million in 2005. At December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $356.7 million. Except for the platelet and plasma systems, we have not received significant revenue from product revenue. The platelet and plasma systems are not yet approved in the United States or in many other countries around the world. The red blood cell system is in early stage clinical development and may never emerge from the clinical development stage as a marketed product. We may be required to reduce the sales price for our products in order to make our products economically attractive to our customers and to governmental and private payors, which would reduce and may eliminate our gross profit on sales. Pricing levels may differ widely from country to country, depending on economic, social and industry practices specific to each country. At our present low unit sales levels of the platelet and plasma systems, our costs to manufacture, distribute, market, sell, support and administer the systems are in excess of revenue. We may be unable to increase sales to a level sufficient to generate profit contribution. Because the contracts with large, public-sector customers, such as the EFS, for the INTERCEPT Blood System may not be confidential due to the public tender process, their terms may set contractual precedents that would not be acceptable to us if applied to contracts with our other customers. Historically, we received substantially all of our revenue from our agreements with our development partners and from federal research grants and cooperative agreements and were required to conduct significant research, development, clinical testing and regulatory compliance activities for each of these products. Only in the most recent year ended December 31, 2007, has our product sales revenue exceeded revenue from our agreements with our development partners and from federal research grants and cooperative agreements. Contribution from product sales is unlikely to exceed the costs we incur in research, development, and commercialization of the INTERCEPT Blood System for the foreseeable future. We expect our losses to continue at least until the INTERCEPT Blood System is commercialized more broadly and achieves more significant market acceptance. Costs of developing and testing the red blood cell system in later stage human clinical trials will extend the period during which we expect to operate at a loss. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our future operations, we will not be able to develop product candidates in our pipeline. Our product development programs and product commercialization efforts are capital-intensive. We may need to reduce or stop further investment in specific research and development or sales and marketing activities if we are unable to obtain additional capital or if any of our development programs are determined by us to be economically unfeasible. A product or program may be determined to be uneconomic if the commercial opportunity is insufficient to justify the investment required to develop and market the product or for other reasons. We expect that our spending in support of research, development and commercialization of the platelet, plasma, and red blood cell systems will be in excess of contribution from product sales and development funding for such programs from third parties over the next year. We may experience higher than anticipated working capital requirements, particularly if we are unable to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis or choose to maintain safety stocks of inventory of the platelet and plasma systems to mitigate risks of supply shortages. As a result of these factors, further product development and commercialization of the INTERCEPT Blood System may take longer and be more expensive than we previously anticipated. We expect to continue to expend substantial funds in support of our operations for the foreseeable future. Our cash, liquidity and capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the development progress and costs of our programs, payments from collaborators, funding from agencies of the United States government, costs related to creating, maintaining and defending our intellectual property position, regulatory approval and successful commercialization of our product candidates, competitive developments and regulatory factors. Through December 31, 2007, we had been awarded $41.7 million in funding under cooperative agreements with the Department of Defense, and have received $41.3 million in proceeds from these awards. We also 23 Table of Contents received funding under grants from the National Institutes of Health, largely in support of the immunotherapy business that we spun-off in late 2007. Further funding awarded under federal grants and cooperative agreements for the INTERCEPT Blood Systems will decline significantly when compared to historic levels. It is subject to the authorization of funds and approval of our research plans by various organizations within the federal government, including the U.S. Congress. The general economic environment, coupled with tight Federal budgets, has led to a general decline in the amount of government funding. Additionally, we no longer are deemed to be a small business for purposes of being eligible for certain grants administered by the National Institutes of Health and regulated by Small Business Administration. Historically, a significant portion of our grant revenue came from awards surrounding our former immunotherapy business. We anticipate that all grants and awards surrounding our immunotherapy business will be transferred to Anza, and as a result, we will no longer be eligible to receive proceeds from these awards. If we are unable to obtain Federal grant and cooperative agreement funding for future blood safety activities at levels similar to past funding, we may need to reduce our operating expenses, which would delay progress in some of our development programs. In addition, we are required separately to administer and account for our work under government contracts and grants on an on-going basis as a condition to accepting government funding which places administrative, accounting and reporting burdens on us beyond those we have assumed as a public company. If we fail to comply with applicable governmental administrative, accounting and reporting regulations with respect to these grants and cooperative agreements, funds currently available to us may be reduced or lost. These conditions may also result in increased selling, general, and administrative spending beyond what we have experienced. We may receive no economic benefit from the spin-off of our immunotherapy business. In November 2007, we spun-off our immunotherapy business to Anza Therapeutics, Inc. In exchange for contributed tangible and intangible assets, we received an equity interest of approximately 15.5% of Anza's fully diluted equity, including shares currently held in escrow which we expect to receive. In addition to equity, we are eligible to receive future cash milestone payments of up to in excess of $90.0 million, as well as royalty payments, if vaccine candidates generated from the transferred assets are successfully developed and commercialized. There is no assurance that the equity will have monetary value at such time we are allowed to sell it or that any of the milestone or royalty payments will ever be made to us. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or operate our business without infringing intellectual property rights of others. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection on our products and successfully defending our products against third-party challenges. Our technology will be protected from unauthorized use only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents or effectively maintained as trade secrets. As a result, our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain patents; • protect trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that our patents or patents that we license from others will be enforceable and afford protection against competitors. Our patents or patent applications, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our patent rights may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Others may independently develop technologies similar to ours or independently duplicate our technologies. For example, a United States patent issued to a third-party covers methods to remove psoralen compounds from blood products. We have reviewed the patent and believe there exist substantial questions concerning its validity. We cannot be certain, however, that a court would hold the patent to be invalid or not infringed by our platelet or plasma systems, if and when those product are sold in the 24 Table of Contents United States. Our key blood safety patents generally expire at various dates between 2012 and 2018. Recent patent applications will, if granted, result in patents with later expiration dates. In addition, we have a license from Fenwal under United States and foreign patents relating to the INTERCEPT Blood System, which expire from 2010 to 2022. Due to the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of our potential products, our patents may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization. This would reduce or eliminate any advantage of the patents. We cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. We may need to license the right to use third-party patents and intellectual property to continue development and commercialization of our products. We may not be able to acquire such required licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ patents, or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. We may face litigation to defend against claims of infringement, assert claims of infringement, enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how or determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. Patent litigation is costly. In addition, we may require interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions relating to our patent applications. Litigation or interference proceedings could be expensive and time consuming, and we could be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights. We may rely, in certain circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees and certain contractors. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach or our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others, disputes also may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. As our international operations grow, we may be subject to adverse fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and foreign currencies. Consequently, we may suffer losses. Our international operations are subject to risks typical of an international business, including, among other factors: differing political, economic, and regulatory climates, different tax structures, and foreign exchange volatility. We do not currently enter into any hedging contracts to normalize the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations. As a result, our future results could be materially affected by changes in these or other factors. Product sales of our blood safety products are typically made in Europe and generally are invoiced to customers in Euros. In addition, we incur operating expenses in Euros and other foreign currencies. Our exposure to foreign exchange rate volatility is a direct result of our product sales, cash collection and expenses to support our international operations. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations are recorded as a component of Interest (Expense) and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. Significant fluctuations in the volatility of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may materially affect our results of operations. Currently we do not have any near-term plans to enter into a formal hedging program to mitigate the effects of foreign currency volatility. The market price of our stock may be highly volatile. The market prices for our securities and those of other emerging medical device and biotechnology companies have been, and may continue to be, volatile. For example, during the period from January 1, 2005, to December 31, 2007, the sale price of our common stock as quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market fluctuated within a range from a low of $2.93 to a high of $14.76. Announcements may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Such announcements may include: • decisions regarding reimbursement and commercial adoption by customers, national blood services or governmental bodies; 25 Table of Contents • biological or medical discoveries; • technological innovations or new commercial services by us or our competitors; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; • regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries; • status of development partnerships; • dilution from future issuances of common stock, including through the exercise of vested stock options; • public concern as to the safety of new technologies; • general market conditions; • comments made by analysts, including changes in analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; and • quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and financial results. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and medical device companies, and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may fail to comply fully with elements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of this Act could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accountants attesting to the effectiveness of our internal controls. These requirements extend to the operations of our subsidiary in Europe. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude in future periods that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we cannot favorably assess, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 