ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We rely on the value of our brands, particularly Monster, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing. Our success depends on our brands and their value. Our business would be harmed if we were unable to adequately protect our brand names, particularly Monster. We believe that maintaining and expanding the Monster brand is an important aspect of our efforts to attract and expand our user and client base. We also believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the growing number of Internet sites and the relatively low barriers to entry. We have spent considerable money and resources to date on the establishment and maintenance of the Monster brand. We may spend increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, advertising, marketing and other brand-building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of the Monster brand. Despite this, we may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of the Monster brand and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of the Monster brand in a cost-effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed significantly. We are also susceptible to others imitating our products, particularly Monster, and infringing on our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, upon which we are dependent. In addition, the laws of foreign countries do not necessarily protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Imitation of our products, particularly Monster, or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise reduce our revenues. Our operations have been and will be affected by future global economic fluctuations. The general level of economic activity in the regions and industries in which we operate significantly affects demand for our services. When economic activity slows, many companies hire fewer employees. Therefore, if there is an economic downturn in the future, especially in regions or industries where our operations are heavily concentrated, our business, financial condition and operating results could be significantly harmed. Further, we may face increased pricing pressures during such periods. There can be no assurance that during these periods our results of operations will not be significantly harmed. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: •the timing and amount of existing clients' subscription renewals; •entering new markets; •enhancements to existing services; •the hiring cycles of employers; •changes in general economic conditions, such as recessions, that could affect recruiting efforts generally and online recruiting efforts in particular; •the magnitude and timing of marketing initiatives; •the maintenance and development of our strategic relationships; •our ability to manage our anticipated growth and expansion; •our ability to attract and retain customers; 10 •technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the Internet generally or the operation of our products and services specifically; and •the timing and integration of our acquisitions. We face risks relating to developing technology, including the Internet. The market for Internet products and services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. The emerging character of these products and services and their rapid evolution will require our continuous improvement in the performance, features and reliability of our Internet content, particularly in response to competitive offerings. We may not be successful in responding quickly, cost effectively and sufficiently to these developments. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet technologies or standards could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our websites and services. This could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The online recruiting market continues to evolve. The adoption of online recruiting and job seeking services, particularly among those companies that have historically relied upon traditional recruiting methods, requires the acceptance of a new way of conducting business, exchanging information, advertising and applying for jobs. Many of our potential customers, particularly smaller companies, have little or no experience using the Internet as a recruiting tool, and only select segments of the job-seeking population have experience using the Internet to look for jobs. Companies may not continue to allocate portions of their budgets to Internet- based recruiting and job seekers may not use online job seeking methods. As a result, we may not be able to effectively compete with traditional recruiting and job seeking methods. If Internet-based recruiting does not remain widely accepted or if we are not able to anticipate changes in the online recruiting market, our business, financial condition and operating results could be significantly harmed. New Internet services or enhancements that we have offered or may offer in the future may contain design flaws or other defects that could require expensive modifications or result in a loss of client confidence. Any disruption in Internet access or in the Internet generally could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Slower response times or system failures may also result from straining the capacity of our software, hardware or network infrastructure. To the extent that we do not effectively address any capacity constraints or system failures, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be significantly harmed. Trends that could have a critical impact on our success include: •rapidly changing technology in online recruiting; •evolving industry standards relating to online recruiting; •developments and changes relating to the Internet; •evolving government regulations; •competing products and services that offer increased functionality; and •changes in employer and job seeker requirements. We rely heavily on our information systems and if our access to this technology is impaired or interrupted, or we fail to further develop our technology, our business could be harmed. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information, including our client and candidate databases. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development, either 11 internally or through independent consultants, of new proprietary software. Our inability to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively, or any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities, for any reason, could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our markets are highly competitive. The markets for our services are highly competitive. They are characterized by pressures to: •reduce prices; •incorporate new capabilities and technologies; and •accelerate job completion schedules. Furthermore, we face competition from a number of sources. These sources include: •traditional media companies, including newspapers; •Internet portals and other job-related websites; •specialized and integrated marketing communication firms; and •national and regional advertising agencies. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have long operating histories, and some may have greater financial resources, management, technological development, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, our ability to maintain our existing clients and attract new clients depends to a large degree on the quality of our services and our reputation among our clients and potential clients. Due to competition, we may experience reduced margins on our products and services, loss of market share or less use of Monster by job seekers and our customers. If we are not able to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a result of these and other factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We have no significant proprietary technology that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering the online advertising or recruitment advertising markets. Existing or future competitors may develop or offer services and products which provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over our services. This could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We are vulnerable to intellectual property infringement claims brought against us by others and we may not have sufficient protection for our own intellectual property. Successful intellectual property infringement claims against us could result in monetary liability or a material disruption in the conduct of our business. We cannot be certain that our products, content and brand names do not or will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We expect that infringement claims in our markets will increase in number. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we were found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of a third party, we could be liable to that party for license fees, royalty payments, profits or damages, and the owner of the intellectual property might be able to prevent us from using the technology or software in the future. If the amounts of these payments were significant or we were prevented from incorporating certain technology or software into our products, our business could be significantly harmed. 12 We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. As a result, due to the diversion of management time, the expense required to defend against any claim and the potential liability associated with any lawsuit, any significant litigation could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or maintain our rights to use key technologies of third parties, our business may be harmed. A degree of uncertainty exists concerning the application and enforcement of copyright and trade dress laws to the Internet, and existing laws may not provide us adequate protection for our original content or the appearance of our Internet sites. In addition, because copyright laws do not prohibit independent development of similar content, copyright laws may not provide us with any competitive advantage. We have obtained one patent and applied for other patents with respect to certain of our software systems, methods and related technologies, but our pending applications may not be granted and any patents issued to us may in the future be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted thereunder may not provide us with a competitive advantage. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights could involve significant expense and could be difficult or impossible, particularly given the global nature of the Internet and the fact that the laws of certain other countries may afford us little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. In addition, we rely on certain technology licensed from third parties, and may be required to license additional technology in the future for use in managing our Internet sites and providing related services to users and advertising customers. Our ability to generate fees from Internet commerce may also depend on data encryption and authentication technologies that we may be required to license from third parties. These third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable commercial terms or at all. The inability to enter into and maintain any of these technology licenses could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Computer viruses may cause our systems to incur delays or interruptions. Computer viruses may cause our systems to incur delays or other service interruptions and could damage our reputation which in turn, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our system's continuing and uninterrupted performance is critical to our success. Customers and job seekers may become dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide our services to them, including failures affecting our ability to serve Web page requests without significant delay to the viewer. Sustained or repeated system failures would reduce the attractiveness of our solutions to customers and job seekers and result in reduced traffic or contract terminations, fee rebates and make goods, thereby reducing revenues. Moreover, if a computer virus affecting our system is highly publicized, our reputation could be significantly damaged and our visitor traffic may decrease. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties and unanticipated liabilities. Historically, we have grown in part by making acquisitions. Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets. Our acquisitions can be accompanied by a number of risks, including: •the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of our acquired companies into our operations; •the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; 13 •the difficulty of integrating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; •the impairment of relationships with customers and partners of the acquired companies or our customers and partners as a result of the integration of acquired operations; •the impairment of relationships with employees of the acquired companies or our employees as a result of integration of new management personnel; •the difficulty of integrating the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; •in the case of foreign acquisitions, uncertainty regarding foreign laws and regulations and difficulty integrating operations and systems as a result of cultural, systems and operational differences; and •the impact of known potential liabilities or unknown liabilities associated with the acquired companies. Our failure to be successful in addressing these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. We have had and may face future difficulties managing growth. Historically, our business grew rapidly, both internally and through acquisitions. This expansion resulted in substantial growth in the number of our employees, and put a significant strain on our management and operations. If our business grows rapidly again in the future, we expect it to result in increased responsibility for management personnel, and incremental strain on our operations, and financial and management systems. Our success under such conditions will depend to a significant extent on the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to operate effectively both independently and as a group. If we are not able to manage future growth, our business, financial condition and operating results may be harmed. Our divested businesses have agreed to indemnify us of liabilities that are related to their operations. If one or more of those businesses fails to meet its obligations, our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. On March 31, 2003 we completed the spin-off of Hudson Highland Group, Inc. ("HH Group") to our stockholders and on June 1, 2005 we sold our Directional Marketing business. As a result of these divestitures, each business has agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities related to their operations. If, for whatever reason, a claim is made for which we do not receive indemnification, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We face risks relating to our foreign operations. We conduct operations in 26 countries, including Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Korea, Spain and the United Kingdom. Approximately 29%, 27% and 26%, of our total revenue was earned outside of the United States in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Such amounts are collected in the local currency. In addition, we generally pay operating expenses in the corresponding local currency. Therefore, we are at risk for exchange rate fluctuations between such local currencies and the United States dollar. We are also subject to taxation in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, transactions between our foreign subsidiaries and us may be subject to United States and foreign withholding taxes. Applicable tax rates in foreign jurisdictions differ from those of the United States, and change 14 periodically. The extent, if any, to which we will receive credit in the United States for taxes we pay in foreign jurisdictions will depend upon the application of limitations set forth in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as well as the provisions of any tax treaties that may exist between the United States and such foreign jurisdictions. Our current or future international operations might not succeed for a number of reasons including: •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •competition from local recruiting services; •operational issues such as longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; •seasonal reductions in business activity; •language and cultural differences; •legal uncertainties inherent in transnational operations such as export and import regulations, tariffs and other trade barriers; •taxation issues; •changes in trading policies and regulatory requirements; •issues relating to uncertainties of laws and enforcement relating to the regulation and protection of intellectual property; and •general political and economic trends. Also, if we are forced to discontinue any of our international operations, we could incur material costs to close down such operations. We depend on our key management personnel. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management. The loss of the services of our executive officers could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, if one or more key employees join a competitor or form a competing company, the resulting loss of existing or potential clients could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We are influenced by a principal stockholder. Andrew J. McKelvey beneficially owns all of our outstanding Class B common stock and a large number of shares of our common stock, which, together with his Class B common stock ownership, represents approximately 33% of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock as of December 31, 2005. Mr. McKelvey can strongly influence the election of all of the members of our board. He can also exercise significant influence over our business and affairs. This includes any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of our assets, whether or not we incur indebtedness, the issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities and the payment of dividends with respect to common stock. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible 15 assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. This may adversely impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2005, our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets were $735.7 million. Effects of anti-takeover provisions could inhibit the acquisition of Monster Worldwide by others. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could, together or separately: •discourage potential acquisition proposals; •delay or prevent a change in control; and •limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In particular, our board of directors may authorize the issuance of up to 800,000 shares of preferred stock with rights and privileges that might be senior to our common stock, without the consent of the holders of the common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide, among other things, for advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. There is volatility in our stock price. The market for our common stock has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Factors such as announcements of variations in our quarterly financial results and fluctuations in revenue could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, some of whom have been granted equity compensation. The market price of our common stock can be influenced by stockholders' expectations about the ability of our business to grow and to achieve certain profitability targets. If our financial performance in a particular quarter does not meet the expectations of our stockholders, this may adversely affect their views concerning our growth potential and future financial performance. In addition, if the securities analysts who regularly follow our common stock lower their ratings of our common stock, the market price of our common stock is likely to drop significantly. We face risks associated with government regulation. As an advertising agency that creates and places print and Internet advertisements, we are subject to Sections 5 and 12 of the Federal Trade Commission Act of 1914, also known as the FTC Act. These sections regulate advertising in all media, including the Internet, and require advertisers and advertising agencies to have substantiation for advertising claims before disseminating advertisements. The FTC Act prohibits the dissemination of false, deceptive, misleading, and unfair advertising, and grants the FTC enforcement powers to impose and seek civil penalties, consumer redress, injunctive relief and other remedies upon advertisers and advertising agencies that disseminate prohibited advertisements. Advertising agencies like us are subject to liability under the FTC Act if the agency actively participated in creating the advertisement, and knew or had reason to know that the advertising was false or deceptive. 16 In the event that any advertising that we have created is found to be false, deceptive or misleading, the FTC Act could potentially subject us to liability. The fact that the FTC has brought several actions charging deceptive advertising via the Internet, and is actively seeking new cases involving advertising via the Internet, indicates that the FTC Act could pose a somewhat higher risk of liability to advertising distributed via the Internet. The FTC has never brought any actions against us. Other current or new government laws and regulations, or the application of existing laws and regulations may: •significantly dampen growth in Internet usage; •prevent us from offering certain Internet content or services; or •otherwise significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. There are currently few laws or regulations directly applicable to the Internet. The application of existing laws and regulations to our web sites, particularly Monster, relating to issues such as user privacy, security of data, defamation, advertising, taxation, promotions, content regulation, and intellectual property ownership and infringement can be unclear. In addition, we will also be subject to new laws and regulations directly applicable to our activities. Any existing or new legislation applicable to us could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations, and dampen growth in Internet usage. The federal CAN-SPAM Act and state anti-spam laws impose certain requirements on the use of e-mail. The implications of these laws have not been fully tested. Portions of our business rely on e-mail to communicate with consumers on our behalf and for our clients. We may face risk if our use of e-mail is found to violate the federal law or applicable state law. We post our privacy policy and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data on our websites. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policy or other privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings which could potentially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this regard, there are a large number of legislative proposals before the United States Congress and various state legislative bodies regarding privacy issues related to our business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted, and certain proposals, if adopted, could significantly harm our business through a decrease in user registrations and revenues. This could be caused by, among other possible provisions, the required use of disclaimers or other requirements before users can utilize our services. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate its transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws or such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments (or developments stemming from enactment or modification of other laws) may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Legal proceedings may significantly harm our business. From time to time, we may become involved in litigation or other proceedings. It is possible that such litigation or proceedings may significantly harm our future results of operations or financial condition due to expenses we may incur to defend ourselves or the ramifications of an adverse decision. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 17 