Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our debt or equity securities could decline. Our investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” before deciding to invest in our securities. Operational Risks We face competition for customers. We compete with our current and potential customers’ internal information protection and storage services capabilities. These organizations may not begin or continue to use an outside company, such as our company, for their future information protection and storage services needs or may not use us to provide these services. We also compete with multiple information protection and storage services providers in all geographic areas where we operate. We may be impacted by current or future privacy regulations. Many new state and federal laws and regulations are being contemplated and enacted relative to privacy issues in general and the care and handling of personal information in particular. We can provide no assurance that these new laws and regulations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. 13 We may not be able to effectively expand our digital businesses. We have implemented our planned expansion into various digital businesses. Our entrance into these markets poses certain unique risks. For example, we may be unable to: · raise the amount of capital necessary to effectively participate in these businesses; · develop, hire or otherwise obtain the necessary technical expertise; · accurately predict the size of the markets for any of these services; or · compete effectively against other companies that possess greater technical expertise, capital or other necessary resources. In addition, the digital solutions we offer may not gain or retain market acceptance, or business partners upon whom we depend for technical and management expertise, as well as the hardware and software products we need to complement our services, may not perform as expected. Our customers may shift from paper storage to alternative technologies that require less physical space. We derive most of our revenues from the storage of paper documents and storage related services. This storage requires significant physical space. Alternative storage technologies exist, many of which require significantly less space than paper documents. These technologies include computer media, microform, CD-ROM and optical disk. However, we can provide no assurance that our customers will continue to store most of their records in paper documents format. A significant shift by our customers to storage of data through non-paper based technologies, whether now existing or developed in the future, could adversely affect our business. We may be subject to certain costs and potential liabilities associated with the real estate required for our businesses. Because our businesses are heavily dependent on real estate, we face special risks attributable to the real estate we own or lease. Such risks include: · variable occupancy costs and difficulty locating suitable sites due to fluctuations in the real estate market; · uninsured losses or damage to our storage facilities due to an inability to obtain full coverage on a cost-effective basis for some casualties, such as earthquakes, or any coverage for certain losses, such as losses from riots or terrorist activities; · loss of our investment in, and anticipated profits and cash flow from, damaged property that is uninsured; and · liability under various federal, state and local environmental laws for the costs of investigation and cleanup of contaminated real estate owned or leased by us, whether or not we know of, or were responsible for, the contamination, or the contamination occurred while we owned or leased the property. Some of our current and formerly owned or operated properties were previously used by entities other than us for industrial or other purposes that involved the use, storage, generation and/or disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, including petroleum products. In some instances these properties included the operation of underground storage tanks or the presence of asbestos-containing materials. Although we have from time to time conducted limited environmental investigations and remedial activities at some of our former and current facilities, we have not undertaken an in-depth environmental review of all of our properties. We therefore may be potentially liable for environmental costs like those discussed above and may be unable to sell, rent, mortgage or use contaminated real estate owned or leased 14 by us. Environmental conditions for which we might be liable may also exist at properties that we may acquire in the future. In addition, future regulatory action and environmental laws may impose costs for environmental compliance that do not exist today. International operations may pose unique risks. As of December 31, 2005, we provided services in 81 markets outside the U.S. As part of our growth strategy, we expect to continue to acquire information protection and storage services businesses in foreign markets. International operations are subject to numerous risks, including: · the impact of foreign government regulations; · the volatility of certain foreign economies in which we operate; · political uncertainties; · the risk that the business partners upon whom we depend for technical assistance or management and acquisition expertise outside of the U.S. will not perform as expected; · differences in business practices; and · foreign currency fluctuations. In particular, our net income can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currencies associated with certain intercompany balances among our U.S. entities and our foreign subsidiaries and our U.K. entity and subsidiaries on the European continent. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock No Intention to Pay Dividends We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We intend to retain future earnings for use in our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends on shares of common stock in the foreseeable future. The terms of our credit agreement and our indentures contain provisions permitting the payment of cash dividends and stock repurchases subject to certain limitations. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our various indebtedness. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. The following table shows important credit statistics as of December 31, 2005: At December 31, 2005 (Dollars in millions) Total long-term debt $ 2,529.4 Stockholders’ equity $ 1,370.1 Debt to equity ratio 1.85 x Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. Our indebtedness may increase as we continue to borrow under existing and future credit arrangements in order to finance future acquisitions and for general corporate purposes, which would increase the associated risks. These risks include: · inability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our various indebtedness; · inability to adjust to adverse economic conditions; 15 · inability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements, including possible required repurchases of our various indebtedness; · limits on our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the information protection and storage services industry; · limits on future borrowings under our existing or future credit arrangements, which could affect our ability to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; · inability to generate sufficient funds to cover required interest payments; and · restrictions on our ability to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms. Restrictive loan covenants may limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy. Our credit facility and our indentures contain covenants restricting or limiting our ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · pay dividends or make other restricted payments; · make asset dispositions; · create or permit liens; and · make capital expenditures and other investments. These restrictions may adversely affect our ability to pursue our acquisition and other growth strategies. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to finance the repurchase of outstanding senior subordinated indebtedness upon a change of control event as required by our indentures. Upon the occurrence of a change of control, we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding senior subordinated indebtedness. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of the notes or that restrictions in our revolving credit facility will not allow such repurchases. In addition, certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a ‘‘change of control’’ under our indentures. Since Iron Mountain is a holding company, our ability to make payments on our various indebtedness depends in part on the operations of our subsidiaries. Iron Mountain is a holding company, and substantially all of our assets consist of the stock of our subsidiaries and substantially all of our operations are conducted by our direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make payments on our various indebtedness will be dependent upon the receipt of sufficient funds from our subsidiaries. However, our various indebtedness is guaranteed, on a joint and several and full and unconditional basis, by most, but not all, of our direct and indirect wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries. Acquisition and International Expansion Risks Failure to successfully integrate acquired operations could reduce our future results of operations. The success of any acquisition depends in part on our ability to integrate the acquired company. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention and our financial and other resources. We can give no assurance that we will ultimately be able to effectively integrate and manage the operations of any 16 acquired business. Nor can we assure you that we will be able to maintain or improve the historical financial performance of Iron Mountain or our acquisitions. The failure to successfully integrate these cultures, operating systems, procedures and information technologies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to continue our international expansion. Our growth strategy involves expanding operations into international markets, and we expect to continue this expansion. Europe and Latin America have been our primary areas of focus for international expansion and we recently began our expansion into the Asia Pacific region. We have entered into joint ventures and have acquired all or a majority of the equity in information protection and storage services businesses operating in these areas and are actively pursuing additional opportunities. This growth strategy involves risks. We may be unable to pursue this strategy in the future. For example, we may be unable to: · identify suitable companies to acquire; · complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms; · incur additional debt necessary to acquire suitable companies if we are unable to pay the purchase price out of working capital, common stock or other equity securities; or · enter into successful business arrangements for technical assistance or management and acquisition expertise outside of the U.S. We also compete with other information protection and storage services providers for companies to acquire. Some of our competitors may possess greater financial and other resources than we do. If any such competitor were to devote additional resources to such acquisition candidates or focus its strategy on our international markets, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 