Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business may suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this report. There may be additional risks faced by our business. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our future operations, we will need to curtail planned development or sales and commercialization activities. Our near-term capital requirements are dependent on various factors, including operating costs and working capital investments associated with commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System, costs associated with planning and conducting studies and clinical trials of our platelet and red blood cell systems, timing and magnitude of payments under grants from the United States government, and costs related to creating, maintaining and defending our intellectual property. Our long-term capital requirements will also be dependent on competitive developments and regulatory factors. Until we are able to generate a sufficient amount of product revenue and generate positive net cash flows from operations, meeting our long-term capital requirements is in large part subject to access to public and private equity and debt capital markets, as well as to additional collaborative arrangements with partners or government grants, augmented by cash generated from operations and interest income earned on the investment of our cash balances and short-term investments. We believe that we will be able to make reductions in our operating expenses and inventory, which, together with our expected revenues, will result in sufficient capital to fund operations into 2010. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, we could consume our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. We may borrow additional capital from institutional and commercial banking sources to fund future growth on terms that may include restrictive covenants, including covenants that restrict the operation of our business, liens on assets, high effective interest rates and repayment provisions that reduce cash resources and limit future access to capital markets. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration or partnering arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some of our rights to our technologies or rights to market and sell our products in certain geographies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Our ability to raise additional capital may be adversely impacted by current economic conditions, including the effects of the recent disruptions to the credit and financial markets in the United States and worldwide. In addition, our independent registered public accountants have indicated that our recurring operating losses raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. This opinion may make it more difficult for us to raise funds when needed. As a result of these and other factors, we do not know whether additional capital will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will be able to obtain additional capital on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. If we are unable to raise additional capital due to the recent disruptions to the credit and financial markets in the United States and worldwide or other factors, we will need to curtail planned development and commercialization activities. We expect to prioritize continued commercialization of the platelet and plasma systems in Europe, Russia, the Middle East and in selected countries in other regions around the world over pursuit of regulatory approval of the platelet system in the United States and development and commercialization of the red blood cell system. 11 Table of Contents Historically, we had received significant awards in funding under cooperative agreements with the DoD. We also received funding under grants from the National Institutes of Health, largely in support of the immunotherapy business that we spun-off in late 2007. Further funding awarded under Federal grants and cooperative agreements for the INTERCEPT Blood Systems may decline when compared to historic levels. It is subject to the authorization of funds and approval of our research plans by various organizations within the federal government, including the United States Congress. The general economic environment, coupled with tight Federal budgets, has led to a general decline in the amount of government funding. Additionally, we no longer are deemed to be a small business for purposes of being eligible for certain grants administered by the National Institutes of Health and regulated by Small Business Administration. Historically, a significant portion of our grant revenue came from awards surrounding our former immunotherapy business. If we are unable to obtain Federal grant and cooperative agreement funding for future research and development activities at levels similar to past funding, we may need to reduce our operating expenses, which would delay progress in some of our development programs. In addition, we are required separately to administer and account for our work under government contracts and grants on an on-going basis as a condition to accepting government funding, which places administrative, accounting and reporting burdens on us beyond those we have assumed as a public company. If we fail to comply with applicable governmental administrative, accounting and reporting regulations with respect to these grants and cooperative agreements, funds currently available to us may be reduced or lost. These conditions may also result in increased selling, general, and administrative spending beyond what we have experienced. Our independent registered public accountants have indicated that our recurring operating losses raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. The going concern basis of presentation assumes that we will continue in operation for the foreseeable future and will be able to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. However, our independent registered public accountants have indicated that our recurring operating losses raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We may be forced to reduce our operating expenses and raise additional funds to meet our working capital needs, principally through the additional sales of our securities or debt financings. However, we cannot guarantee that will be able to obtain sufficient additional funds when needed or that such funds, if available, will be obtainable on terms satisfactory to us. In the event that these plans cannot be effectively realized, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our declining creditworthiness may make us unable to obtain additional funds through debt financings, which will impair our ability to continue as a going concern Our lack of sufficient revenues to meet our working capital needs has caused our creditworthiness to decline. As a result, we may be unable to raise additional funds through debt financings or, if we are able to raise such funds, we may not be able to do so on terms satisfactory to us. If we fail to generate operating income or raise additional funds through sales of our securities or debt financings, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We have only a limited operating history, and we expect to continue to generate losses. We may never achieve a profitable level of operations. Our development and selling, general, and administrative expenses have resulted in substantial losses each year since our inception with the exception of the year ended December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $385.9 million. Except for sales of the platelet and plasma systems, we have not received significant revenue from product revenue. The platelet and plasma systems are not yet approved in the United States or in many other countries around the world. The red blood cell system is in early stage clinical development and may never emerge from the clinical development stage as a marketed product. We may be required to reduce the sales price 12 Table of Contents for our products in order to make our products economically attractive to our customers and to governmental and private payors, which would reduce and may eliminate our gross profit on sales. Pricing levels may differ widely from country to country, depending on economic, social and industry practices specific to each country. At our present low unit sales levels of the platelet and plasma systems, our costs to manufacture, distribute, market, sell, support and administer the systems are in excess of revenue. We may be unable to increase sales to a level sufficient to generate profit contribution. Because the contracts with large, public-sector customers, such as the EFS, for the INTERCEPT Blood System may not be confidential due to the public tender process, their terms may set contractual precedents that would not be acceptable to us if applied to contracts with our other customers. Historically, we received substantially all of our revenue from our agreements with our development partners and from federal research grants and cooperative agreements and were required to conduct significant research, development, clinical testing and regulatory compliance activities for each of these products. Contribution from product sales is unlikely to exceed the costs we incur in research, development, and commercialization of the INTERCEPT Blood System for the foreseeable future. We expect our losses to continue at least until the INTERCEPT Blood System is commercialized more broadly and achieves more significant market acceptance. Costs of developing and testing the red blood cell system in later stage human clinical trials will extend the period during which we expect to operate at a loss. Our investment portfolio may become impaired by further deterioration of the capital markets. Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of December 31, 2008, consisted primarily of high credit, high liquidity United States government agency securities, asset backed securities, corporate debt securities, money market funds and interest-bearing accounts with financial institutions. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. As a result of current adverse financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments, such as structured investment vehicles, sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, auction rate securities and collateralized debt obligations, may pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. We have limited holdings of these investments in our portfolio; however, the current disruptions in the credit and financial markets have negatively affected investments in many industries, including those in which we invest. During the years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007, we recognized other-than-temporary impairments for certain investments in our portfolio totaling $0.3 million and $0.2 million, respectively. The current global economic crisis has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on the market values of the investments in our investment portfolio. We cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and there can be no assurance that the markets for these securities will not deteriorate further or that the institutions that these investments are with will be able to meet their debt obligations at the time we may need to liquidate such investments or until such time as the investments mature. The INTERCEPT Blood System may not achieve broad market acceptance. We may encounter governmental and blood banking community resistance to commercial adoption for any or all of our products. Some potential customers may await further safety information or additional studies before choosing whether to adopt our products. In addition to blood banks, our direct customers, we must also address issues and concerns from broad constituencies involved in the healthcare system, from patients who may ultimately benefit from INTERCEPT-treated blood components, to transfusing physicians, hospitals, private and public sector payors, regulatory bodies and public health authorities. Any one of these constituencies may be able to delay or block adoption of the INTERCEPT Blood System. We may be unable to adequately demonstrate to these constituencies that the INTERCEPT Blood System is safe, efficacious and cost effective. For logistical and financial reasons, the transfusion industry has not always integrated new technologies into its processes, even those with the potential to improve the safety of the blood supply, such as the INTERCEPT Blood System. Our products may require significant changes to our potential customers’ blood component 13 Table of Contents collection methods, space and staffing requirements and potential customers may not believe that the benefits of using the INTERCEPT Blood System justify their additional cost. There is some loss of platelets as a result of our pathogen inactivation process. If the loss of platelets leads to increased costs, or our process requires changes in blood center or clinical regimens, customers may not adopt our platelet system. Certain studies have indicated that transfusion of conventionally prepared platelets may yield higher post-transfusion platelet counts (according to a measurement called “corrected count increment”) than transfusion of INTERCEPT-treated platelets. While studies also demonstrate that INTERCEPT-treated platelets retain therapeutic function comparable to conventional platelets, customers may choose not to adopt our platelet system due to considerations relating to corrected count increment. Our products do not inactivate all known pathogens, and the inability of our systems to inactivate certain pathogens, including prions, may limit their acceptance. In addition, our products may not demonstrate economic value sufficient to offset their price, imposing a financial burden on the healthcare system that may limit market acceptance. In addition, we have developed, but have not yet received an expanded label claim for a configuration of our platelet system that may make it compatible with the common practice of collecting two units of platelets from a single apheresis donor. We may need to develop new product configurations to address market needs, which may be technically challenging, expensive and negatively affect potential contribution from product sales. If customers experience operational or technical problems with the use of INTERCEPT Blood System products, market acceptance may be reduced. For example, if adverse events arise from incomplete inactivation of pathogens, improper processing or user error, or if testing of INTERCEPT-treated blood samples fails to reliably confirm pathogen inactivation, whether or not directly attributable to a shortcoming of the INTERCEPT Blood System, customers may refrain from purchasing the products. Market acceptance of our products may also be affected by blood center budgets and the availability of reimbursement from governments, managed care payors, such as insurance companies, or other third parties. In many cases, due to the structure of the blood products industry, we will have little control over budget and reimbursement discussions, which generally occur between blood centers and national or regional ministries of health and private payors. Even if a particular blood center is prepared to adopt the INTERCEPT Blood System, its hospital customers may not accept, or may not have the budget to purchase, INTERCEPT-treated blood products. It is difficult to predict the reimbursement status of newly approved, novel medical device products. In certain foreign markets, governments have issued regulations relating to the pricing and profitability of medical products and medical products companies. There also have been proposals in the United States, at both the Federal and state government level, to implement similar controls. The widespread adoption of managed care in the United States has also placed downward pressure on the pricing of medical products. These pressures can be expected to continue and may limit the prices we can obtain for our products. Product revenue in Europe and other regions may be negatively affected because we do not have FDA approval for any of our products. In addition, failure to gain approval or achieve widespread product adoption in key European countries for reasons within and outside our control may limit adoption in other countries. If the INTERCEPT Blood System products fail to achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. The market for the INTERCEPT Blood System is highly concentrated with few customers, including often-dominant regional or national blood collection entities. Even if our products receive regulatory approval and reimbursement is available, failure to properly market, promote, distribute, price or sell our products to any of these large customers could significantly diminish potential product revenue in those geographies. The market for our pathogen inactivation systems in the United States is highly concentrated, dominated by a small number of blood collection organizations. In many countries in Western Europe and in Japan, various national blood transfusion services or Red Cross organizations collect, store and distribute virtually all of their respective nations’ blood and blood components supply. In Europe, the largest markets for our products are in England, Germany and France. Decisions on product adoption in England are centralized with the National Blood Service. In Germany, decisions on product adoption and subsequent reimbursement are expected to be on a regional or even blood center-by-blood center basis, but depend on both local and centralized regulatory approval from the Paul Ehrlich Institute, or PEI. Product characteristics relating to platelet dose in any final PEI marketing authorization of INTERCEPT-treated platelets may be incompatible with market requirements. While 14 Table of Contents INTERCEPT-treated platelets and plasma have received in-country regulatory approval and reimbursement rates have been established in France, adoption throughout France has been delayed. Blood center economics in certain European countries, including Germany and the United Kingdom, may require that we develop disposable kit configurations of the platelet system that treat larger volumes of platelets, which would serve to reduce the number of kits we might sell to address market demand in those countries, even though our selling price and margin might be higher on such disposable kit configurations. The Japanese Red Cross controls a significant majority of blood transfusions in Japan and exerts a high degree of influence on the adoption and use of blood safety measures in Japan. The Japanese Red Cross has been reviewing preclinical and clinical data on pathogen inactivation of blood over a number of years and has yet to make a formal determination to adopt the INTERCEPT Blood System or any other competitive approach. If approvals are not obtained to market our products in these countries, or if the products are not adopted in these countries, our potential product revenue will be significantly decreased. Our products, blood products treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System and we are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign authorities. If our preclinical and clinical data are not considered sufficient by regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval, we will be unable to commercialize our products and generate revenue. Our red blood cell system requires extensive additional testing and development. Our products, both those sold commercially and those under development, are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by local, state and federal regulatory authorities in the United States and by foreign regulatory bodies. These regulations are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: • development; • testing; • manufacturing; • labeling; • storage; • pre-market clearance or approval; • sales and distribution; • use standards and documentation; • post-launch surveillance; • quality; • advertising and promotion; and • reimbursement. Clinical trials in particular are expensive and have a high risk of failure. Any of our product candidates may fail in the testing phase or may not achieve results sufficient to attain market acceptance, which could prevent us from achieving profitability. We do not know whether we will begin and conduct planned clinical trials on schedule, if at all. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially impact our clinical trials. We also do not know whether planned clinical trials will need to be revamped or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Criteria for regulatory approval in blood safety indications are evolving with competitive advances in the standard of care against which new product candidates are judged, as well as with changing market needs and reimbursement levels. Clinical trial design, including enrollment criteria, endpoints, and anticipated label claims are thus subject to change, even if original objectives are being met. In addition to the reasons stated above, clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a study, delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study agreement terms with prospective clinical sites, delays in 15 Table of Contents obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective clinical site and delays in recruiting subjects to participate in a study. We do not know whether any clinical trials will result in marketable products. Typically, there is a high rate of failure for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials and product emerging from any successful trials would not reach the market for several years. It may take us several years to complete our clinical testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Enrollment criteria for certain of our clinical trials may be quite narrow. Consequently, we may be unable to recruit suitable patients into the trial on a timely basis, if at all. We cannot rely on interim results of trials to predict their final results, and acceptable results in early trials might not be repeated in later trials. Any trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical study or clinical trial or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial to be repeated, require other studies to be performed or cause a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to a program are successful. The FDA and other agencies in the United States and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the manufacturing and marketing of products such as those we are developing. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is long, expensive and uncertain, and typically takes a number of years, depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the product. In addition, we may be required to obtain approval from the Food and Drug Branch of the California State Department of Health for any product manufactured by us in California, including for clinical trial use. We may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure necessary approvals or licenses, or we may not be successful at all. We have received CE mark approval and in-country regulatory approvals for the INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems, which allow us to sell our platelet and plasma systems only in certain countries, mainly in Europe, Russia, the Middle East, and Asia. We have not received regulatory approval for commercial sale of the INTERCEPT Blood System in the United States and many other countries around the world. Our products are in various stages of development and regulatory approval, and we face the risks of failure inherent in developing medical devices and biotechnology products based on new technologies. Our products must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy and we must adhere to quality standards regarding manufacturing and customer-facing business processes before the FDA and international regulatory authorities can approve them for commercial use. We must provide the FDA and international regulatory authorities with preclinical, clinical and manufacturing data demonstrating that our products are safe, effective and in compliance with government regulations before the products can be approved for commercial sale. We will need to complete validation studies and obtain in-country regulatory approvals and gain national reimbursement in certain European countries before we can market and sell our products in those countries. Before the FDA determines whether to approve the INTERCEPT Blood System products, we expect our approval applications to be reviewed by the Blood Products Advisory Committee, or BPAC. BPAC would then make a recommendation to the FDA for, or against, approval. Even if BPAC were to recommend approval of one or more of our products, the FDA would not necessarily approve those products. If BPAC were to recommend against approval of one or more of our products, it is likely that the FDA would not approve those products. If our product candidates receive approval for commercial sale, their marketing and manufacturing will be subject to continuing FDA and other regulatory requirements, such as requirements to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice and ISO 13485, a quality management system standard applicable to the products we sell in Europe. The failure to comply with these requirements on an ongoing basis could result in delaying or precluding commercialization efforts in certain geographies, including the United States, and could result in enforcement action, which could harm our business. The current manufacturing sites we rely upon for producing the platelet and plasma system products for international distribution and sale are not FDA-qualified facilities. Regulatory authorities may also require post-marketing testing, which can involve significant expense. Governments or regulatory authorities may impose new regulations or other changes or we may discover that we are subject to additional regulations that could further delay or preclude regulatory approval and subsequent adoption of our 16 Table of Contents potential products. We cannot predict the impact of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action. Distribution of our products in markets outside the United States also is subject to extensive government regulation. These regulations vary by country, including the requirements for approvals or clearance to market, the time required for regulatory review and the sanctions imposed for violations. In some countries, we may be required to register as a medical device manufacturer, even though we outsource manufacturing to third parties. In addition to CE mark documentation, countries outside the European Union may require clinical data submissions, registration packages, import licenses or other documentation with which we have little or no familiarity. In May 2007, we obtained a CE mark extension in our name from European Union regulators for our platelet system, originally obtained by Baxter in 2002, and will need to obtain an extension every five years. In addition to European Union-level approval, we must obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals in some individual European countries to market our products. We may also be required to conduct additional testing in order to obtain regulatory approval in countries that do not recognize the CE mark as being adequate for commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System in those countries. The level of additional product testing varies by country, but could be expensive or take a long time to complete. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in lost product revenue and profitability. In addition, regulatory agencies are able to withdraw or suspend previously issued approvals. For example, we recently received notice from Health Canada that the license for the platelet system that was issued to Baxter had been suspended until such time as we can supply Health Canada with additional data to meet its requirements. We completed our Phase III clinical trial of the platelet system in the United States in March 2001 and submitted data from this trial, along with several other modules of our pre-market approval application, to the FDA. Based on discussions with the FDA, we performed an additional blinded analysis of the clinical trial data, under the direction of an independent expert physician panel, to determine if apparent differences between treatment groups in the category of pulmonary adverse events reported in the study were attributable to inconsistent event reporting. The reassessment of primary patient records by the expert physician panel showed no statistically significant differences between groups. This reassessment differed from the earlier analysis of adverse events that was based on clinical trial case report forms, which showed statistically significant differences in specific pulmonary events. We submitted a report of the analysis to the FDA for review. We have had several interactions with the FDA subsequent to the final report submission. We understand that our reassessment of our previously completed Phase III clinical trial data will not be sufficient to address the apparent differences observed in that trial between the treatment groups in the category of pulmonary adverse events. Based upon further discussions with the FDA following submission of that report, we understand that the FDA may consider non-randomized, unblinded, and noncontrolled data gathered from monitoring patients transfused with INTERCEPT-treated platelets in the context of standard medical practice in conjunction with data from the previously completed Phase III trials. We understand that the design of such a study would be novel and resulting data may not be sufficient to approximate the quality of similar data that could be expected from a randomized, blinded, and controlled Phase III clinical trial. Such data will need to be gathered prospectively and must be in a form and substance deemed acceptable to the FDA in its sole discretion. There is no assurance that we will be able to reach agreement with the FDA on the data to be collected and endpoints to be monitored, that transfusing physicians with patients in the study will adhere to post diagnostic medical procedures that may be mandated in the agreed upon study protocol, that we will be able to collect such data, or that the FDA will find such data from commercial use adequate to answer questions that the FDA has concerning the safety and efficacy of the platelet system. We may conclude that the cost of gathering such data or the time required to do so is too great or that gathering such data is not logistically achievable. The FDA may not find the data from standard medical practice in Europe to be acceptable for approval in the United States. As a result, the FDA may still require a larger, randomized, blinded clinical trial than we and Baxter completed in 2001 before a product license application can be finalized and the platelet system considered for approval in the United States. 17 Table of Contents Such an additional Phase III trial would have to be designed to demonstrate no greater frequency in the incidence of such adverse events relative to a control group on a statistically significant basis. The dimensions of such a Phase III trial may be prohibitively large due either to prospective cost, logistics or both. The additional European study or Phase III clinical trial will need to be completed and data submitted to the FDA before we can complete our regulatory submission. In addition, the FDA will require that certain manufacturing and distribution facilities operated by the third parties with whom we contract to produce the platelet system be compliant with Good Manufacturing Practice, or GMP, regulations and Quality System Regulations, or QSR, before the FDA would consider the applications for approval. We have completed Phase IIIa, Phase IIIb and Phase IIIc clinical trials of the plasma system, in the United States, reports for which were filed with the FDA during 2005. We obtained a CE mark approval in Europe of the plasma system in November 2006 and final French approval in May 2007 based on data from those trials of the plasma system. We have not submitted any applications for regulatory approval of the plasma system in the United States or any other regions other than Europe. In some countries, including several in Europe, we or our customers may be required to perform additional clinical studies or submit manufacturing and marketing applications in order to obtain regulatory approval. We have conducted many toxicology studies to demonstrate the INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems’ safety, and we have conducted and plan to conduct toxicology studies for the INTERCEPT red blood cell system throughout the product development process. At any time, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may require further toxicology or other studies to further demonstrate our products’ safety, which could delay commercialization. In addition, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may alter guidance at any time as to what constitutes acceptable clinical trial endpoints or trial design, which may necessitate our having to redesign our product or proposed clinical trials and cause us to incur substantial additional expense or time in attempting to gain regulatory approval. We believe the FDA and other regulatory authorities are likely to weigh the potential risks of using our pathogen inactivation products against the incremental benefits, which may be less compelling in light of improved safety in the blood supply. We expect the FDA to require us to demonstrate a very low level of potential side effects in non-randomized data from standard medical practice in Europe or in additional randomized Phase III trials of the platelet system we may conduct in the United States or elsewhere. Trials of this type may be too large and expensive to be practical. As a result of the termination of Phase III clinical trials of our red blood cell system due to the detection of antibody reactivity to red blood cells treated with the INTERCEPT red blood cell system in one patient in the chronic arm of the trials, we have been conducting additional research activities on our red blood cell system to determine if the system can be reconfigured to reduce the potential for antibody reactivity to treated red blood cells. Based upon an internal evaluation of the results from these additional research activities and after consulting with regulatory authorities, we initiated a new Phase I trial in 2006 in the United States using a modified red blood cell system before potentially progressing to later-stage clinical trials. We utilized a manual processing system in the Phase I trial conducted in 2006, which system is not in a commercially feasible form. Results of the Phase I trial suggested that the modified process in combination with a conventional additive solution results in conditions not suitable for long-term storage of red blood cells treated with the INTERCEPT system, adversely impacting their lifespan. Consequently, we conducted in vitro and in vivo studies and initiated a new Phase I clinical trial in the fourth quarter of 2008 to test further modifications to the red blood cell system. A number of trial design, process and product design issues that could impact efficacy, regulatory approval and market acceptance will need to be resolved prior to the initiation of further clinical trials. While those clinical trials are being conducted and further clinical work is planned, including determining the appropriate design of additional Phase I, subsequent Phase II clinical trials, if deemed necessary, and Phase III clinical trials, we will need to develop a commercially feasible red blood cell system, including disposables, hardware and software for implementing the process in blood collection centers. In the aggregate, these activities will require significant funding beyond our current resources. We will not commence the next phase of activities until we have secured adequate funds. We expect that we can continue some level of program advancement on a cash neutral basis with grant funding from the Department of Defense and existing and potential partners. A delay in completing such 18 Table of Contents activities could result in a delay in the timely progression to later stage trials. If we are unsuccessful in advancing a modified red blood cell system through clinical trials, resolving process and product design issues or in obtaining subsequent regulatory approvals and acceptable reimbursement rates, we may never realize a return on our development expenses incurred to date in the red blood cell system program. Regulatory delays can also materially impact our product development costs. If we experience delays in testing, conducting trials or approvals, our product development costs will increase. For example, we may need to repeat clinical trials to address regulatory or clinical questions. We may also need to retain third-party investigators and organizations in an attempt to facilitate regulatory review and approval. If the delays are significant, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products will be harmed, and our ability to become profitable will be delayed. Regulatory agencies may limit the uses, or indications, for which any of our products are approved. For example, we believe that the INTERCEPT Blood System products will be able to claim the inactivation of particular pathogens only to the extent we have laboratory data to support such claims. After regulatory approval for the initial indications, further studies may be necessary to gain approval for the use of the product for additional indications. In addition to the regulatory requirements applicable to us and to our products, there are regulatory requirements in several countries around the world, including the United States, Germany, Canada, and Australia, and other countries, applicable to our prospective customers of INTERCEPT Blood System products, the blood centers that process and distribute blood and blood products. In those countries, blood centers and other customers will be required to obtain approved license supplements from the appropriate regulatory authorities in each country before making available blood products processed with our pathogen inactivation systems to hospitals and transfusing physicians. For example, our customers in Germany must obtain separate regulatory approvals to manufacture and sell blood components treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System. Our customers may lack the resources or capability to obtain such regulatory approvals. These requirements or regulators’ delays in approving license applications or supplements may deter some blood centers from using our products. Blood centers that do submit applications or supplements for manufacturing and sale may face disapproval or delays in approval that could provide further delay or deter them from using our products. The regulatory impact on potential customers could slow or limit the potential sales of our products. We have limited experience operating a commercial organization. We rely on third parties to market, sell, and distribute our products and to maintain customer relationships in a number of foreign countries. Since February 2006, we have been fully responsible for sales, marketing, distribution and regulatory support of the INTERCEPT Blood System worldwide, except in those Asian territories covered by our agreements with BioOne for the platelet and plasma systems. We no longer rely upon Baxter or Fenwal for these activities. If we fail in our efforts to develop or maintain such internal competencies or establish acceptable relationships with third parties on a timely basis, our attempts to commercialize the INTERCEPT Blood System may be irreparably harmed. We operate a small organization, headquartered in the Netherlands dedicated primarily to selling and marketing the platelet and plasma systems in geographies where the INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems are approved. We will need to maintain and continue to increase our competence in a number of functions, including sales, marketing, regulatory, inventory and logistics, customer service, credit and collections, risk management, and quality assurance systems. Many of these competencies require compliance with EU and local standards and practices, with which we have limited experience. We have entered into contracts, generally on a geographically exclusive basis, with distributors in countries where we have limited abilities to commercialize our pathogen inactivation products directly. We have entered into national distribution agreements in Spain, Portugal and Chile, Russia, Poland, Greece, and Kuwait, as well as regional distribution agreements in Italy. We rely on these distributors to market and sell the INTERCEPT 19 Table of Contents Blood System, obtain any necessary in-country regulatory approvals beyond the CE marks, provide customer support, maintain inventories, and adhere to our quality system in all material respects, among other activities. While our contracts generally require distributors to exercise diligence, these distributors may fail to commercialize the INTERCEPT Blood System in their respective territories or may do so on terms which are not economic to us. They may fail to sell product inventory they have purchased from us to end customers. Initial purchases of UVA illuminators or disposable kits by these third parties may not lead to follow-on purchases of disposable platelet and plasma system kits. We have limited visibility into the identity and requirements of blood banking customers these distributors may have. These third parties may irreparably harm relationships with local existing and prospective customers and our standing with the blood banking community in general. We may have little recourse, short of termination, in the event that a distributor fails to execute according to our expectations. We must develop regulatory capabilities for clinical-stage and post-approval trials involving the INTERCEPT Blood System globally. Failure to develop regulatory capabilities in support of international commercialization of the INTERCEPT Blood System may slow the rate of adoption of the platelet and plasma systems. We may not have adequate internal resources and capabilities to manage clinical-stage and post-approval trials and to respond appropriately to possible customer complaints or required regulatory reporting of adverse events arising from the use of the platelet and plasma systems. We will need to increase our regulatory and trial management resources or contract with independent regulatory consultants, which we may be unable to do on a timely basis. Adding regulatory and trial management resources will result in increased costs and may potentially delay regulatory filings. Delays or inabilities to complete regulatory filings and obtain approvals will also delay or prevent us from being able to recognize sales of our products and attaining profitability. We rely on third parties for manufacturing and supplying components of our platelet and plasma systems. We are dependent on Fenwal to manufacture disposable kits for the platelet and plasma systems through the end of 2013. Over a longer period, we may need to identify, select and qualify alternate third party sources of supply for the INTERCEPT Blood System, including the INTERCEPT red blood cell system if our agreement with Fenwal cannot be extended or broadened. In March 2007 Baxter sold its Transfusion Therapies business, the unit of Baxter that has performed many of the manufacturing and supply chain activities related to our relationship with Baxter, to a new company, Fenwal, Inc. Fenwal has agreed, through an agreement signed with us in December 2008, to manufacture disposable kits for the platelet and plasma systems for us through the end of 2013. However, Fenwal may fail to manufacture an adequate supply of disposable kits and Intersol additive solution or to do so on a cost effective basis, which would subject us to loss of revenue and reduced contribution margin. In addition, because the components of the INTERCEPT Blood System are manufactured and assembled at multiple facilities owned by both Fenwal and Baxter leading up to final assembly, Fenwal and Baxter will remain interdependent with respect to the INTERCEPT Blood System supply chain. Fenwal and Baxter may fail to coordinate or meet interdependent supply chain obligations, leading to a failure to manufacture an adequate supply of components or devices of the INTERCEPT Blood System, which would also subject us to the risks described below. We contract with independent suppliers, including NOVA, for the manufacture of UVA illuminators and certain components of the INTERCEPT Blood System which are manufactured or assembled at facilities not owned by Fenwal or Baxter. Facilities at which the INTERCEPT Blood System or its components are manufactured may cease operations for planned or unplanned reasons, causing at least temporary interruptions in supply. Even a temporary failure to supply adequate numbers of INTERCEPT Blood System components may cause an irreparable loss of customer goodwill. If we conclude that supply of the INTERCEPT Blood System or components from Fenwal and others is uncertain, we may choose to build and maintain inventories of raw materials, work-in-process components, or finished goods, which would consume capital resources and may cause our supply chain to be less efficient. Future supply of illuminators is limited to availability of components, some of which are in short supply or are no longer manufactured. We will be required to redesign the illuminator used in the platelet and plasma systems to manage the risk of obsolete components. Such redesign may be expensive and lead to regulatory delays in obtaining approvals to market the redesigned device. 20 Table of Contents Fenwal manufactures our platelet and plasma systems in facilities that are not FDA-approved. In order to be sold in the United States, our systems would be required to be manufactured in FDA-approved facilities. FDA validation of manufacturing facilities, whether owned by Fenwal or by other parties, will be costly and time-consuming. We will also be dependent on Baxter and Fenwal to transfer know-how relevant to the INTERCEPT Blood System; however, certain of Fenwal’s materials, manufacturing processes and methods are proprietary to Fenwal or Baxter. We may be unable to establish alternate sources of supply to Fenwal without having to redesign certain elements of the platelet and plasma systems. Such redesign may be costly, time consuming and require further regulatory review, which would delay our ability to commercialize the platelet and plasma systems. Fenwal is not obligated to provide support for development and testing of improvements or changes we may make to the INTERCEPT Blood System. We may be unable to identify, select, and qualify such manufacturers or those third parties able to provide support for development and testing activities on a timely basis or enter into contracts with them on reasonable terms, if at all. We have recently contracted directly with third-party suppliers of certain components of the platelet and plasma systems which Fenwal had used historically in an effort to make the supply of components more reliable, though doing so will increase our investment in raw material and work-in-process inventories and subject us to minimum purchase requirements. We understand that a raw material supplier to Baxter, which in turn supplies Fenwal, for a proprietary plastic used in the platelet and plasma systems’ disposable kits has ceased production, and that Baxter may be unable to identify an alternate supplier on a timely basis, if at all. Raw material and component suppliers may not meet quality specifications we have set, which would cause a disruption in supply and may lead to lost sales and irreparable damage to our customer relationships. Moreover, the inclusion of components manufactured by new suppliers could require us to seek new or updated approvals from regulatory authorities, which could result in delays in product delivery. We may not receive any such required regulatory approvals. Our potential remedies against Fenwal or other manufacturers may be inadequate in assuring that these manufacturing partners meet their contractual obligations. In the event of a failure by Fenwal or other manufacturers to perform their obligations to supply components of the INTERCEPT Blood System to us, damages recoverable by us may be insufficient to compensate us for the full loss of business opportunity. Our supply agreements with Fenwal and NOVA, and supply agreements with others contain limitations on incidental and consequential damages that we may recover. A supplier’s potential liability in the event of non-performance may not be sufficient to compel the supplier to continue to act in conformity with our agreements. The platelet system is not compatible with some commercial platelet collection methods and platforms and platelet storage solutions. The equipment and materials used to collect platelets vary by manufacturer and by geographic region. Platelets may be collected from a single donor by apheresis using an automated collection machine. Apheresis devices currently used in the United States and European markets differ, among other characteristics, in their ability to collect platelets in reduced volumes of plasma. Platelet concentrates may also be prepared from whole blood by pooling together platelets from multiple donors. There are two commonly used methods for preparing whole blood platelets: the buffy coat method, which is used extensively in Europe, and the pooled random donor method, which is used in the United States and to a more limited extent in Europe. Our system for platelets is designed to work with platelets collected using a proprietary platelet storage solution, called Intersol, manufactured by Fenwal. For platelets collected by apheresis, the INTERCEPT platelet system is most compatible with Fenwal’s apheresis platelet collection system, because it facilitates the use of Intersol. For platelets prepared from whole blood, our platelet system is most compatible with the buffy coat collection method, again because this method facilitates the use of Intersol as an additive solution to the platelet concentrate. As a result, we have conducted most of our clinical studies using either Fenwal’s equipment or buffy 21 Table of Contents coat platelets. More recently, we have begun conducting studies in Europe supporting the use of the platelet system in combination with other collection and preparation platforms and with other additive solutions and with platelets suspended in plasma. We may not be successful in developing data supportive of commercialization using other collection and preparation platforms and with other additive solutions, which would limit customer adoption of the INTERCEPT Blood System. Fenwal may be required to obtain separate regulatory approval for Intersol in the United States and in countries which do not recognize CE mark approval before customers would be permitted to use Intersol with the INTERCEPT Blood System in those countries. In order to address the entire market in the United States, we would need to develop and test additional configurations of the platelet system. Our efforts to develop the platelet system were initially focused on apheresis platelets collected on Fenwal’s automated collection platform or using the buffy coat collection method. We estimate that the majority of platelets used in the United States are collected by apheresis, though a significant minority is prepared from pooled random donor platelets derived from whole blood collections. In order to gain regulatory approvals for a pathogen inactivation system compatible with random donor platelets, we will need to perform additional product development and testing, including additional clinical trials. Similarly, to achieve market acceptance in certain geographies, we may be required to design, develop and test new product configurations for the platelet and plasma systems. These development activities would increase our costs significantly, and may not be successful. Fenwal has committed to us to make Intersol collection and pooling products and conversion kits available to customers. However, Fenwal may not make such products or its apheresis collection system available for sale in certain countries and has elected to discontinue sales efforts for its apheresis collection system in Japan. Other manufacturers supplying blood component collection platforms to the market may resist our efforts to make the INTERCEPT Blood System compatible with their platforms. Attaining compatibility with collection platforms manufactured by others may require adaptations to either the INTERCEPT Blood System or to the collection platforms, which may be difficult to engineer, expensive to implement and test, require additional clinical trials, cause delays in regulatory approval and/or be commercially unattractive to pursue. These development activities will increase our costs significantly, and may not be successful. Market acceptance of the INTERCEPT Blood System may be delayed until the system receives regulatory approval for use on such other equipment, if required. Because the INTERCEPT Blood System products have not been manufactured on more than a limited commercial scale, we face manufacturing uncertainties that could limit their commercialization. If our third-party manufacturers fail to produce our products or compounds satisfactorily, at acceptable cost and in sufficient quantities, we may incur delays, shortfalls and additional expenses, which may in turn result in permanent harm to our customer relations. The INTERCEPT Blood System products, including many of the components, have been manufactured on a commercial scale on only a limited basis. Fenwal relies on third parties, including Baxter, to manufacture and assemble some of the platelet and plasma system components, many of which are customized and have not been manufactured on a commercial scale. Fenwal has produced some pathogen inactivation systems in modest commercial quantities, but may not be able to manufacture and assemble other systems or in larger quantities, or do so economically. Because of low sales volumes and other reasons, Fenwal’s costs to manufacture commercial components for the platelet and plasma systems have been greater than we previously anticipated and may continue to rise. It is uncertain what effect Fenwal’s independence from Baxter will have on its cost structure or on transfer prices from Baxter to Fenwal and costs ultimately passed on to us. These issues may result in reducing our potential gross profit margin from platelet and plasma system sales. We are in the initial stages of commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System and may not accurately forecast demand for the INTERCEPT Blood System. We have contracted with third parties to supply platelet and plasma systems and components to meet forecasted demand. However, such forecasts may prove to be either 22 Table of Contents higher or lower than actual commercial demand. As a result, we may carry excess work-in-process or finished goods inventory, which would consume capital resources and may become obsolete, or be inadequate to meet customer demand. If Fenwal or third-party manufacturers fail to produce our products or Intersol products satisfactorily, at acceptable costs and in sufficient quantities, we may incur delays, shortfalls and additional expenses, which may in turn result in permanent harm to our customer relations. Fenwal and we purchase certain key components of the INTERCEPT Blood System from a limited number of suppliers. It would be expensive and time-consuming to establish additional or replacement suppliers for these components. Some components of the INTERCEPT Blood System, including components of the UVA illuminator device, are no longer manufactured, which will require Fenwal or us to identify and qualify replacement components and may require that we conduct additional studies, which could include clinical trials, to demonstrate equivalency or validate any required design or component changes. We understand that a raw material supplier to Baxter, which in turn supplies Fenwal, for a proprietary plastic used in the platelet and plasma systems’ disposable kits has ceased production, and that Baxter may be unable to identify an alternate supplier on a timely basis, if at all. If Fenwal or we are unable to identify and supply replacement components, we may be unable to supply products to our customers. If we were required to redesign the products, our development costs would increase, and our programs and commercialization efforts could be delayed significantly. We use third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of the chemical compounds used in our products. We currently do not have any third-party manufacturing agreements in place for commercial production of compounds used in our red blood cell system, which is in early stages of clinical development. Any new or additional commercial manufacturer will need to develop new methods and processes to manufacture these compounds on a commercial scale and demonstrate to us, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that its commercial scale manufacturing processes comply with government regulations and that its compounds are equivalent to originally licensed compounds in order for us to maintain commercial licensure of our products. It may be difficult or impossible to economically manufacture our products on a commercial scale. Our platelet and plasma systems have received regulatory approval for two-year shelf lives. We and our distributors may be unable to ship product to customers prior to the expiration of product shelf life, which would require that we destroy or consume the outdated inventory in product demonstration activities at our expense. We have used prototype components in our preclinical studies and clinical trials of the INTERCEPT red blood cell system and have not completed the components’ commercial design. We will be required to identify and enter into agreements with third parties to manufacture the red blood cell system and related blood component storage solutions. The system disposables and instruments of our red blood cell system that we used in our preclinical studies and clinical trials in the United States historically and those we are now using in the current Phase I red blood cell trial are prototypes of systems to be used in the final products. As a result, we expect regulatory authorities will require us to perform additional preclinical and clinical studies using the commercial versions of the systems to demonstrate the acceptability of the commercial configuration and the equivalence of the prototypes and the commercial products, which may increase our expenses and delay the commercialization of our products. We have tested additional modifications of the red blood cell system to improve the lifespan of treated red blood cells. In vitro and in vivo studies of such modifications to the red blood cell system may not be indicative of red blood cell lifespan in humans. Additional early-stage trials will be necessary to determine whether our modifications, including these new approaches, may lead to a product with acceptable commercial characteristics. We also are assessing whether such modifications would be acceptable clinically, economically and/or operationally to potential customers. We may determine that although the modified red blood cell system may overcome technical issues encountered in the past, it may not be commercially feasible from potential customers’ perspectives. If we fail to develop commercial versions of the INTERCEPT red blood cell system on schedule, our potential revenue would be delayed or diminished and our potential competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do. 23 Table of Contents In addition, the design and engineering effort required to complete the final commercial product will likely be substantial and time-consuming. As with any complex development effort, we expect to encounter design, engineering and manufacturing issues. Such issues have previously arisen, sometimes unexpectedly, and solutions to these issues have not always been readily forthcoming. Additional unforeseen design, engineering and manufacturing issues may arise in the future, which could increase the development cost and delay commercialization of our products. Fenwal is not obligated to provide manufacturing services related to the red blood cell system. We will need to identify parties to provide those manufacturing services related to our red blood cell system. It may be difficult to enter into these types of agreements on reasonable terms. In particular, it will be time-consuming for other manufacturers to develop the capability to manufacture the INTERCEPT Blood System products and blood component storage solutions economically and to gain regulatory approval to do so for commercial use. We may be unable to identify and contract with manufacturers that can make our products cost-effectively, which would delay our efforts to commercialize the red blood cell system, even if we successfully complete clinical development. BioOne may fail to take advantage of commercialization rights for our platelet and plasma systems in many Asian countries. Baxter and we have licensed to BioOne rights to commercialize the platelet and plasma systems in Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea, Vietnam, Thailand, and Singapore. BioOne is subject to similar risks in its territories regarding commercialization of the INTERCEPT Blood System as we are. BioOne is solely responsible for obtaining regulatory approvals, marketing and selling the platelet and plasma systems in countries where it holds licenses to commercialize the INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems. We understand Fenwal has assumed the rights and obligations of Baxter with regard to Baxter’s agreements with BioOne. BioOne is dependent on Fenwal for the manufacture and supply of the platelet and plasma systems. BioOne may be unable to qualify the platelet and plasma systems for sale in certain countries in its territory. BioOne has made little progress to date in commercializing the platelet and plasma systems in Asian territories. Because we only have a minority investment interest in BioOne, we lack the ability to significantly influence BioOne, and are dependent on BioOne’s performance to realize milestone and royalty revenue from commercialization of our platelet and plasma systems in those countries. In Japan, regulatory authorities may require our platelet and plasma systems to be widely adopted commercially in Europe or approved by the FDA before the platelet and plasma systems are considered for approval in Japan, which would delay or prevent BioOne from achieving significant product revenue. In July 2007, BioOne raised limited additional capital in order to fund curtailed operations. At these reduced operating levels, we expect that BioOne’s abilities to commercialize the platelet and plasma systems in its Asian territories will be compromised. There is no assurance that BioOne will be able to attract additional required capital in the future to successfully commercialize those products licensed from Fenwal and us. Even if BioOne fails to commercialize the INTERCEPT Blood System in its territories, we may be unable to assert contractual rights to regain commercialization rights on satisfactory terms, if at all. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our products and product candidates, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. If competitors encounter difficulties or failures in human clinical trials or in commercial settings, we may face additional clinical, regulatory and commercial challenges. We expect our products to encounter significant competition. The INTERCEPT Blood System products compete with other approaches to blood safety currently in use, and may compete with future products that may be developed by others. Our success will depend in part on our ability to respond quickly to medical and technological changes brought about by the development and introduction of new products. Product development is risky and uncertain, and we cannot assure you that we will develop our products successfully. Competitors’ 24 Table of Contents products or technologies may make our products obsolete or non-competitive before we are able to generate any significant revenue. In addition, competitors or potential competitors may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. They may also have greater experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials and other regulatory approval procedures. Several companies are developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for products that will directly compete with or reduce the market for our pathogen inactivation systems. A number of companies are specifically focusing on alternative strategies for pathogen inactivation in platelets and plasma. Competitors in platelet pathogen inactivation may be able to offer customers systems using additive solutions other than Intersol, which we use in the INTERCEPT platelet system. In Europe, several companies, including Grifols S.A., Octapharma AG and MacoPharma International, are developing or selling commercial pathogen inactivation systems or services to treat fresh frozen plasma. Caridian is developing a pathogen inactivation system for blood products and has been issued CE marks for a pathogen reduction system for both platelets and plasma. Caridian also commenced trials on a pathogen inactivation system for whole blood, which may offer competitive advantages over our INTERCEPT Blood System, with its three distinct components for platelets, plasma and red blood cells. New methods of testing whole blood for specific pathogens have been approved by the FDA and in Europe, as have tests for bacteria in platelets. Continued delays in commercialization of our platelet and plasma systems in France and Germany may impact our ability to compete with bacterial testing for platelets. Other competitors are developing rapid, point-of-care bacterial tests, synthetic blood product substitutes and products to stimulate the growth of platelets. Development and commercialization of any of these or other related technologies could limit the potential market for our products. We may be liable and we may need to withdraw our products from the market if our products harm people. We may be liable if an accident occurs in our controlled use of hazardous materials. Our insurance coverages may be inadequate to offset losses we may incur. We are exposed to potential liability risks inherent in the testing and marketing of medical devices and pharmaceutical products. We may be liable if any of our products cause injury, illness or death. Although we will have completed rigorous preclinical and clinical safety testing prior to marketing our products, there may be harmful effects caused by our products that we are unable to identify in preclinical or clinical testing. In particular, unforeseen, rare reactions or adverse side effects related to long-term use of our products may not be observed until the products are in widespread commercial use. Because of the limited duration and number of patients receiving blood components treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System products in clinical trials, it is possible that harmful effects of our products not observed in clinical and preclinical testing could be discovered after a marketing approval has been received. Later discovery of problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in additional restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. We are subject to risks and costs of product recall, which include not only potential out-of-pocket costs, but also potential interruption to our supply chain. In such an event, our customer relations would be harmed and we would incur unforeseen losses. We maintain product liability insurance, but do not know whether the insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including certain hazardous chemicals, radioactive materials and infectious pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis viruses. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials are adequate and comply with regulatory requirements, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for any damages that result. 25 Table of Contents Virtually all of our research and development activities and the significant majority of our general and administrative activities are performed in or managed from a single site that may be subject to lengthy business interruption in the event of a severe earthquake. We also may suffer loss of computerized information and may be unable to make timely filings with regulatory agencies in the event of catastrophic failure of our data storage and backup systems. Virtually all of our research and development activities and the significant majority of our general and administrative activities are performed in or managed from our facilities in Concord, California, which are within an active earthquake fault zone. Should a severe earthquake occur, we might be unable to occupy our facilities or conduct research and development and general and administrative activities in support of our business and products until such time as our facilities could be repaired and made operational. Our property and casualty and business interruption insurance in general does not cover losses caused by earthquakes. While we have taken certain measures to protect our scientific, technological and commercial assets, a lengthy or costly disruption due to an earthquake would have a material adverse effect on us. We have also taken measures to limit damage that may occur from the loss of computerized data due to power outage, system or component failure, or corruption of data files. However, we may lose critical computerized data, which may be difficult or impossible to recreate, which may harm our business. We may be unable to make timely filings with regulatory agencies in the event of catastrophic failure of our data storage and backup systems, which may subject us to fines or adverse consequences, up to and including loss of our abilities to conduct business. We do not anticipate receiving significant economic benefit from the spin-off of our immunotherapy business. In November 2007, we spun-off our immunotherapy business to Anza. In exchange for contributed tangible and intangible assets, we received preferred stock representing an equity interest of approximately 20% of Anza’s preferred equity. The terms of sale provided Anza a right to redeem up to 1,000,000 of such shares for a nominal amount upon the failure to occur of certain circumstances relating to possible research grant funding from the DoD. We were advised informally in February 2009 that, based upon such provision, Anza may seek to redeem 1,000,000 shares held by us. If such shares are redeemed by Anza, we would own fewer shares of Anza’s preferred stock, reducing our preferred equity interest to approximately 16.0% of Anza’s outstanding preferred equity. We are evaluating whether such clause is applicable in the present circumstances. There is no assurance that the equity will have monetary value at such time we are allowed to sell it or that we will receive any proceeds upon liquidation or sale of Anza. We were informed in February 2009 that Anza had ceased operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or operate our business without infringing intellectual property rights of others. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection on our products and successfully defending our products against third-party challenges. Our technology will be protected from unauthorized use only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents or effectively maintained as trade secrets. As a result, our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain patents; • protect trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that our patents or patents that we license from others will be enforceable and afford protection against competitors. Our patents or patent applications, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our patent rights may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Others may independently develop technologies similar to ours or independently duplicate our technologies. For example, a United States patent issued to a third-party covers methods to remove psoralen compounds from blood products. We have reviewed the patent and believe there 26 Table of Contents exist substantial questions concerning its validity. We cannot be certain, however, that a court would hold the patent to be invalid or not infringed by our platelet or plasma systems, if and when those products are sold in the United States. Our key blood safety patents generally expire at various dates between 2012 and 2018. Recent patent applications will, if granted, result in patents with later expiration dates. In addition, we have a license from Fenwal to United States and foreign patents relating to the INTERCEPT Blood System, which expire from 2010 to 2022. Due to the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of our potential products, our patents may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization. This would reduce or eliminate any advantage of the patents. We cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. We may need to license the right to use third-party patents and intellectual property to continue development and commercialization of our products. We may not be able to acquire such required licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ patents, or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. We may face litigation to defend against claims of infringement, assert claims of infringement, enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how or determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. Patent litigation is costly. In addition, we may require interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions relating to our patent applications. Litigation or interference proceedings could be expensive and time consuming, and we could be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights. We may rely, in certain circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees and certain contractors. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach or our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others, disputes also may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. As our international operations grow, we may be subject to adverse fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and foreign currencies. Consequently, we may suffer losses. Our international operations are subject to risks typical of an international business, including, among other factors: differing political, economic, and regulatory climates, different tax structures, and foreign exchange volatility. We do not currently enter into any hedging contracts to normalize the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations. As a result, our future results could be materially affected by changes in these or other factors. Product sales of our blood safety products are typically made in Europe and generally are invoiced to customers in Euros. In addition, we purchase finished disposable kits for our platelet and plasma systems and incur operating expenses in Euros and other foreign currencies. Our exposure to foreign exchange rate volatility is a direct result of our product sales, cash collection and expenses to support our international operations. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations are recorded as a component of interest (expense) and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. Significant fluctuations in the volatility of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar may materially affect our results of operations. Currently we do not have any near-term plans to enter into a formal hedging program to mitigate the effects of foreign currency volatility. The market price of our stock may be highly volatile. The market prices for our securities and those of other emerging medical device and biotechnology companies have been, and may continue to be, volatile. For example, during the period from January 1, 2006, to December 31, 2008, the sale price of our common stock as quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market fluctuated 27 Table of Contents within a range from a low of $0.55 to a high of $14.76. Announcements may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Such announcements may include: • decisions regarding reimbursement and commercial adoption by customers, national blood services or governmental bodies; • biological or medical discoveries; • technological innovations discovered or new commercial services offered by us or our competitors; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; • regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries; • status of development partnerships; • dilution from future issuances of common stock, including through the exercise of vested stock options; • debt or other financings, with terms that may not be viewed favorably by shareholders; • public concern as to the safety of new technologies; • general market conditions; • comments made by analysts, including changes in analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; and • quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and financial results. Recently, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations due to the unprecedented turmoil and upheaval of the credit markets and the financial services industry, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and medical device companies, and has adversely affected the market price of our common stock. Our stock price may not meet the minimum bid price for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. Our ability to publicly or privately sell equity securities and the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market or if we are unable to transfer our listing to another stock market. On October 17, 2008, Nasdaq temporarily suspended one of the listing requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market that requires a company’s minimum bid price to be above $1.00 per share. This suspension was further extended by Nasdaq on December 19, 2008 until April 19, 2009. Our stock price is currently trading at below $1.00 per share. If our stock price does not return to a minimum bid price above $1.00 per share before April 19, 2009, we will be subject to delisting by Nasdaq for failure to meet the continued listing requirements. Delisting from Nasdaq could adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. We may fail to comply fully with elements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of this Act could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accountants attesting to the effectiveness of our internal controls. These requirements extend to the operations of our subsidiary in Europe. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as 28 Table of Contents such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude in future periods that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we cannot favorably assess, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 