Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of losses and may continue to incur losses. While we have generated positive operating profits for the past two years, we incurred a net loss from continuing operations in 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2004. During 2005 our income from continuing operations was $812 excluding the noncash charge for remeasurement of stock options discussed in Note 11 to consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. We cannot assure you that profitability will be achieved or continue in upcoming quarters or years. In order to continue profitability, we will have to maintain or increase our operating margin, which we cannot provide assurance of. If we were unable to increase revenue, if our gross margin decreases, or if we are unable to control our operating expenses, our business could produce losses. We have only recently become consistently profitable on a quarterly basis during less than the past two years, and are in a rapidly changing industry. In addition, our business depends upon winning new contracts with new customers, the size of which may vary from contract to contract. When we open new branch offices to expand our geographic presence, we expect the newly opened branch offices to produce operating losses for a period of six to eighteen months or more. Whether we are able to remain profitable in the future will depend on many factors, but primarily upon the commercial acceptance of the technologies and product lines that we promote the use of, including, importantly, the network routing and switching products and IP telephony products developed and marketed by Cisco. Our success is dependent upon maintaining our relationship with Cisco. Substantially all of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 was derived from or dependent upon the sale of Cisco products and related services. We anticipate that these products and related services will account for the majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. We have a contract with Cisco to purchase the products that we resell, and we purchase substantially all of our Cisco products directly from Cisco. Cisco can terminate this agreement on relatively short notice. Cisco has designated us an authorized reseller and we receive certain benefits from this designation, including special pricing and payment terms. We have in the past, and may in the future, purchase Cisco-centric products from other sources. When we purchase Cisco-centric products from sources other than Cisco, the prices are typically higher and the payment terms are not as favorable. Accordingly, if we are unable to purchase directly from Cisco and maintain our status as an authorized reseller of Cisco network products, our business could be significantly harmed. If we are unable to purchase Cisco products from other sources on terms that are comparable to the terms we currently receive, our business would be harmed and our operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Our success depends upon broad market acceptance of IP telephony. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived directly from or dependent upon our customer implementing IP telephony. The market for IP telephony products and services is relatively new and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and strong customer demand for new products, applications and services. As is typical of a new and rapidly evolving industry, the demand for, and market acceptance of, recently introduced IP telephony products and services are highly uncertain. We cannot assure you that the use of IP telephony will become widespread. The commercial acceptance of IP telephony products, including Cisco-centric products, may be affected by a number of factors including: • quality of infrastructure; • security concerns; • equipment, software or other technology failures; • government regulation; • inconsistent quality of service; • poor voice quality over IP networks; and • lack of availability of cost-effective, high-speed network capacity. If the market for IP telephony fails to develop, develops more slowly than we anticipate, or if IP telephony products fail to achieve market acceptance, our business will be adversely affected. Although our success is generally dependent upon the market acceptance of IP telephony, our success also depends upon a broad market acceptance of Cisco-centric IP telephony. We cannot assure you that the Cisco-centric IP telephony products we offer will obtain broad market acceptance. Competition, technological advances and other factors could reduce demand for, or market acceptance of, the Cisco-centric IP telephony products and services we offer. In addition, new products, applications or services may be developed that are better adapted to changing technology or customer demands and that could render our Cisco-centric products and services unmarketable or obsolete. To compete successfully, the Cisco-centric IP telephony products we offer must achieve broad market acceptance and we must continually enhance our related software and customer services in a timely and cost- effective manner. If the Cisco-centric IP telephony products we offer fail to achieve broad market acceptance, or if we do not adapt our existing services to customer demands or evolving industry standards, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be significantly harmed. Our business depends on the level of capital spending by enterprises for the advanced technology products and services we offer. As a supplier of advanced technology solutions for enterprises, our business depends on the level of capital spending for such solutions by enterprises in our markets. We believe that an enterprise’s investment in advanced technology systems such as network infrastructure, IP telephony, wireless networking, network data storage and network security, and related services depends largely on general economic conditions that can vary significantly as a result of changing conditions in the economy as a whole. The market for the solutions we provide may continue to grow at a modest rate or not at all, or may decrease. If our customers decrease their level of spending our revenue and operating results would likely be adversely affected. In the latter part of 2007, and continuing into early 2008, we witnessed decreased spending by customers due to what we believe was uncertainty surrounding the status of the U.S. economy. To the extent that customers continue to delay moving forward with projects because of actual or perceived economic uncertainty, our revenue and profitability will be negatively impacted. Our profitability depends on Cisco product pricing and incentive programs. Our annual and quarterly gross profits and gross margins on product sales are materially affected by Cisco product pricing and incentive programs. These incentive programs currently enable us to qualify for cash rebates or product pricing discounts and are generally earned based on sales volumes of particular Cisco products and customer 15 Table of Contents satisfaction levels. We recognized vendor incentives as a reduction of a cost of sales amounting to $7,200, $6,303 and $2,876 in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, representing 3.5%, 4.0%, and 2.7% of total revenues. From time to time Cisco changes the criteria upon which qualification for these incentives are based and there is no assurance that we will continue to meet the program qualifications. Cisco is under no obligation to continue these incentive programs. A substantial portion of our customers are based in Texas. Until mid-2005 we were primarily a Texas-based organization and the majority of our customers were in Texas. While we are much less dependent upon Texas customers now than we were two years ago, a substantial portion of our customers are still based in Texas. Therefore, our revenue and therefore our profitability would be materially affected by a downturn in economic conditions in Texas, in addition to any general economic downturn in the United States. If demand for the products and services we provide to customers in Texas decreases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. Our strategy contemplates rapid geographic expansion, which we may be unable to achieve, and which is subject to numerous uncertainties. A component of our strategy is to become one of the leading national providers of the advanced technology solutions we provide. To achieve this objective, we must either acquire existing businesses or hire qualified personnel in various locations throughout the country, fund a rapid increase in operations and implement corporate governance and management systems that will enable us to function efficiently on a national basis. Identifying and acquiring existing businesses is a time-consuming process and is subject to numerous risks. Qualified personnel are in demand, and we expect the demand to increase as the market for the advanced technology solutions that we provide grows. We will also likely face competition from our existing competitors and from local and regional competitors in the markets we attempt to enter. A rapid expansion in the size and geographical scope of our business is likely to introduce management challenges that may be difficult to overcome. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding our operations or achieving our goal of becoming a national provider. An unsuccessful expansion effort would consume capital and human resources without achieving the desired benefit and would have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional financing to achieve expansion of our business operations, and failure to obtain financing may prevent us from carrying out our business plan. We may need additional capital to grow our business. Our business plan calls for the expansion of sales of our advanced technology solutions to enterprises in geographical markets where we currently do not operate, including expansion through acquisitions. If we do not have adequate capital or are not able to raise the capital to fund our business objectives, we may have to delay the implementation of our business plan. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing if required, or if financing is available, there is no assurance that the terms would be favorable to existing stockholders. Our ability to obtain additional financing is subject to a number of factors, including general market conditions, investor acceptance of our business plan, our operating performance and financial condition, and investor sentiment. These factors may affect the timing, amount, terms or conditions of additional financing available to us. We require access to significant working capital and vendor credit to fund our day-to-day operations. Our failure to comply with the financial and other covenants under our working capital facility could lead to a termination of the agreement and an acceleration of our outstanding debt. We require access to significant working capital and vendor credit to fund our day-to-day operations. Our credit facility with Castle Pines Capital (“CPC”) contain a number of financial and other covenants. A breach of these financial or other covenants, unless waived, would be a default under the credit facility. Upon an event of default, CPC may terminate the facility and/or declare all amounts outstanding under such facility immediately due and payable. The acceleration of our debt could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, the amount of working capital available to us under the credit facility is dependent upon the amount and quality of our accounts receivable. A significant default or payment delays of our accounts receivable could 16 Table of Contents materially adversely affect our borrowing base and our access to sufficient working capital, which would have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to manage our growth effectively, which may harm our business. The ability to operate our business in a rapidly evolving market requires effective planning and management. Our efforts to grow have placed, and are expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our personnel, management systems, infrastructure and other resources. Our ability to manage future growth effectively will require us to successfully attract, train, motivate and manage new employees, to integrate new employees into our operations and to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and procedures. If we are unable to implement adequate controls or integrate new employees into our business in an efficient and timely manner, our operations could be adversely affected and our growth could be impaired. Our operating results have historically been volatile, and may continue to be volatile, particularly from quarter to quarter. Our quarter-to-quarter revenue, gross profit and operating profitability have fluctuated significantly. During quarterly periods in which we realize lower levels of revenue our profitability is generally negatively impacted. Our quarterly operating results have historically depended on, and may fluctuate in the future as a result of, many factors including: • volume and timing of orders received during the quarter; • amount and timing of supplier incentives received in any particular quarter, which can vary substantially; • gross margin fluctuations associated with the mix of products sold; • general economic conditions; • patterns of capital spending by enterprises for communications products; • the timing of new product announcements and releases; • pricing pressures; • the cost and effect of acquisitions; • the amount and timing of sales incentives we may receive from our suppliers, particularly Cisco; and • the availability and cost of products and components from our suppliers. As a result of these and other factors, we have historically experienced, and may continue to experience, fluctuations in sales and operating results. In addition, it is possible that in the future our operating results may fall below the expectations of analysts and investors, and as a result, the price of our securities may fall. We have many competitors and expect new competitors to enter our market, which could increase price competition and may affect the amount of business available to us and the prices that we can charge for our products and services. The markets for our all of products and services are extremely competitive and subject to rapid change. Substantial growth in demand for the advanced technology products we provide has been predicted by industry analysts, and we therefore expect competition to increase as existing competitors enhance and expand their products and services and as new participants enter the market. A rapid increase in competition could negatively affect the amount of business that we obtain and the prices that we are able to charge. Additionally, many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial resources, customer support, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and more established relationships than we do. We cannot be sure that we will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully. Compared to us, our competitors may be able to: • develop and expand their products and services more quickly; 17 Table of Contents • adapt faster to new or emerging technologies and changing customer needs; • take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily; • negotiate more favorable agreements with vendors; • devote greater resources to marketing and selling their products; and • address customer service issues more effectively. Some of our competitors may also be able to increase their market share by providing customers with additional benefits or by reducing their prices. We cannot be sure that we will be able to match price reductions by our competitors. In addition, our competitors may form strategic relationships with each other to better compete with us. These relationships may take the form of strategic investments, joint-marketing agreements, licenses or other contractual arrangements that could increase our competitors’ ability to serve customers. A material and/or rapid increase in competition would likely have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations Business acquisitions, dispositions or joint ventures entail numerous risks and may disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or distract management attention. As part of our business strategy, we plan to consider acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer products, services and technologies complementary to ours. Any acquisition could materially adversely affect our operating results and/or the price of our securities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, some of which we have experienced and may continue to experience, including: • unanticipated costs and liabilities; • difficulty of integrating the operations, products and personnel of the acquired business; • difficulty retaining key personnel of the acquired business; • difficulty retaining customers of the acquired businesses; • difficulties in managing the financial and strategic position of acquired or developed products, services and technologies; • difficulties in maintaining customer relationships, in particular where a substantial portion of the target’s sales were derived from products that compete with products that we currently offer; • the diversion of management’s attention from the core business; • inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; and • damage to relationships with acquired employees and customers as a result of integration of the acquired business. Finally, to the extent that shares of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock are issued in connection with any future acquisitions, dilution to our existing stockholders will result and our earnings per share may suffer. Any future acquisitions may not generate the anticipated level of revenue and earnings or provide any benefit to our business, and we may not achieve a satisfactory return on our investment in any acquired businesses. Our international operations, which we plan to expand, will subject us to additional risks that may adversely affect our operating results due to increased costs. Revenue generated by products delivered and services provided outside the United States, as a percentage of consolidated revenue, was approximately 3.7%, 4.9% and 3.5% for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Substantially all of our international revenue represents products delivered or services provided in foreign countries for companies based in the United States or for United States Armed Forces under contracts entered into, administered and paid in the United States. We intend to continue to pursue international opportunities. Pursuit of international opportunities may require us to make significant investments for an extended period before returns on such investments, if any, are realized. International operations are subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and telecommunication standards; 18 Table of Contents • tariffs and other trade barriers; • risk of loss in currency exchange transactions; • exchange controls or other currency restrictions; • difficulty in collecting receivables; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • the need to customize marketing and products; • inadequate protection of intellectual property in countries outside the United States; • adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability. Any of these factors could prevent us from increasing our revenue and otherwise adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to overcome some of these barriers and may incur significant costs in addressing others. If we lose key personnel we may not be able to achieve our objectives. We are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management team, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, James Long, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Mark Hilz, and our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Brian Fontana. If for any reason, these or other senior executives or other key members of management do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to retain our senior executives or other personnel necessary for the maintenance or development of our business. We may not be able to hire and retain highly skilled technical employees, which could affect our ability to compete effectively and could adversely affect our operating results. We depend on highly skilled technical personnel to research and develop and to market and service our advanced technology solutions and to provide the services we provide to our customers. To succeed, we must hire and retain employees who are highly skilled in rapidly changing communications technologies. In particular, as we implement our strategy of focusing on advanced technology solutions, we will need to: • hire more employees with experience developing and providing advanced technology products and services; • retrain our current personnel to sell and support the advanced technology solutions that we intend to market in the future; and • retain personnel to service our products. Individuals who can perform the services we need to provide our products and services are scarce. Because the competition for qualified employees in our industry is intense, hiring and retaining qualified employees is both time-consuming and expensive. We may not be able to hire enough qualified personnel to meet our needs as our business grows or to retain the employees we currently have. Our inability to hire and retain the individuals we need could hinder our ability to sell our existing products, systems, software or services or to develop and sell new ones. If we are not able to attract and retain qualified employees, we will not be able to successfully implement our business plan and our business will be harmed. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be harmed. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and other measures, intellectual property is difficult to protect and these measures may not provide adequate protection. Patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of our patent filings, could render our intellectual property less valuable. Competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property, disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise and our intellectual property may otherwise become known or independently developed by competitors. The failure to protect our intellectual property could seriously harm our business because we believe that developing new products and technology that are unique to us is important to our success. If we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be significantly impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. 19 Table of Contents We may be found to infringe on third-party intellectual property rights. Third parties may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to their patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights in technology that is important to us. The asserted claims and/or litigation could include claims against us or our suppliers alleging infringement of intellectual property rights with respect to our products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of the claims, they could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards, which are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims resulting in large settlements. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Costs of compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related SEC regulations may harm our results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires heightened financial disclosure and corporate governance for all publicly traded companies. Although costs of compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are uncertain due to several factors, we expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) regulations or NASDAQ listing requirements may result in penalties, fines or delisting of our securities from the NASDAQ, which could limit our ability to access the capital markets, having a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 