Item 1A. Risk Factors – Government investigations and litigation relating to stock option matters are pending, the scope and outcome of which could have a negative effect on the price of our securities, liquidity and business. •Item 3. Legal Proceedings – Stock Option Investigations and Litigation •Item 6. Selected Financial Data •Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements and Stock Option Investigation •Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Estimates •Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction Monster Worldwide, Inc. is the premier global online employment solution, striving to bring people together to advance their lives. We also operate an Internet Advertising & Fees division, providing consumers with content, services and useful offerings that help them manage the development and direction of their career. Our clients range from Fortune 100 companies to small and medium-sized enterprises and government agencies. We are headquartered in New York with approximately 4,900 employees globally as of December 31, 2006. Our executive offices are located at 622 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Our predecessor business was founded in 1967, and our current company was incorporated in Delaware and became a public company in 1996. From 2003 to 2006 we exited all of our former offline business units, and we are currently a global Internet company. Our telephone number is (212) 351-7000 and our Internet address is www.monsterworldwide.com. We make all of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") available on our website, free of charge, under the caption "Investor Relations—SEC Filings." Included in these filings are our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, which are available as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish such materials with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 3 Our Strategy Monster Worldwide's long-term business strategy is designed to capitalize on the significant opportunity we perceive in the global online recruitment marketplace. Our goal is to significantly grow revenue by expanding the reach of our sales channels across each geographic area. We will continue to invest in our business to grow market share, expand our leadership position, achieve long-term profitability and build shareholder value. In order to achieve these goals, our strategy revolves around the following growth objectives that we believe are critical to our long-term success: Being A Customer-Focused Company. Monster is committed to becoming a customer-driven company. Monster was built by focusing on the needs of employers and job seekers. We ask employers to trust us with their job positions, and consumers to trust us with their careers. We are developing stronger customer relationships and better products as a part of our growth strategy. We are focused not only on customer service and satisfaction, but also on building and maintaining customer loyalty. Being Local, Getting Personal, Going Global. To fuel continued growth in our business, we're striving to increase our local and regional presence, while getting more personal with our customers and job seekers, and at the same time expanding globally. Our growing penetration of local markets – all across the world – is helping to raise our brand visibility. Media alliances are also enhancing our local presence, and we are encouraged by the response to our strategy in this area. We will continue to seek expansion opportunities in markets and geographies that we do not currently serve. Innovation. We are fully committed to developing new and innovative products and solutions for our customers and users. We have refocused our efforts across the entire enterprise to streamline and globalize Monster's research and development efforts. In the future, we expect new products, services and solutions to make a meaningful revenue contribution. Monster's goal is to rapidly take our ideas from concept to commercialization, and enhance our customer and job seeker experience with more innovative products and services. Speed & Efficiency. We continually seek opportunities for making our business more nimble and efficient. Speed and efficiency let us serve our markets as effectively as possible. While we will focus on high growth and rapid expansion opportunities, we will do so in an efficient and disciplined manner. Building Our Internet Advertising Business. In its first year as a stand-alone business segment, our Internet Advertising & Fees ("IAF") business emerged as a growth opportunity that diversifies Monster from the Careers "only" business by speaking to consumers through a new and different experience on Monster. We're broadening our brands and our content to serve our consumers even when they are not actively looking for a job and by being there to help them get the most out of their careers. Our large global user base and portfolio of work and life-style related sites support our investment in this area. Expansion Opportunities. To complement the organic growth in our existing businesses, we are also taking a rigorous and disciplined approach to identifying expansion opportunities. This approach helps us target new geographic markets, evaluate the potential for profitability in those markets and make disciplined decisions before committing the Company's resources. We will continue to develop a wide array of growth strategies, such as building, buying, and partnering with local businesses, or investing to grow existing properties. Investing in Our Talent. We believe that our employees are our greatest asset, and we will continue to invest in human capital across the organization. We will continue to provide career development, management, and leadership training to help our employees reach their full potential. Monster is focused on clearly defining employees' roles and responsibilities, and rewarding superior performance. We are also committed to fostering diversity and equal opportunity across our entire global workforce. 4 Our Services We operate in three business segments: Monster Careers – North America; Monster Careers – International and Internet Advertising & Fees. For the year ended December 31, 2006, these operating segments represented approximately 59%, 27% and 14% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we disposed of our global Advertising & Communications business to focus our resources on building the Monster franchise and expanding the content of our online businesses. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our segment results. Monster Careers (North America and International) Monster.com is the world's premiere employment solution, bringing people together to advance their lives, across 36 countries around the world. We have been able to build on Monster's brand and create worldwide awareness by offering online recruiting solutions that we believe are redefining the way employers and job seekers connect. For the employer, our goal is to provide the most effective solutions and easiest to use technology to simplify the hiring process and deliver access to our community of job seekers. For job seekers, our purpose is to help advance our users' careers by providing work-related content, services and advice to enhance the consumer experience. Our services and solutions include searchable job postings, a resume database, and other career related content. Job seekers can search our job postings and post their resumes free-of-charge on each of our websites. Monster's job search, resume posting services and basic networking are free to the job seeker. Monster also offers premium career services at a fee to job seekers, such as resume writing, resume priority listing and premium networking. Employers and human resources professionals pay to post jobs, search our resume database, and utilize career site hosting and applicant tracking systems and other ancillary services. Monster Careers targets the enterprise market, or those businesses that we consider to be among the 1,500 largest organizations globally. Additionally, we also concentrate our efforts on expanding our reach to include small to medium-size businesses ("SMBs"), those businesses with approximately 10 to 2,000 employees, that operate primarily in local and regional markets. We believe that SMBs comprise a largely untapped market of over 2 million businesses in the U.S. alone. During 2006, we also expanded our sales distribution point in North America, by entering into alliances with leading media and publishing companies that expand our reach with over 2 million weekly newspaper readers in the local markets. We intend to pursue similar alliances and partnerships in Europe and Asia. Internet Advertising & Fees Our Internet Advertising & Fees division provides consumers with content, services and useful offers that help them manage the development and direction of their current and future careers, while providing employers, educators and marketers with innovative and highly-targeted media-driven solutions to impact these consumers at critical moments in their lives. Our network of online properties appeals to advertisers and other third parties as these sites cost-effectively deliver certain discrete demographic groups in a relevant and engaging online environment. We believe that by strengthening our user engagement, driving additional traffic and increasing usage of our websites, we can increase the appeal to our customers and reward them with a higher return on their marketing investment. Our sites are constantly evolving to integrate new and innovative features, in order to provide the relevant content that connects with our users. The majority of our services are free to users and while they currently are primarily offered in North America, the Internet Advertising & Fees business will be expanding across Monster Worldwide's global network of websites. Revenue for the Internet Advertising & Fees division is derived primarily from three types of services: lead generation, display advertising and products sold to consumers for a fee. Lead generation is a 5 highly scalable direct response business in which marketers pay for connections to consumers whose demographics and interests match the requirements of specific business offerings. Our large database of users and ongoing collection of numerous points of data allows us to provide our clients with highly targeted and valuable leads. Display advertising opportunities have been integrated across the Monster Worldwide network of websites, allowing marketers to deliver targeted online advertising messages via numerous sizes and formats of creative units. Consumers come to Monster's websites for information and advice on how to manage critical life transitions, and this environment is typically seen by marketers as desirable for promotion of products and services as consumers are actively looking for new ideas and solutions. Premium content and services comprise the final source of revenue for the Internet Advertising & Fees division, as consumers pay for access to information and tools that provide greater support in the development of their educational and career opportunities. To date, our largest customer categories are employers, schools, financial services and consumer products and services. Employers use our media solutions to attract job seekers to job postings and to help job seekers better understand what it is like to work for a particular employer. Schools find our advertising and lead generation services to be effective tools in attracting new students to investigate enrollment in higher education programs. Numerous companies in the financial services sector continue to find success promoting their products to consumers who are looking for help in managing the cost of their education and in establishing a strong financial base for their careers. Marketers of a variety of consumer products and services, including automotive, telecommunications, apparel and entertainment have come to us to provide cost-effective and highly targeted solutions to connect with specific consumer segments. Sales and Marketing We maintain separate sales and marketing staffs for our Monster Careers and Internet Advertising & Fees businesses. The sales force for our Monster Careers business consists of Telesales and Field sales and is complemented by a self service online sales channel which we refer to as "eCommerce." Within these groups are specialty units dedicated to serving our vertical markets, such as enterprise, small-medium sized businesses, government, healthcare and staffing. Our Telesales staff is primarily responsible for telemarketing and customer service for small to medium sized clients and is located in our call centers in Indianapolis, Indiana; Maynard, Massachusetts; Tempe, Arizona; Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Frankfurt, Germany; Glasgow, Scotland; and Marseilles, France. Our Field sales staff focuses on both local and national clients and is dispersed throughout our offices globally. Our eCommerce channel is available to all customers groups and is most heavily used by smaller employers today. Our Internet Advertising & Fees sales force is located throughout the United States and is focused on cross-selling the products of each property within its network. We use sponsorships and broad based media, such as broadcast television, the Internet, radio, business, consumer and trade publications, to market and promote the Monster brand. The majority of our marketing and promotion expense is allocated to our Monster Careers – North America and International business units. Customers and Consumers Our customers are comprised of individuals, small and medium-sized organizations, enterprise organizations, federal, state and local government agencies and educational institutions. No one client accounts for more than 5% of our total annual revenue. In the United States, our Monster properties served approximately 23 million unique visitors in December 2006, according to Comscore Media Metrix. Our consumer traffic resulted in growth for new resumes, job applications and search agents. 6 Competition The markets for our services and products are highly competitive and are characterized by pressure to win new customers, expand the market for our services and to incorporate new capabilities and technologies. We face competition from a number of sources. These sources include media companies (primarily newspaper publishers), other employment-related websites, Internet portals, national and regional advertising agencies and marketing communication firms. Many advertising agencies, media companies and newspaper publishers have internally developed or acquired new media capabilities such as online recruitment websites. New boutique businesses that provide integrated or specialized services (such as advertising services or website design) and are technologically proficient, especially in the new media arena, are also competing with us. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have long operating histories, and some have greater financial, management, technological, development, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, our ability to maintain our existing clients and generate new clients depends to a significant degree on the quality of our services, pricing and reputation among our clients and potential clients. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete are dependent in part on the protection of our original content for the Internet and on the intangible value associated with our Internet uniform resource locators ("URLs"), domain names, trademarks, trade names, service marks, patent and other proprietary rights. We rely on copyright laws to protect the original content that we develop for the Internet. In addition, we rely on Federal and state trademark laws to provide additional protection for the identifying marks appearing on our Internet sites. A degree of uncertainty exists concerning the application and enforcement of copyright and trade dress laws to the Internet, and there can be no assurance that existing laws will provide adequate protection for our original content or the appearance of our Internet sites. In addition, because copyright laws do not prohibit independent development of similar content, there can be no assurance that copyright laws will provide any competitive advantage to us. We also assert common law protection on certain names and marks that we have used in connection with our business activities. We rely on trade secret and copyright laws to protect the proprietary technologies that we have developed to manage and improve our Internet sites and advertising services, but there can be no assurance that such laws will provide sufficient protection to us, that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to ours, or that third parties will not copy or otherwise obtain and use our technologies without authorization. We have obtained one patent and applied for several other patents with respect to certain of our software systems, methods and related technologies, but there can be no assurance that any pending applications will be granted or that any patents will not in the future be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide us with a competitive advantage. In addition, we rely on certain technology licensed from third parties, and may be required to license additional technology in the future, for use in managing our Internet sites and providing related services to users and advertising customers. Our ability to generate fees from Internet commerce may also depend on data encryption and authentication technologies that we may be required to license from third parties. There can be no assurance that these third-party technology licenses will be available or will continue to be available to us on acceptable commercial terms or at all. The inability to enter into and maintain any of these technology licenses could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights could entail significant expense and could be difficult or impossible, particularly given the global nature of the Internet and the fact that the laws of other countries may afford us little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties will not bring claims 7 of patent, copyright or trademark infringement against us. We anticipate an increase in patent infringement claims involving Internet-related technologies as the number of products and competitors in this market grows and as related patents are issued. Further, there can be no assurance that third parties will not claim that we have misappropriated their trade secrets, creative ideas or formats or otherwise infringed their proprietary rights in connection with our Internet content or technology. Any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management attention, require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements or prevent us from using important technologies or methods, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Employees At February 1, 2007, we employed approximately 5,000 people worldwide. Generally, our employees are not represented by a labor union or collective bargaining agreements except that our employees located in France, Italy and Spain are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are generally prescribed by local labor law. We regard the relationships with our employees as satisfactory. Executive Officers and Directors As of February 21, 2007, our executive officers and directors are as follows: Name Age Position William M. Pastore 58 CEO, President and Director Charles Baker 40 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Chris Power 43 Chief Financial Officer-Global Operations Jonathan Trumbull 39 Global Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Steven Pogorzelski 45 Group President-International Bradford J. Baker 42 President-Product, Technology and Service Douglas Klinger 42 President-Monster Careers North America George R. Eisele 70 Director John Gaulding 61 Director Salvatore Iannuzzi 52 Director Michael Kaufman 61 Director Ronald J. Kramer 48 Director Phillip R. Lochner, Jr. 63 Director David A. Stein 68 Director John Swann 70 Director William M. Pastore joined the Company in October 2002 as Chief Operating Officer and became President and Chief Operating Officer in February 2006 and CEO and a director in October 2006. Prior to joining the Company as Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Pastore was a consultant to the Company from September 2002 to October 2002. Prior thereto, Mr. Pastore was President of CIGNA HealthCare from January 1999 to May 2002 and Senior Vice President of CIGNA HealthCare from December 1995 to January 1999. Prior to joining CIGNA HealthCare, Mr. Pastore spent nearly 25 years at Citibank, N.A., in numerous senior operating roles. 8 Charles Baker joined the Company in March 2005 as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From June 1993 to March 2005, Mr. Baker served in positions of increasing responsibility in the Equity Research department at Smith Barney, a division of Citigroup, Inc., serving as Managing Director from January 2000 to March 2005. Prior to joining Smith Barney, Mr. Baker spent two years as an Equity Research Analyst at Morgan Stanley & Co. and two years in research assistant positions at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. Chris Power joined the Company in April 2002 as Chief Financial Officer of the Monster North America division. He was promoted to the role of Chief Financial Officer for Monster Worldwide North America operations in February 2003 and was appointed to his current position in March 2005. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Power spent fourteen years with Nortel Networks, primarily in finance and strategy roles. Jonathan Trumbull joined the Company in October 2002 as Vice President and Corporate Controller and was named to his current position in March 2005. From 1989 to October 2002, Mr. Trumbull was associated with Ernst & Young, LLP, most recently as Senior Manager from 1997 to October 2002. Mr. Trumbull is a Certified Public Accountant. Steven Pogorzelski joined the Company in 1992 in the Advertising & Communications division, where he served from 1992 to December 1998. In December 1998, he joined the Monster division and served as Executive Vice President-Global Sales until April 2001. From April 2001 to September 2005, he served as President, Monster North America until which time he was named to his current position. Bradford J. Baker joined the Company in June 2001 and served as Senior Vice President, Consumer Marketing Programs from June 2001 to February 2002, Senior Vice President of Campus from March 2002 to December 2003, Senior Vice President of Product from January 2004 to July 2004, Senior Vice President of Product and Marketing from July 2004 to January 2005, Chief Product and Marketing Officer US from January 2005 to May 2005, Global Chief Product & Marketing Officer from May 2005 to September 2006 and President-Product, Technology and Service from September 2006 to present. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Baker co-founded Making It Count, which was acquired by the Company in June 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Baker served in general and brand management roles with Graphic Management, Kraft Foods and The Proctor & Gamble Company. Douglas Klinger joined the Company in September 2005. From April 2004 to September 2005, Mr. Klinger was President of Bee Mountain LLC, a strategic advisory firm to investment fund managers, healthcare companies and the Company. From 1994 to April 2004, Mr. Klinger served in positions of increasing responsibility with CIGNA Corporation, serving as President of CIGNA Health Services from February 1997 to April 2004, as President & CEO of CIGNA Dental Health, Inc. during 1997 and as Senior Vice President of CIGNA Retirement & Investment Services from 1994 to 1997. Prior to joining CIGNA Corporation, Mr. Klinger served in positions of increasing responsibility with PNC Bank Corp. from 1986 to 1994 most recently as a Managing Director. George R. Eisele has been a director of the Company since September 1987. Mr. Eisele was an Executive Vice President of the Company from 1976 to May 2005 and managed various business units in North America and Europe. Mr. Eisele managed TMP Direct, the Company's direct marketing business unit, from 1989 until May 2, 2005 when the business unit was sold to Gecko Inc., an entity owned 65% by Mr. Eisele. Following its sale by the Company, Mr. Eisele continues to head TMP Direct as its Chief Executive Officer. John Gaulding has been a director of the Company since June 2001 and also served as a director of the Company from January 1996 to October 1999. Mr. Gaulding is a private investor and business consultant in the fields of strategy and organization. He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of National Insurance Group, a publicly traded financial information services company, from April 1996 through July 11, 1996, the date of such company's sale. For six years prior thereto, he was President 9 and Chief Executive Officer of ADP Claims Solutions Group. From 1985 to 1990, Mr. Gaulding was President and Chief Executive Officer of Pacific Bell Directory, the Yellow Pages publishing unit of Pacific Telesis Group. Mr. Gaulding served as Co-Chairman of the Yellow Pages Publishers Association from 1987 to 1990. Mr. Gaulding is a director of ANTs software inc., a developer of data management software, and Yellow Pages Group, Inc., a public Canadian publisher of yellow pages and specialized vertical directories. Salvatore Iannuzzi has been a director of the Company since July 2006. Mr. Iannuzzi is president of Motorola, Inc.'s Enterprise Mobility business. He served as a director of Symbol Technologies, Inc. from December 2003 until January 9, 2007, the date of such company's sale to Motorola, Inc., and as President and Chief Executive Officer of Symbol from January 2006 until January 9, 2007. He previously served as Interim President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer from August 2005 to January 2006 and as Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative and Control Officer from April 2005 to August 2005. He served as the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Symbol Technologies from December 2003 to April 2005. From August 2004 to April 2005, Mr. Iannuzzi was an independent consultant. Prior thereto, from April 2000 to August 2004, Mr. Iannuzzi served as Chief Administrative Officer of CIBC World Markets. Michael Kaufman has been a director of the Company since October 1997. Until July 1, 2000, Mr. Kaufman was the President of SBC/Prodigy Transition. Mr. Kaufman previously served as President and CEO of Pacific Bell's Consumer's Market Group. Prior thereto, Mr. Kaufman was the President and CEO of Pacific Bell Communications, a subsidiary of SBC Communications Inc., and from 1993 through April 1997 he was the regional president for the Central and West Texas market area of Southwestern Bell Telephone. Ronald J. Kramer has been a director of the Company since February 2000. Mr. Kramer has served as President and a director of Wynn Resorts, Limited, a developer, owner and operator of hotel and casino resorts, since April 2002. Mr. Kramer is also a member of the board of trustees of Republic Property Trust, a real estate investment trust, and a director of Griffon Corporation, a diversified manufacturing company. Philip R. Lochner, Jr. has been a director of the Company since December 2006. Mr. Lochner served as Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of Time Warner Inc. from July 1991 to June 1998. Previously, Mr. Lochner served as a Commissioner on the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Lochner also serves on the boards of directors of Apria Healthcare Group Inc., CLARCOR Inc., CMS Energy Corporation and Crane Co. David A. Stein has been a director of the Company since June 2003. Mr. Stein was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Industrial Corporation, the Jacksonville, Florida-area Burger King franchisee of 33 Burger King restaurants until December 2004. Prior thereto, Mr. Stein was a Burger King franchisee for more than 40 years. He is Chairman of Jacksonville-based King Provision Corporation, an approved Burger King food and paper distributor, and Chairman of T.L. Cannon Corporation, a franchisee of Applebee's restaurants in New York and Connecticut. Mr. Stein was a founder of the Jewish Community Alliance in Jacksonville, Florida. He has also served the United Way, the Jacksonville Chamber of Commerce, University Medical Center, University of North Florida, WJCT Public Television and other Jacksonville-area organizations and clubs as an officer or Board member. John Swann has been a director of the Company since September 1996. In 1995, Mr. Swann founded Cactus Digital Imaging Systems, Ltd., Canada's largest supplier of electronically produced large format color prints. Mr. Swann sold Cactus Digital Imaging Systems, Ltd. in June 2000. 10 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Government investigations and litigation relating to stock option matters are pending, the scope and outcome of which could have a negative effect on the price of our securities, liquidity and business. On June 12, 2006, we announced that a committee of independent directors of the Board of Directors (the "Special Committee") was conducting an independent investigation to review the Company's historical stock option grant practices and related accounting. The Special Committee subsequently determined that the exercise price for a substantial number of stock option grants during the periods between 1997 through March 31, 2003 differed from the fair market value of the underlying shares on the measurement date. The United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York ("USAO") and the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") have informed the Company that each is conducting an investigation into the Company's past stock option grants. In connection therewith, the Company has received a grand jury subpoena from the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and requests for the voluntary production of documents from the SEC. We are fully cooperating with the USAO and the SEC. On February 15, 2007, our former general counsel pleaded guilty to two felony counts relating to those historical grants and the SEC instituted a civil action against him. In addition, shareholder derivative actions against a number of current and former officers and directors of the Company relating to our stock option grant practices have been filed in both the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York County, in which the Company is named as a nominal defendant, and a class action was brought against the Company and a number of current and former officers and directors on behalf of participants in the Company's 401(k) plan alleging violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA") based on these practices. These lawsuits are described more fully in Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" The investigations and related litigation have imposed, and are likely to continue to impose, significant costs on us, both monetarily and in requiring attention by our management team. While we are unable to estimate the costs that we may incur in the future, these are likely to include: •professional fees in connection with the conduct of the investigations and the defense of the litigation; •potential damages, fines, penalties or settlement costs; and •payments to, or on behalf of, our current and former officers and directors subject to the investigation or named in the litigation pursuant to our indemnification obligations (in certain circumstances these indemnification payments are recoverable if it is determined that the officer or director at issue acted improperly, but there is no assurance that we will be able to recover such payments). Furthermore, while we believe that a Special Committee of our Board of Directors has conducted a comprehensive investigation, it is possible that additional issues may be raised as a result of the ongoing legal proceedings or in the course of the review of the findings of the investigation. Adverse developments in the legal proceedings or the investigation arising out of our historical stock option granting practices or any other matter raised could have an adverse impact on our business and our stock price, including increased stock volatility and could also harm our ability to raise additional capital or engage in transactions in the future. We rely on the value of our brands, particularly Monster, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing. Our success depends on our brands and their value. Our business would be harmed if we were unable to adequately protect our brand names, particularly Monster. We believe that maintaining and expanding the Monster brand is an important aspect of our efforts to attract and expand our user and 11 client base. We also believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the growing number of Internet sites and the relatively low barriers to entry. We have spent considerable money and resources to date on the establishment and maintenance of the Monster brand. We may spend increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, advertising, marketing and other brand-building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of the Monster brand. Despite this, we may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of the Monster brand and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of the Monster brand in a cost-effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed significantly. We are also susceptible to others imitating our products, particularly Monster, and infringing on our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, upon which we are dependent. In addition, the laws of foreign countries do not necessarily protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Imitation of our products, particularly Monster, or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise reduce our revenues. Our operations have been and will be affected by future global economic fluctuations. The general level of economic activity in the regions and industries in which we operate significantly affects demand for our services. When economic activity slows, many companies hire fewer employees. Therefore, our operating results, business and financial condition could be significantly harmed by an economic downturn in the future, especially in regions or industries where our operations are heavily concentrated. Further, we may face increased pricing pressures during such periods. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: •the timing and amount of existing clients' subscription renewals; •entering new markets; •enhancements to existing services; •the hiring cycles of employers; •changes in general economic conditions, such as recessions, that could affect recruiting efforts generally and online recruiting efforts in particular; •the magnitude and timing of marketing initiatives; •the maintenance and development of our strategic relationships; •our ability to manage our anticipated growth and expansion; •our ability to attract and retain customers; •technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the Internet generally or the operation of our products and services specifically; and •the timing and integration of our acquisitions. We face risks relating to developing technology, including the Internet. The market for Internet products and services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. The emerging character of these 12 products and services and their rapid evolution will require our continuous improvement in the performance, features and reliability of our Internet content, particularly in response to competitive offerings. We may not be successful in responding quickly, cost effectively and sufficiently to these developments. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet technologies or standards could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our websites and services. This could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The online recruiting market continues to evolve. The adoption of online recruiting and job seeking services, particularly among those companies that have historically relied upon traditional recruiting methods, requires the acceptance of a new way of conducting business, exchanging information, advertising and applying for jobs. Many of our potential customers, particularly smaller companies, have little or no experience using the Internet as a recruiting tool, and only select segments of the job-seeking population have experience using the Internet to look for jobs. Companies may not continue to allocate portions of their budgets to Internet-based recruiting and job seekers may not use online job seeking methods. As a result, we may not be able to effectively compete with traditional recruiting and job seeking methods. If Internet-based recruiting does not remain widely accepted or if we are not able to anticipate changes in the online recruiting market, our business, financial condition and operating results could be significantly harmed. New Internet services or enhancements that we have offered or may offer in the future may contain design flaws or other defects that could require expensive modifications or result in a loss of client confidence. Any disruption in Internet access or in the Internet generally could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Slower response times or system failures may also result from straining the capacity of our software, hardware or network infrastructure. To the extent that we do not effectively address any capacity constraints or system failures, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be significantly harmed. Trends that could have a critical impact on our success include: •rapidly changing technology in online recruiting; •evolving industry standards relating to online recruiting; •developments and changes relating to the Internet; •evolving government regulations; •competing products and services that offer increased functionality; •changes in employer and job seeker requirements; and •customer privacy protection concerning transactions conducted over the Internet. We rely heavily on our information systems and if our access to this technology is impaired or interrupted, or we fail to further develop our technology, our business could be harmed. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information, including our client and candidate databases. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development, either internally or through independent consultants, of new proprietary software. Our inability to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively, or any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities, for any reason, could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. 13 Concerns relating to privacy and protection of customer and job seeker data could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers and job seekers from using our products and services. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation, which in turn could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Moreover, failure or perceived failure to comply with our policies or applicable requirements related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could result in a loss of customer and job seeker confidence in us, which could adversely affect our business. Laws related to data protection continue to evolve. It is possible that certain jurisdictions may enact laws or regulations that impact our ability to offer our products and services and/or result in reduced traffic or contract terminations in those jurisdictions, which could harm our business. Unauthorized access, phishing schemes and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of customer and job seeker information stored in our systems, and may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing customers and job seekers to refrain from doing business with us. Our markets are highly competitive. The markets for our services are highly competitive. They are characterized by pressures to: •reduce prices; •incorporate new capabilities and technologies; and •accelerate job completion schedules. Furthermore, we face competition from a number of sources. These sources include: •traditional media companies, including newspapers; •Internet portals, search engines and other job-related localized websites; •specialized career and education related online content providers, including blogs and user generated content; and •national and regional recruitment advertising agencies. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have long operating histories, and some may have greater financial resources, management, technological development, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors have more diversified businesses or may be owned by entities engaged in other lines of business allowing them to operate their directly competitive operations at lower margins than our operations. In addition, our ability to maintain our existing clients and attract new clients depends to a large degree on the quality of our services and our reputation among our clients and potential clients. Due to competition, we may experience reduced margins on our products and services, loss of market share or less use of Monster by job seekers and our customers. If we are not able to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a result of these and other factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We have no significant proprietary technology that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering the online advertising market. Existing or future competitors may develop or offer services and 14 products which provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over our services. This could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We are vulnerable to intellectual property infringement claims brought against us by others and we may not have sufficient protection for our own intellectual property. Successful intellectual property infringement claims against us could result in monetary liability or a material disruption in the conduct of our business. We cannot be certain that our products, content and brand names do not or will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We expect that infringement claims in our markets will increase in number. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we were found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of a third party, we could be liable to that party for license fees, royalty payments, profits or damages, and the owner of the intellectual property might be able to prevent us from using the technology or software in the future. If the amounts of these payments were significant or we were prevented from incorporating certain technology or software into our products, our business could be significantly harmed. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. As a result, due to the diversion of management time, the expense required to defend against any claim and the potential liability associated with any lawsuit, any significant litigation could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or maintain our rights to use key technologies of third parties, our business may be harmed. A degree of uncertainty exists concerning the application and enforcement of copyright and trade dress laws to the Internet, and existing laws may not provide us adequate protection for our original content or the appearance of our Internet sites. In addition, because copyright laws do not prohibit independent development of similar content, copyright laws may not provide us with any competitive advantage. We have obtained one patent and applied for other patents with respect to certain of our software systems, methods and related technologies, but our pending applications may not be granted and any patents issued to us may in the future be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted thereunder may not provide us with a competitive advantage. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights could involve significant expense and could be difficult or impossible, particularly given the global nature of the Internet and the fact that the laws of certain other countries may afford us little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. In addition, we rely on certain technology licensed from third parties, and may be required to license additional technology in the future for use in managing our Internet sites and providing related services to users and advertising customers. Our ability to generate fees from Internet commerce may also depend on data encryption and authentication technologies that we may be required to license from third parties. These third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable commercial terms or at all. The inability to enter into and maintain any of these technology licenses could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Computer viruses may cause our systems to incur delays or interruptions. Computer viruses may cause our systems to incur delays or other service interruptions and could damage our reputation which in turn, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our system's continuing and uninterrupted performance is 15 critical to our success. Customers and job seekers may become dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide our services to them, including failures affecting our ability to serve Web page requests without significant delay to the viewer. Sustained or repeated system failures would reduce the attractiveness of our solutions to customers and job seekers and result in reduced traffic or contract terminations, fee rebates and make goods, thereby reducing revenues. Moreover, if a computer virus affecting our system is highly publicized, our reputation could be significantly damaged and our visitor traffic may decrease. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties and unanticipated liabilities. Historically, we have grown in part by making acquisitions. Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets. Our acquisitions can be accompanied by a number of risks, including: •the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of our acquired companies into our operations; •the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; •the difficulty of integrating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; •the impairment of relationships with customers and partners of the acquired companies or our customers and partners as a result of the integration of acquired operations; •the impairment of relationships with employees of the acquired companies or our employees as a result of integration of new management personnel; •the difficulty of integrating the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; •in the case of foreign acquisitions, uncertainty regarding foreign laws and regulations and difficulty integrating operations and systems as a result of cultural, systems and operational differences; and •the impact of known potential liabilities or unknown liabilities associated with the acquired companies. Our failure to be successful in addressing these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. We have had and may face future difficulties managing growth. Historically, our business grew rapidly, both internally and through acquisitions. This expansion resulted in substantial growth in the number of our employees, and put a significant strain on our management and operations. If our business grows rapidly again in the future, we expect it to result in increased responsibility for management personnel, and incremental strain on our operations, and financial and management systems. Our success under such conditions will depend to a significant extent on the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to operate effectively both independently and as a group. If we are not able to manage future growth, our business, financial condition and operating results may be harmed. 16 Our divested businesses have agreed to indemnify us of liabilities that are related to their operations. If one or more of those businesses fails to meet its obligations, our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. On March 31, 2003 we completed the spin-off of Hudson Highland Group, Inc. ("HH Group") to our stockholders and on June 1, 2005 we sold our Directional Marketing business. During 2006, the Company disposed of its global Advertising & Communications business in five separate transactions, to focus our resources on the Monster business. As a result of these divestitures, each business has agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities related to their operations. If, for whatever reason, a claim is made for which we do not receive indemnification, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We face risks relating to our foreign operations. We have a presence in 36 countries around the world. Approximately 29%, 24% and 19%, of our total revenue was earned outside of the United States in the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Such amounts are collected in the local currency. In addition, we generally pay operating expenses in the corresponding local currency. Therefore, we are at risk for exchange rate fluctuations between such local currencies and the United States dollar. We are also subject to taxation in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, transactions between our foreign subsidiaries and us may be subject to United States and foreign withholding taxes. Applicable tax rates in foreign jurisdictions differ from those of the United States, and change periodically. The extent, if any, to which we will receive credit in the United States for taxes we pay in foreign jurisdictions will depend upon the application of limitations set forth in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as well as the provisions of any tax treaties that may exist between the United States and such foreign jurisdictions. Our current or future international operations might not succeed for a number of reasons including: •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •competition from local recruiting services; •operational issues such as longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; •seasonal reductions in business activity; •language and cultural differences; •legal uncertainties inherent in transnational operations such as export and import regulations, tariffs and other trade barriers; •taxation issues; •changes in trading policies and regulatory requirements; •issues relating to uncertainties of laws and enforcement relating to the regulation and protection of intellectual property; and •general political and economic trends. Also, if we are forced to discontinue any of our international operations, we could incur material costs to close down such operations. We depend on our key management personnel. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management. The loss of the services of our executive officers could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, if one or more key employees join a competitor or form a competing 17 company, the resulting loss of existing or potential clients could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We are influenced by a principal stockholder. Andrew J. McKelvey, our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns all of our outstanding Class B common stock and a large number of shares of our common stock, which, together with his Class B common stock ownership, represents approximately 32% of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock as of December 31, 2006. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes. As a result of such voting rights, Mr. McKelvey has significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors and certain mergers or other business combinations. A majority of outstanding shares of Class B common stock must approve any proposal to amend the Company's Certificate of Incorporation that would adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the shares of Class B common stock. Since Mr. McKelvey beneficially owns all of our outstanding Class B common stock, he will determine the outcome of such proposals. However, in the event that Mr. McKelvey sells or assigns his beneficial ownership of any shares of Class B common stock, such shares will be converted into shares of common stock and such shares will have only one vote per share. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. This may adversely impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets were $640.7 million. Effects of anti-takeover provisions could inhibit the acquisition of Monster Worldwide by others. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could, together or separately: •discourage potential acquisition proposals; •delay or prevent a change in control; and •limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In particular, our board of directors may authorize the issuance of up to 800,000 shares of preferred stock with rights and privileges that might be senior to our common stock, without the consent of the holders of the common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide, among other things, for advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. There is volatility in our stock price. The market for our common stock has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Factors such as announcements of variations in our quarterly financial results and fluctuations in revenue could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. In 18 addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, some of whom have been granted equity compensation. The market price of our common stock can be influenced by stockholders' expectations about the ability of our business to grow and to achieve certain profitability targets. If our financial performance in a particular quarter does not meet the expectations of our stockholders, it may adversely affect their views concerning our growth potential and future financial performance. In addition, if the securities analysts who regularly follow our common stock lower their ratings of our common stock, the market price of our common stock is likely to drop significantly. The market price of our common stock may react negatively to further updates and announcements regarding the government investigations and litigation proceedings related to our historical stock option grant practices. We face risks associated with government regulation. The application of existing laws and regulations to our web sites, particularly Monster, relating to issues such as user privacy, security of data, defamation, advertising, taxation, promotions, content regulation, and intellectual property ownership and infringement can be unclear. In addition, we will also be subject to new laws and regulations directly applicable to our activities. Any existing or new legislation applicable to us could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations, and dampen growth in Internet usage. The federal CAN-SPAM Act and state anti-spam laws impose certain requirements on the use of e-mail. The implications of these laws have not been fully tested. Portions of our business rely on e-mail to communicate with consumers on our behalf and for our clients. We may face risk if our use of e-mail is found to violate the federal law or applicable state law. We post our privacy policy and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data on our websites. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policy or other privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings which could potentially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this regard, there are a large number of legislative proposals before the United States Congress and various state legislative bodies regarding privacy issues related to our business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted, and certain proposals, if adopted, could significantly harm our business through a decrease in user registrations and revenues. This could be caused by, among other possible provisions, the required use of disclaimers or other requirements before users can utilize our services. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate its transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws or such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments (or developments stemming from enactment or modification of other laws) may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Other legal proceedings may significantly harm our business. From time to time, we may become involved in other litigation or other proceedings in the ordinary course of business. It is possible that such litigation or proceedings may significantly harm our future results of operations or financial condition due to expenses we may incur to defend ourselves or the ramifications of an adverse decision. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 