Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The discussion below highlights some of the risks that may affect future operating results. We note that, as a smaller reporting company, we are not required to provide this Item 1A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, we undertake no duty to update these risk factors on a going-forward basis. Information provided by us from time to time, including statements in this Form 10-K that are not historical facts, consists of so-called "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties, made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In particular, statements contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations that are not historical facts (including, but not limited to, statements concerning: our plans and objectives; expectations for sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses; developments relating to our product and service offerings, markets and acquisitions; anticipated trends in our business; our strategic alliances; changes in the regulatory environment; our expected liquidity and capital resources; and our critical accounting policies) may constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are neither promises nor guarantees, but are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause these kinds of differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below and the other risks that may be discussed from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Given the nature of our business, we may not be able to obtain sufficient or attractive financing, should that become necessary. We expect that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments will meet our normal working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. We may, however, need to raise additional funding at that time or earlier if we decide to undertake more rapid expansion, including acquisitions of complementary products or technologies, or if we increase our marketing, sales and/or research and development efforts in order to respond to competitive pressures. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. We may obtain additional financing by issuing shares of our common stock or other equity securities, which could dilute our existing stockholders. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products or respond appropriately to competitive pressures, which would seriously harm our business. We have experienced operating losses and our future operating results are uncertain and difficult to predict. We had an operating loss in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our level of revenue or become profitable again in the future, as our operating history makes the accurate prediction of future operating results difficult or impossible. If we experience any pricing pressures and fail to achieve broader market acceptance of our products and there is a decline in the growth rate of the overall United States economy or our industry in particular, we may experience continuing operating losses. Our AccuRoute product represented 82% and 59% of software license revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our ability to improve our operating results will depend upon, among other things, our ability to increase sales of our AccuRoute, Genifax and Healthcare Suite products to new customers, as well as our ability to increase product penetration into existing customers. In addition, we plan to continue investing significantly in the expansion of our AccuRoute product into new vertical markets, including the healthcare and financial services vertical markets, in advance of significant related revenue from those markets. We cannot predict the timing or level of revenue resulting from these investments. Future operating results will depend on many other factors, including, without limitation, the degree and rate of growth of the markets in which we compete; the level of product and price competition; our ability to establish strategic relationships and 12 develop and market new and enhanced products; our ability to control costs; our ability to expand our direct and indirect distribution channel sales both domestically and internationally; our ability to integrate our products and cross-sell our solutions across vertical markets; and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. As a result, it is possible that, in the future, our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. Our products are concentrated in the electronic document exchange market and we are dependent on increased sales of our AccuRoute, Healthcare Suite and Genifax products. To date, much of our revenue has been attributable to licenses of our facsimile-based and document and information handling enterprise solutions and related products and services. We expect these products and related services to continue to account for significant amounts of our future revenue. However, over the past few years, the amount of revenue attributable to licenses of these products has declined and there can be no assurances that this decline will not continue. We introduced our secure business-to-business electronic document exchange products, Genidocs and Genifax, to the market in the fourth quarter of 2000. Further, we introduced the initial version of our proprietary document and routing software, AccuRoute, in 2004 and the current version of that product in the third quarter of 2007. We expect AccuRoute to account for an increasing portion of future revenue. However, there can be no assurances that our AccuRoute product will continue to be financially successful. Factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for this product, such as competition or technological change, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our products are concentrated in the electronic document exchange market and, therefore, any factors affecting demand for these types of solutions could cause our operating results to decline. Investors must evaluate our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies dependent upon operating revenue from a new product line in an emerging and rapidly evolving market. The markets for our products are subject to rapid technological change and we may not be able to keep pace with evolving industry standards or end-user requirements. The markets for our products are relatively new and are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in end-user requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments and respond to evolving end-user requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products or product enhancements on a timely basis, or that new products or product enhancements delivered by us, such as our AccuRoute, Healthcare Suite and Genifax products, will achieve market acceptance. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. From time to time, we and our competitors may announce new products, capabilities, or technologies that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing product offerings. There can be no assurance that announcements of new product offerings by us or our competitors will not cause customers to defer or forego the licensing of our existing or planned products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the revenue generated by sales of our AccuRoute product and would be negatively impacted if market interest—whether in the legal, financial services or healthcare vertical market—were to decline or fail to grow as expected. We currently derive a significant portion of our revenue from licenses of our AccuRoute product and related services. Sales of AccuRoute were higher in 2007 than they were in 2006. Continued market acceptance of our AccuRoute product is critical to our future success. As a result, any decline in demand for or failure to maintain broad market acceptance of our AccuRoute product as a result of competition, technological change, or other factors would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future financial performance 13 will depend in large part on new and enhanced versions of our AccuRoute product. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in marketing products in the healthcare vertical market or our AccuRoute product in the legal vertical market, or that our marketing efforts for AccuRoute in the financial services and healthcare vertical markets will be successful. Further, there can be no assurance that any new or enhanced versions of our AccuRoute product will be successful. Were we to suffer an unexpectedly large decline in our legacy fax business, our financial condition and results of operations would be significantly impaired. We currently derive a significant though declining portion of our revenue from licenses of our Genifax product, related services and resale of related hardware. However, sales of Genifax, our multi-tiered client/server software for automating and integrating fax communications throughout an enterprise, were lower in 2007 than they were in 2006. Though we expect our sales of our legacy fax products to continue to decline in 2008, an unexpectedly large decline in the market acceptance of our Genifax product would have a negative impact on our future success. As a result, any unexpectedly large decline in demand for or failure to maintain expected market acceptance of our Genifax product line as a result of competition, technological change, or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurances that we will continue to be successful in marketing our Genifax product or any new or enhanced versions of the Genifax product at expected levels. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in developing products for new or enhanced operating systems such as Microsoft's Windows 2000, Windows 2003, Windows XP and Windows Vista, or that these systems will not obviate the need for our products. If any new or enhanced operating system gains widespread use and we fail to develop and provide our products for this operating system on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not successfully complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions we do make, which could impair our ability to compete and could harm our operating results. We have (in the case of our recent acquisition of BlueChip) and may continue to augment our internal growth with acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies that could complement or expand our business. Certain of these businesses may be only marginally profitable or even unprofitable. In order to achieve anticipated benefits from these acquisitions, we will have to integrate successfully the acquired businesses with our existing operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in this regard. We have limited experience in integrating acquired companies into our operations, in expanding the scope of operations of acquired businesses, in managing geographically dispersed operations and in operating internationally. In the past, we have incurred one-time costs and expenses in connection with acquisitions and it is likely that we could incur similar one-time costs and expenses in connection with future acquisitions. In addition, we might be required to amortize significant intangible assets in connection with future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our operating results. Further, attractive acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including competition among prospective buyers and the possible need to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete future acquisitions. In order to finance potential future acquisitions, we may need to raise additional funds either through public or private financings, including bank borrowings. Any financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Finally, we may also issue shares of our common stock to acquire attractive businesses, which may dilute our existing stockholders. 14 Our common stock was delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, which made our stock significantly less liquid and may affect its value and could significantly impair our ability to raise capital. Prior to August 2, 2007, our common stock was listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market ("Nasdaq"). Effective August 2, 2007, our common stock was delisted from Nasdaq as a result of our failure to comply with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(2)(B), which requires issuers on Nasdaq to have (i) a minimum of $2,500,000 in stockholders' equity; (ii) $35,000,000 market value of listed securities; or (iii) $500,000 of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. Our common stock is currently being traded over-the-counter and quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board ("OTCBB") and the Pink Sheets electronic quotation services. The trading of our common stock over-the-counter (as opposed to a national securities exchange) may reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our shareholders. In addition, the trading of our common stock over-the-counter may materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets and the limited liquidity and potentially reduced price of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources or on terms acceptable to us. The markets in which we sell our products are characterized by intense and growing competition and our future success is dependent on our ability to distinguish our products from those of our competitors and reach our target customers. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the distributed document capture and delivery market depends upon a number of factors both within and beyond our control, including product performance; reliability and features; ease of use; product scalability; quality of support services; price versus performance; timeliness of enhancements and new product releases by us and our competitors. We expect this market to mature and become increasingly competitive with success resulting from the formation of critical partnerships and alliances with both selected hardware and software partners. The market for client/server computer-based facsimile solutions is also competitive and is more established and mature than the markets in which our AccuRoute and Healthcare Suite products compete. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the fax market depends upon a number of factors both within and beyond our control, including product performance; reliability and features; ease of use; product scalability; quality of support services; price versus performance; timeliness of enhancements and new product releases by us and our competitors. Given these factors, we believe that in order to be successful, we must continue our focus on delivering a core, modular and scalable product on one of the most prolific system platforms, Microsoft Windows 2000, Windows 2003, Windows XP and/or Windows Vista, with features that appeal to the broadest segment of the electronic document exchange market, which includes fax and all of the other document control and management features that we offer. In addition, providers of operating systems or business software applications may bundle competitive facsimile solutions as part of their broader product offerings. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, as well as greater name recognition and market acceptance of their products and technologies than we do. In addition, there are relatively low barriers to entry in the markets in which we operate and intend to operate and new competition may arise from expansion by established companies, new emerging companies, or resellers of our products. There can be no assurance that our current or potential competitors will not develop products comparable or superior—in terms of price and performance and features—to those we have developed. Further, our competitors may adapt more quickly than we do to new or emerging technologies and changes in market opportunities or customer requirements, establish alliances with industry leaders, market their products more broadly or take advantage of acquisition opportunities more readily than we can or do. In addition, no assurance can be given that we will not be required to make substantial additional investments in connection with our research, development, engineering, marketing, sales and customer service efforts in order to meet any competitive threat, or that those required investments will 15 not have a material adverse effect on our operating margins. Changes in governing laws and regulations may also affect our ability to remain competitive. Increased competition may result in reduction in our market share, pressure for price reductions and related reductions in our gross margins, any of which could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our financial and business goals. There can be no assurance that, in the future, we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our business is subject to seasonality and fluctuations on a quarterly and annual basis due to the long sales cycle for our products and numerous other factors and, therefore, our results may vary from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Causes of these fluctuations have included and may include, among others: the demand for our products and services; the size and timing of orders; the number, timing and significance of new product announcements by us and our competitors; our ability to develop, introduce, market and ship new and enhanced versions of our current and planned products on a timely basis; the level of product and price competition; changes in operating expenses; changes in average selling prices and mix of our products; changes in our sales incentive strategy; the mix of direct and indirect sales; and general economic factors, including factors affecting the overall U.S. economy and the demand for enterprise information technology solutions. In addition, the sale of our products can involve delays because customers may implement the products they purchase from us on a large scale, requiring them first to establish certain minimum hardware capabilities. Moreover, we have historically experienced some seasonal fluctuations in the sales of our products, due to the fact that many companies make information technology purchases either early or late in their fiscal years (when they either have a replenished annual budget or leftover money in the budget) and more frequently scheduled vacations of key personnel at customers during the summer months (particularly in Europe). Our products therefore often have a lengthy sales cycle while potential customers evaluate and receive approvals for the purchase of our products. During these sales cycles, we may expend substantial funds and management efforts, yet receive no revenue. It is difficult to predict accurately the sales cycle of any large order. If one or more large orders fail to close as forecasted in a fiscal quarter, our revenue and operating results for that quarter could be materially adversely affected. Any one or more of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The potential occurrence of any one or more of these factors makes the prediction of revenue and results of operations on a quarterly basis difficult and performance forecasts derived from these predictions unreliable. In addition, we may invest in research and development and marketing expenses in order to promote further our products within current or new vertical markets. Because we must make these investments in advance of related revenue, any failure of our products to achieve planned levels of acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations on a quarter-to-quarter basis and overall. In general, it is difficult for us to forecast revenue because the market for routing and distribution software and enterprise client/server facsimile solutions software is evolving rapidly and our sales cycle—from the customer's initial evaluation through its purchase of licenses and related support services—varies substantially from customer to customer. License fee revenue in any quarter depends on orders received and shipped in that quarter, with a significant percentage of orders in any quarter arriving in the last weeks of the quarter. License fee revenue from quarter-to-quarter is difficult to forecast, as no significant order backlog typically exists at the end of any quarter because our products are typically shipped upon receipt of customers' orders. A substantial portion of our operating expense is related to personnel, facilities, equipment and marketing programs. The level of spending for these expenses cannot be adjusted quickly and is therefore fixed in the short term. Our expense levels for personnel, facilities, equipment and marketing programs are based, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue on a quarterly basis. If 16 actual revenue levels on a quarterly basis are below our expectations, our results of operations are likely to be adversely affected by a similar amount because a relatively small amount of our expense varies with our revenue in the short term. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is likely that in some future periods our results of operations will be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. In addition to direct sales, we utilize indirect sales and distribution channels and strategic alliances with compatible partners in order to broaden sales of our products. Any failure on our part to form and leverage relationships with these indirect sales and distribution channel partners could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. We market our products and services directly through telesales and prospect visits and indirectly through marketing channels such as value added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators, distributors and strategic business partners. Although we have historically focused our efforts on marketing through our direct sales force, we continue to utilize resources to develop and expand our indirect marketing channels. There can be no assurances that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified VARs, systems integrators, distributors and/or strategic business partners, or that those third parties will successfully market our products. In addition, there can be no assurances that our resellers and strategic business partners will not develop, acquire, or market computer-based electronic document exchange, document routing and distribution, document exchange and facsimile products that are competitive with our products. The distributor agreements governing our relationships with third party distribution chain partners generally do not require these parties to purchase minimum volumes from us. Further, these relationships generally may be terminated by either party. There can be no assurance that any VAR, systems integrator, or distributor will continue to represent and sell our products. We continue to focus on the marketing and sale of our products through leading hardware, computer system and software vendors, such as HP, Xerox, Canon and Ricoh. The development of these relationships requires us to make significant executive, marketing and product development investments in advance of establishing the relationship and making our products available through these partners. In addition, these strategic partners have broad product portfolios and industry alliances. There can be no assurance that we will successfully market and sell our products through these strategic channels. The inability to retain our VARs, systems integrators, distributors, or strategic business partners, or to motivate these parties to resell our products, or the development or marketing by VARs, systems integrators, distributors, or strategic business partners of competitive offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Selling through indirect channels may limit our contacts with our customers, thereby hindering our ability to accurately forecast sales, evaluate customer satisfaction and recognize emerging customer requirements. Our strategy of marketing our products directly to end-users and indirectly through VARs, systems integrators and distributors may result in distribution channel conflicts. Our direct sales efforts may compete with those of our indirect channels and, to the extent different resellers target the same customers, resellers may also come into conflict with each other. As we strive to expand our indirect distribution channels, there can be no assurance that emerging channel conflicts will not materially adversely affect our relationships with existing VARs, systems integrators, or distributors or adversely affect our ability to attract new VARs, systems integrators and distributors. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to expand our sales internationally, which will subject us to regulatory, exchange rate and other risks that might hinder our ability to meet our targets for international sales and impair our results of operation. An element of our strategy is to increase our international sales. We expect to face competition from document and information handling solutions 17 and local facsimile product providers in the foreign countries in which we attempt to sell our products. To maintain and grow our international sales, we need to realize direct sales as well as recruit and retain additional international resellers and distributors. There can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain international sales of our products or that our international distribution channels will be able to market, adequately service and support our products. International operations generally are subject to certain risks, including dependence on independent resellers, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, compliance with foreign regulatory and market requirements, variability of foreign economic conditions and changing restrictions imposed by United States export laws. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, costs of localizing products for foreign countries, lack of acceptance of localized products in foreign countries, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, difficulties in managing international operations, difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. We currently have a sales office in the United Kingdom. Our non-United States presence subjects us to certain additional risks including difficulties in staffing and managing these foreign operations and potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings. There can be no assurances that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations. To date, a majority of our sales have been made in United States dollars and we have not engaged in any hedging transactions through the purchase of derivative securities or otherwise. Our United Kingdom subsidiary transacts business primarily in its local currency. We translate our United Kingdom subsidiary's operating results into U.S. dollars and consolidate them with our domestic results for reporting purposes. As we make sales to customers in a variety of countries, significant currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material impact on our results of operations. Our future success depends on our ability to manage the growth and expansion of our business. We may expand our operations, as we anticipate that expansion may be required in order to address potential market opportunities. We expect to continue to invest in sales and marketing, as well as research and development, with the goal of growing our market share, vertical market penetration and overall revenue. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete or manage this expansion successfully or that this expansion will generate sufficient revenue to cover our corresponding expenses. In addition, we will need to continue to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Our inability to expand operations and manage growth effectively, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are in the process of identifying and analyzing strategic, financial and operating alternatives and any such alternatives may not lead to the achievement of desired results. In light of our current and historical operating results and the continuing challenges we face and in order to maximize shareholder value, we are in an ongoing process of examining our operations as well as our strategic and financial alternatives. The strategic and financial options we may consider could include a variety of different business arrangements including, but not limited to: combinations with or a sale to another entity; equity or debt financings; strategic partnerships and joint ventures; the sale or spin off of certain assets; the acquisition of complementary businesses, technologies, or product lines; investments in new businesses; reorganization, recapitalization, or distribution alternatives; or other alternatives. Changes, if any, implemented as a result of the strategic and financial alternatives review could affect the basic nature of our Company. The examination of these strategic and financial alternatives requires significant time and attention and commitments from our management team and could result in additional expense. Any strategic and financial options we identify may not be available to us or ultimately consummated. Any strategic or financial decision will involve risks and uncertainties and present challenges in implementation and integration. As a result, any such business arrangement may 18 not lead to increased shareholder value. In addition, any strategic or financial decision could lead to non-recurring or other charges or be dilutive to our current shareholders. We may fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, be unable to complete our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner, or our independent registered public accounting firm may not attest to our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively detect and prevent fraud. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, under currently published SEC rules, beginning with our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we are now required to perform an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and publicly disclose the assessment in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Attestation by our auditor on our internal control over financial reporting will be required for the year ended December 31, 2009. In the future, because our limited financial and managerial resources may be focused on the pursuit of strategic and financial alternatives and company operations, we may be unable to complete our evaluation, enhancement and assessment of internal control over financial reporting, comply with all of our reporting obligations and successfully complete the procedures and certification requirements of Section 404 by the time that we are required to file our Annual Report. In such event, we may not then be current in our SEC filings. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal control structure, or fail to address any deficiencies that may be identified by our auditors, we may not be able to conclude, on an ongoing basis, that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. There remains risk that the processes and procedures on which we currently rely will fail to be sufficiently effective. In addition, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues have been detected. Moreover, any failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. In light of internal control and other public company requirements, as well as public company costs, we may consider taking action to deregister our common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We may consider this alternative in order to enhance our operating resources by reducing public company costs, such as the costs of maintaining internal controls and procedures and complying with the provisions of Section 404. If we deregister our common stock, there may be an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and there will likely be less information about us available to shareholders than is currently contained in the periodic reports that we file pursuant to the Exchange Act. The deregistration of our common stock would result in our common stock no longer being eligible for quotation on the OTCBB, although we expect our common stock would continue to be traded over the counter and quoted on the Pink Sheets quotation service. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights. To succeed, we must adequately protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws, nondisclosure and other agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary technology, but those measures may be insufficient. Our competitors may challenge or circumvent the claims in our patents. Our current patents, or any future patents, may never provide us with any competitive advantages. Other measures that we take to protect our proprietary technology may not prevent or deter misappropriation of our technology or the development of technologies with similar characteristics. Moreover, our use of open systems architecture in the design of our products may make it easier for competitors to misappropriate or replicate our designs and developments. Other companies may claim that we infringe their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or be prevented from selling our products. Our success depends on 19 our ability to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Product development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patents and pending patent applications with regard to similar technologies. Historically, competitors in our industry have filed numerous allegations of patent infringement, resulting in considerable litigation. Any litigation, regardless of our success, would probably be costly and require significant time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. Litigation could also force us to: •stop or delay selling or using products that use the challenged intellectual property; •pay damages for infringement; •obtain licenses, which may be unavailable on acceptable terms; or •redesign products or services that use the infringing technology. Our reliance on a sole hardware supplier could adversely impact our business. We currently purchase hardware products for sale to our customers from a single third-party supplier. We do not have a long-term, fixed-price or minimum volume contract with this supplier. Instead, we order hardware equipment through purchase orders from time to time. We do not carry significant inventories of these hardware products and do not have a guaranteed supply arrangement with this supplier. In 2007 and 2006, our sole supplier of hardware products was acquired by a third-party. To date, this change of ownership has not negatively impacted our ability to purchase hardware products from this supplier or the terms under which we make those purchases. Were this supplier to raise its prices or refocus its business, we might be negatively impacted as we would have to develop a new supply relationship for these products. Although we believe that we could secure these hardware products from alternative suppliers, in the event of a disruption of supply from this sole supplier, we might not be able to develop an alternative source in a timely manner or at favorable prices. Even if we were able to purchase these hardware components from alternative sources, we would have little control over the cost of these products. Were we forced to pay significantly higher prices for these hardware products, it might limit the mark-up that we can reasonably charge our customers. Were we unable to provide this hardware to our customers, forcing our customers to buy this hardware directly from third parties, or were we forced to decrease the size of our mark-up, our hardware and total revenue would be negatively impacted. We are dependent on our key personnel and any inability to retain or hire key personnel could impact our business and results of operations. Our future performance depends, in significant part, upon the continued service of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel, most of whom are not bound by employment agreements or noncompetition agreements. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Competition for highly qualified personnel is intense and we have historically experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified technical personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or continue to hire key technical, sales and managerial personnel in the future. 