D. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities should be considered highly speculative and involves a high degree of financial risk due to the nature of our activities and the current status of our operations. A prospective investor should carefully consider the risks summarized below and all other information contained in this Annual Report before making an investment decision relating to our shares. Some statements in this Annual Report (including some of the following risk factors) are forward-looking statements. Please refer to the discussion of forward-looking statements in the introduction to this Annual Report. Any one or more of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the value of any investment in our Company and the business, financial position or operating results of our Company and should be taken into account in assessing our activities. The risks noted below do not necessarily comprise all those faced by us. Risks Relating to the Company Title to Properties To the knowledge of the Company, none of its property interests have been surveyed to establish boundaries. There can be no assurance that any governmental authority in the PRC could not significantly alter the conditions of or revoke the applicable exploration or mining authorizations held by the Company or that the Company's interest in such properties will not be challenged or impugned by third parties or governmental authorities. In addition, there can be no assurance that the properties or other assets in which the Company has an interest are not subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers, pledges, mortgages or claims and title may be affected by undetected defects as it is difficult to verify that no agreements, transfers, claims, mortgages, pledges or other encumbrances exist given the state of the legal and administrative systems in the PRC. China Political and Economic Considerations The business operations of the Company will be located in, and the revenues of the Company derived from activities in the PRC. Likewise, the Company's operations in the PRC are currently conducted through and with the assistance of Minco China, a WFOE. Accordingly, the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company could be significantly and adversely affected by economic, political and social changes in the PRC. The economy of the PRC has traditionally been a planned economy, subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the state, which set national economic development goals. Since 1978, the PRC has been moving the economy from a planned economy to a more open, market-oriented system. The economic development of the PRC is following a model of market economy under socialism. Under this direction, it is expected that the PRC will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and that business development in the PRC will follow market forces and the rules of market economics. However, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. In addition, there is no guarantee that a major turnover of senior political decision makers will not occur, or that the existing economic policy of the PRC will not be changed. A change in policies by the PRC could adversely affect the Company's interests in China by changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof, confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supplies, or the expropriation of private enterprises. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of companies engaged in mineral resource exploration and development, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on the Company and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. Companies with a foreign ownership component operating in the PRC may be required to work within a framework which is different to that imposed on domestic Chinese companies. The Chinese government is opening up opportunities for foreign investment in mining projects and this process is expected to continue. However, if the Chinese government should reverse this trend and impose greater restrictions on foreign companies, the Company's business and future earnings could be negatively affected. 8 Peoples Republic of China Legal System and Enforcement Most of the material agreements to which the Company or its affiliates are party or will be party in the future with respect to mining assets in the PRC are expected to be governed by Chinese law and some may be with Chinese governmental entities. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protection available to the Company and its shareholders. The outcome of any litigation may be more uncertain than usual because: (i) the experience of the PRC judiciary is relatively limited, and (ii) the interpretation of PRC laws may be subject to policy changes reflecting domestic political changes. The laws that do exist are relatively recent and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the available legal protections. Even where adequate law exists in the PRC, it may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such law or to obtain enforcement of judgments by a court of another jurisdiction. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under such agreements could have a material adverse impact on the Company. Many tax rules are not published in the PRC, and those that are published can be ambiguous and contradictory, leaving a considerable amount of discretion to local tax authorities. The PRC currently offers tax and other preferential incentives to encourage foreign investment. However, the tax regime of the PRC is undergoing review and there is no assurance that such tax and other incentives will continue to be available. There is also no guarantee that the pursuit of economic reforms by the State will be consistent or effective and as a result, changes in the rate or method of taxation, reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions, and changes in state policies affecting the mining industry may have a negative effect on its operating results and financial condition. Government Regulation of Mineral Resources and Ownership Ownership of land in China remains with the States, and the State, at the national, regional and local levels, is extensively involved in the regulation of exploration and mining activities. Transfers and issuances of exploration and mining rights are also subject to governmental approval. Failure or delays in obtaining necessary approvals could have a materially adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Nearly all mining projects in the PRC require government approval. There can be no certainty that any such approvals will be granted (directly or indirectly) to the Company in a timely manner, or at all. Exploration and Development is a Speculative Business Resource exploration and development is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but also from finding mineral deposits that, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by the Company may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond the control of the Company and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, the availability of mining equipment, and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection, the combination of which factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return of investment capital. The long-term profitability of the Company's operations will in part be directly related to the costs and success of its exploration programs, which may be affected by a number of factors. Substantial expenditures are required to establish reserves through drilling and to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. If our exploration costs are greater than anticipated, we will have fewer funds for our exploration activities and for our general and administrative expenses, which in turn will adversely affect our financial condition and ability to pursue our exploration programs. Although substantial benefits may be derived from the discovery of a major mineralized deposit, no assurance can be given that minerals will be discovered in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations that commercially viable mineral deposits exist on our properties or that funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. Future Financing The Company currently has limited financial resources and there is no assurance that additional funding will be available to it for further exploration and development of its projects. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be favourable. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of its projects with the possible loss of such properties. 9 Joint Venture Agreement There is no guarantee that Minco Gold and its other joint venture partners will be able to fund the Changkeng joint venture. Mingzhong, the entity that holds the Changkeng Permit, is owned in part by certain state-owned entities which require government approvals before they are able to increase their investment in Mingzhong. It is unclear when these approvals will be forthcoming, if at all. Industry Specific Risks The exploration, development, and production of minerals are capital-intensive businesses, subject to the normal risks and capital expenditure requirements associated with mining operations, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations that we undertake will be subject to hazardous risks incidental to exploration and test mining, including, but not limited to work stoppages, date to property and possible environmental damage. Liabilities resulting from such events may result in us being forced to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business prospects. Limited Experience with Development-Stage Mining Operations The Company has limited experience in placing resource properties into production, and its ability to do so will be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or entering into agreements with other major resource companies that can provide such expertise. There can be no assurance that the Company will have available to it the necessary expertise if the Company places its resource properties into production. Factors Beyond Company's Control Discovery, location and development of mineral deposits depend upon a number of factors, not the least of which is the technical skill of the exploration personnel involved. The exploration and development of mineral properties and the marketability of any minerals contained in such properties will also be affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Company. These factors include government regulation, high levels of volatility in market prices, availability of markets, availability of adequate transportation and refining facilities and the imposition of new, or amendments to existing, taxes and royalties. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted. Potential Conflicts of Interest Certain members of the Company's board and officers of the Company also serve as officers or directors of other companies involved in natural resource exploration and development. Consequently, there exists the possibility that those directors and officers may be in a position of conflict. In particular, Ken Z. Cai is a director of and serves in management in each of the Company, Minco Silver and Minco Base Metals. In addition, Ellen Wei serves as Interim Chief Financial Officer and Controller and Jennifer Trevitt serves as Corporate Secretary, respectively, of the Company, Minco Silver and Minco Base Metals. Any decision made by such directors and officers will be made in accordance with their duties and obligations to deal fairly and in good faith with the Company and such other companies. In addition, such directors and officers will declare, and refrain from voting on any matter in which such directors or officers may have a conflict of interest. Nevertheless, there remains the possibility that the best interests of the Company will not be served because its directors and officers have other commitments. Matters between the Company and Minco Silver which put any of the directors or officers of the Company in a position of conflict are approved by the audit committee of the board of directors which is comprised of solely independent directors. In addition to the potential conflicts described above, some of the directors of the Company are also directors or officers of other reporting and in non-reporting issuers who are engaged in other industry sectors. Accordingly, conflicts of interest may arise which could influence the decisions or actions of directors or officers acting on behalf of the Company. Scope of Business In China companies are granted a business license which specifies the scope of activities that they are permitted to undertake. Although Minco China has taken steps to ensure that all of its business activities are within the scope of its business license, there is no assurance that the relevant Chinese authorities will agree with such assessment. If Minco China is determined to have exceeded the scope of its business license it could be subject to penalties or other sanctions. 10 Uninsured Risks The Company's mining activities are subject to the risks normally inherent in mineral exploration, including, but not limited to, environmental hazards, industrial accidents, flooding, periodic or seasonal interruptions due to climate and hazardous weather conditions, and unusual or unexpected formations. Such risks could result in damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delay in mining and possible legal liability. The Company may become subject to liability for pollution and other hazards against which it cannot insure or against which it may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or other reasons. The payment for such liabilities would reduce the funds available for exploration and mining activities and may have a material impact on the Company's financial position. Currency Exchange Rates The Company maintains its accounts Canadian dollars and RMB denominations. Given that most of Minco Gold's expenditures are currently and are anticipated to be incurred in RMB, Minco Gold is subject to foreign currency fluctuations which may affect its financial position and operating results. The Company does not currently have a formal hedging program to mitigate foreign currency exchange risks. Repatriation of Capital Located in China The Company may face delays repatriating funds held in China if at any time the Company needs additional resources to enable it to undertake projects elsewhere in the world. There are certain restrictions on the repatriation of funds held in China as more particularly described below. Under Chinese law, repatriation of funds in China falls under several categories: (1) profit repatriation, (2) capital repatriation, (3) liquidation, and (4) overseas loan repayment. The major requirements for each of the repatriation methods is as follows: 1. Profit repatriation – A WFOE may repatriate its after-tax profits out of China with few restrictions. Minco China is classified as a WFOE. Profit repatriation can only be undertaken once a year. 2. Capital repatriation – Under Chinese law, capital repatriation can only be made under the following circumstances: (a) Share/Equity Interest Sale – In the event that a foreign investor, as an assignor, intends to sell its equity interest in the WFOE to any other foreign or domestic entities/individuals, as an assignee, the approval from the original approving authority, such as the local Department of Commerce ("DOC") is required. Such governmental approval for an equity sale is not difficult to obtain in normal circumstances and it would normally take one to two months after all of the required documents have been submitted, subject to local practice. Once the governmental approval is obtained, the assignee is obliged to apply to the local State Administration for Foreign Exchange ("SAFE"), for the approval of mailing the payment of the transfer price to the assignor, which can normally be done within 20 business days after all of the required documents have been submitted. (b) Capital Decrease – Generally, a WFOE must not decrease its registered capital during its operating term, however, if its registered capital needs to be decreased due to the change of the total investment amount or operation scale or for other reasons, such decrease could be done after approval from the original approval authority has been obtained. The procedures for capital decrease are as follows: 11 (i) The WFOE would apply to the local DOC for a preliminary approval of a capital decrease; (ii) After receiving the preliminary reply, the WFOE would notify all of its creditors in writing for such capital decrease and the WFOE would publically disclose such capital decrease in provincial newspapers at least three times; (iii) The creditors may require the WFOE to pay off all debts or provide corresponding guarantees to pay any outstanding debts; (iv) After the WFOE has made at least three public notices in provincial newspapers, it would apply to the local DOC for formal approval of the capital decrease; (v) Once the DOC has approved the decrease of the registered capital, the WFOE would conduct the registration change at the local Administration for Industry and Commerce ("AIC"); and (vi) Upon completion of the above procedures, if the then contributed capital of the WFOE exceeds the registered capital after the decrease, the WFOE would apply for the capital repatriation approval of the decreased capital to its investor(s) at the local SAFE. Once approval is received, the bank can remit the exceeded capital. The above process takes around six months to complete. 3. Liquidation – The investor may also voluntarily liquidate the WFOE in accordance with relevant Chinese law and the articles of association of the WFOE. The procedures for the liquidation of a foreign investment are as follows: (a) A resolution to liquidate the WFOE is adopted; (b) The WFOE applies to the local DOC for approval of the liquidation; (c) The WFOE sets up a liquidation committee to conduct the liquidation; (d) The notices to creditors and the public announcements about the liquidation must be made; (e) The liquidation committee would handle the sale of the assets of the WFOE and the distribution of the liquidation proceeds and submit a distribution report to the local DOC; and (f) The deregistration of the WFOE must be conducted with the local AIC and local tax, customs, foreign exchange and other authorities. (g) Upon completion of the above procedures, the investor would apply to the local SAFE for repatriation of the liquidated proceeds. Once approval is received, the bank can remit the liquidated proceeds. The above process takes approximately six months to complete. 4. Overseas Loan Repayment - Under Chinese law, a WFOE may borrow overseas loans from its investors or other overseas companies or financial institutions, provided that the overseas loan amount shall not exceed the balance between the total investment amount and the registered capital of the WFOE. The procedures for registration and repayment of such overseas loans are as follows: 12 (a) The WFOE would register the overseas loan with the local SAFE and obtain loan registration certificates issued by the local SAFE; (b) After registration, the WFOE would open a special foreign exchange cash account with domestic banks to receive the overseas loan; (c) When the WFOE repays the overseas loan, it would apply to the local SAFE for the repayment approval; and (d) Upon the issuance of the repayment approval of the local SAFE, the WFOE would submit the overseas loan registration certificate and the repayment approval issued by the local SAFE to the banks and the banks would conduct payment operations through the WFOE's special foreign exchange cash account for the overseas loan or the special foreign exchange cash account for the overseas loan repayment. Competition The precious metal minerals exploration industry and mining business are intensely competitive. The Company competes with numerous other companies and individuals in the search for and the acquisition of attractive precious metal mining properties. Many of these competitors have substantially greater technical and financial resources than the Company. Competition could adversely affect the Company's ability to acquire suitable properties or prospects in the future. Uncertainty of Estimates Resource and reserve estimates of minerals are inherently imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from limited drilling, which may prove unreliable. Although estimated recoveries are based upon test results, actual recovery may vary with different rock types or formations in a way which could adversely affect operations. Reliance on Management and Directors The success of the Company is currently largely dependent on the performance of its officers. The loss of the services of these persons will have a materially adverse effect on the Company's business and prospects. There is no assurance the Company can maintain the services of its officers or other qualified personnel required to operate its business. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its prospects. The Company has not purchased any "key-man" insurance with respect to any of its directors or officers to the date hereof. The loss of any key officer of the Company could have an adverse impact on the Company, its business and its financial position. Fluctuating Mineral Prices Factors beyond the control of the Company may affect the marketability of metals discovered, if any. Metal prices have fluctuated widely, particularly in recent years. The effect of these factors cannot be predicted. Fluctuations in the price of gold may also adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing to fund our planned exploration programs. The Mining Industry Is Highly Speculative The Company is engaged in the exploration for minerals which involves a high degree of geological, technical and economic uncertainty because of the inability to predict future mineral prices, as well as the difficulty of determining the extent of a mineral deposit and the feasibility of extracting it without the expenditure of considerable money. 13 Environmental Considerations Although the PRC has enacted environmental protection legislation to regulate the mining industry, due to the very short history of this legislation, national and local environmental protection standards are still in the process of being formulated and implemented. The legislation provides for penalties and other liabilities for the violation of such standards and establishes, in certain circumstances, obligations to rehabilitate current and former facilities and locations where operations are being or have been conducted. Although the Company intends to fully comply with all environmental regulations, there is a risk that permission to conduct exploration and development activities could be withdrawn temporarily or permanently where there is evidence of serious breaches of such standards. The following risk factors apply to the business of Minco Silver and as such could affect the Company's investment therein: Permitting Requirements The ability of Minco Silver to carry out successful mining activities will depend on a number of factors. One of the most critical factors will be the ability of the Company to obtain mining licences and permits in China. Although the Company, through Foshan Minco, has applied for and obtained various permits for the Fuwan Project, additional permits and licenses will also be required in order to put the deposit into commercial production. These include permits and licenses pertaining to environmental matters, land use rights, water and forestry matters and, ultimately, a mining license. While applications for the additional required permits and licences have been, and will be, made by Foshan Minco to the relevant Chinese government authorities, there is no assurance that such permits or licenses will be issued in a timely manner, or at all. Many of the required licences and permits are, or will be, subject to conditions imposed by the PRC government as well as mining legislation of the PRC. No assurances can be given that all necessary permits, licenses or tenures will be granted to the Company through Foshan Minco, or, if they are granted, that the Company, through Foshan Minco, will be in a position to comply with all conditions and legal requirements that are imposed. For example, the business licenses of Minco China and Foshan Minco restrict the activities that may be carried on by these companies and in particular, Foshan Minco is not permitted under its business license to conduct exploration activities. To date, exploration activities conducted at the Fuwan Project have been conducted by Minco China. As the Fuwan Project is currently at development stage, Foshan Minco, as the operating company, has to obtain mining licence and other permits required for commercial production on the project. There is no certainty that such approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, each of Minco China and Foshan Minco is subject to an annual review process pursuant to which it must pass annual inspections of the Administration for Industry and Commerce in the PRC. As a result, if Foshan Minco does not pass its annual review it will not be authorized to carry on business in the PRC which may adversely affect the Company's interests in the Fuwan Project. The Company believes that it and Minco China and/or Foshan Minco are operating in material compliance with all applicable rules and regulations. Management of Minco Silver also believe that reasonable measures have been taken to ensure that the permits for the Fuwan Project have been duly approved by and registered with all relevant authorities in the People's Republic of China in accordance with the laws and regulations in effect and that Minco China and Foshan Minco are the registered owners of such permits. However, no legal opinion has been obtained to date concerning the land, assets, permits and licenses relating to the properties over which the Company, through Minco China and Foshan Minco, has or may acquire an interest. The Luoke-Jilinggang permit held by Foshan Minco, one of the four permits comprising the Fuwan Project, has been renewed until July 20, 2013. The other three permits, the Guanhuatang, Guyegang and Hecun permits held by Minco China, expire on April 7, 2013. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. 14 Capital Costs, Operating Costs and Production and Economic Returns The capital costs to take the Company's Fuwan Project into production may be significantly higher than estimated in the feasibility study technical report on the Fuwan project (the "Fuwan Technical Report"). The pre-production capital costs set out in the Fuwan Technical Report were estimated at US$73.1 million and pricing and quantity data was considered to be reasonable as at the date of the estimates. Changes in metal prices, exchanges rates and other factors since the date of the Fuwan Technical Report may result in greater costs than those estimated, which may have an adverse impact on the Company's ability and timing to bring the Fuwan Project into production. The Fuwan Project does not have an operating history upon which the Company can base estimates of future operating costs. Decisions about the development of the Fuwan Project and other mineral properties will ultimately be based upon feasibility studies. Feasibility studies derive estimates of cash operating costs based upon, among other things: · anticipated tonnage, grades and metallurgical characteristics of the ore to be mined and processed; · anticipated recovery rates of silver and other metals from the ore; · cash operating costs of comparable facilities and equipment; and · anticipated climatic conditions. Cash operating costs, production and economic returns, and other estimates contained in studies or estimates prepared by or for the Minco Silver, including the Fuwan Technical Report or other feasibility studies, if prepared, may differ significantly from those anticipated, and there can be no assurance that the Company's actual operating costs will not be higher than currently anticipated. Future Financing The funds raised by the public offering completed by Minco Silver in 2011 will not be sufficient to meet all of the its ongoing financial requirements relating to the exploration, development or operation of the Fuwan Project. Although it has received a conditional commitment of a project debt facility in the amount of RMB 300 million (approximately US$44.17 million) from the Guangdong Branch of ICBC for the Fuwan Project, this commitment represents only a portion of the funds required to construct the Fuwan silver mine and the facility is subject to certain conditions including receipt by the Company of the mining license. Minco Silver currently has limited financial resources and there is no assurance that additional funding will be available to it for further exploration and development of its projects. There can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be favourable. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of its projects with the possible loss of such properties. Currency Exchange Rates The Company maintains its accounts in US dollar, Canadian dollar and RMB denominations. The government of the PRC maintained the exchange rate between the RMB and the US dollar as a constant until July 2005 and thus exchange rates between the Canadian dollar and the RMB fluctuated in tandem with the changing exchange rates between the US and Canadian dollars. Since July 2005, the value of the RMB has been tied to a basket of currencies of China's largest trading partners. Given that most of Minco Silver's expenditures are currently and are anticipated to be incurred in U.S. dollars and RMB, Minco Silver is subject to foreign currency fluctuations which may materially affect its financial position and operating results. The Company does not currently have a formal hedging program to mitigate foreign currency exchange risks. 