Item 1A. Risk Factors Operating Factors The leaf tobacco industry is highly competitive, and we are heavily reliant on a few large customers. We are one of two major independent global competitors in the highly competitive leaf tobacco industry, both of whom are reliant upon a few large customers. The loss of one of those large customers or a significant decrease in their demand for our products or services could significantly decrease our sales of products or services, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The competition among leaf tobacco merchants is based on the ability to meet customer specifications in the buying, processing, and financing of tobacco, and on the price charged for products and services. We believe that we consistently meet our customers’ specifications and charge competitive prices. Because we rely upon a few significant customers, the consolidation, significant vertical integration, or failure of any of these large or significant customers could contribute to a significant decrease in our sales of products and services. We have seen an increase in competition from small competitors in some of the markets where we conduct business. Some of these competitors have expanded to operate in more than one country. These small competitors typically have lower overhead requirements. They provide little or no support to farmers. Due to their lower cost structures, they often can offer a price on products that is lower than our price. We have also seen an increase in our customers directly sourcing leaf tobacco from farmers to meet some of their raw material needs. If our customers shift significant purchases to these smaller competitors or source significant quantities themselves, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Our financial results can be significantly affected by changes in the balance of supply and demand for leaf tobacco. Because we are a leaf tobacco merchant, our financial results can be significantly affected by changes in the overall balance of worldwide supply and demand for leaf tobacco. The demand for tobacco, which is based upon customers’ expectations of their future requirements, can change from time to time depending upon internal and external factors affecting the demand for their products. Our customers’ expectations and their demand for leaf tobacco are influenced by a number of factors, including: • trends in the global consumption of cigarettes, • trends in sales of cigars and other tobacco products, and • levels of competition among our customers. The world supply of leaf tobacco at any given time is a function of current tobacco production, inventories held by manufacturers, and the volumes of uncommitted stocks of processed tobacco held by leaf tobacco merchants from prior years’ production. Production of tobacco in a given year may be significantly affected by such factors as: • weather and natural disasters, including any adverse weather conditions that may result from climate change, • crop infestation and disease, • availability of crop inputs, • volume of annual tobacco plantings and yields realized by farmers, • farmer elections to grow crops other than tobacco, • elimination of government subsidies to farmers, and • demographic shifts that change the number of farmers or the amount of land available to grow tobacco. Any significant change in these factors could cause a material imbalance in the supply and demand for tobacco, which would affect our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our financial results will vary according to growing conditions, customer requirements, and other factors. These factors also limit the ability to accurately forecast our future performance and increase the risk of an investment in our common stock or other securities. Our financial results, particularly our year-over-year quarterly comparisons, may be significantly affected by variations in tobacco growing seasons and fluctuations in crop sizes. The timing of the cultivation and delivery of tobacco is dependent upon a number of factors, including weather and other natural events, and our processing schedules and results of operations can be significantly altered by these factors. In addition, the potential impact of climate change is uncertain and may vary by geographic region. The possible effects, as described in various public accounts, could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels that could adversely impact our costs and business operations and the supply and demand for leaf tobacco. Our operations also rely on dependable and efficient transportation services. A disruption in transportation services, as a result of climate change or otherwise, may also significantly impact our results of operations. Further, the timing and unpredictability of customer orders and shipments may require us to keep tobacco in inventory or otherwise increase our risk and result in variations in quarterly and annual financial results. We base sales recognition on the passage of ownership, usually with shipment of product. Since individual shipments may represent significant amounts of revenue, our quarterly and annual financial results may vary significantly depending on the needs and shipping instructions of our customers and the availability of transportation services. These fluctuations result in varying volumes and sales in given periods, which also reduce the comparability of financial results for different periods or for the same periods in different years. Major shifts in customer requirements for tobacco supply may significantly affect our operating results. If our customers significantly alter their requirements for tobacco volumes from certain regions, we may have to change our production facilities and alter our fixed asset base in certain origins. Permanent or long-term reduction in demand for tobacco from origins where we have operations may trigger restructuring and impairment charges. We may also need to make significant capital investments in other regions to develop the needed infrastructure to meet customer supply requirements. In areas where we purchase leaf tobacco directly from farmers, we bear the risk that the tobacco we receive will not meet quality and quantity requirements. When we contract directly with tobacco farmers or tobacco farmer cooperatives, which is the method we use to purchase tobacco in most countries, we bear the risk that the tobacco delivered may not meet customer quality and quantity requirements. If the tobacco does not meet such market requirements, we may not be able to meet all of our customers’ orders, and such failure would have an adverse effect on profitability and results of operations. Because in a contract market we buy all of the farmers’ production, which encompasses many styles, we also have a risk that not all of that production will be readily marketable. In addition, in many foreign countries where we purchase tobacco directly from farmers, we provide them with financing. Unless we receive marketable tobacco that meets the quality and quantity specifications of our customers, we bear the risk that we will not be able to fully recover our crop advances or recover them in a reasonable period of time. Weather and other conditions can affect the marketability of our products. Tobacco crops are subject to vagaries of weather and the environment that can, in some cases, change the quality or size of the crops. If a weather event is particularly severe, such as a major drought or hurricane, the affected crop could be destroyed or damaged to an extent that it would be less desirable to manufacturers, which would result in a reduction in revenues. If such an event is also widespread, it could affect our ability to acquire the quantity of products required by our customers. In addition, other factors can affect the marketability of tobacco, including, among other things, the presence of: • excess residues of pesticides, fungicides, and herbicides, • foreign matter, and • genetically modified organisms. A significant event impacting the condition or quality of a large amount of any of the crops that we buy could make it difficult for us to sell these products or to fill customers’ orders. 9 Table of Contents Regulatory and Governmental Factors Government efforts to regulate the production and consumption of tobacco products could have a significant impact on the businesses of our customers, which would, in turn, affect our results of operations. The U.S. federal government and certain state and local governments have taken or proposed actions that may have the effect of reducing U.S. consumption of tobacco products and indirectly reducing demand for our products and services. These activities have included: • restrictions on the use of tobacco products in public places and places of employment, • legislation authorizing the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) to regulate the manufacturing and marketing of tobacco products, • increases in the federal, state, and local excise taxes on cigarettes and other tobacco products, and • the policy of the U.S. government to link certain federal grants to the enforcement of state laws restricting the sale of tobacco products. Numerous other legislative and regulatory anti-smoking measures have been proposed at the federal, state, and local levels. The United States represents only 9% of the world market for cigarette production outside of the People’s Republic of China. A number of foreign governments and global non-government organizations also have taken or proposed steps to restrict or prohibit tobacco product advertising and promotion, to increase taxes on tobacco products, to indirectly limit the use of certain types of tobacco, and to discourage tobacco product consumption. A number of such measures are included in the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (“FCTC”), which was negotiated and promoted globally under the auspices of the World Health Organization (“WHO”). We cannot predict the extent to which the efforts of governments or non-governmental agencies to reduce tobacco consumption might affect the business of our primary customers. However, a significant decrease in worldwide tobacco consumption brought about by existing or future governmental laws and regulations would reduce demand for our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Government actions can have a significant effect on the sourcing of tobacco. If some of the current efforts are successful, we could have difficulty obtaining sufficient tobacco to meet our customers’ requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our performance and results of operations. The WHO, through the FCTC, has created a formal study group to identify and assess crop diversification initiatives and alternatives to leaf tobacco growing in countries whose economies depend upon tobacco production. The study group began its work in February 2007. If certain countries were to partner with the FCTC study group and seek to eliminate or significantly reduce leaf tobacco production, we could encounter difficulty in sourcing leaf tobacco to fill customer requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues, including climate change, conservation, and natural resource management, could result in new or more stringent forms of regulatory oversight of industry activities, which may lead to increased levels of expenditures for environmental controls, land use restrictions affecting us or our suppliers, and other conditions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, certain aspects of our business generate carbon emissions. Regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions have been proposed. These may include limitations on such emissions, taxes or emission allowance fees on such emissions, various restrictions on industrial operations, and other measures that could affect land-use decisions, the cost of agricultural production, and the cost and means of processing and transporting our products. These actions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Because we conduct a significant portion of our operations internationally, political and economic uncertainties in certain countries could have an adverse effect on our performance and results of operations. Our international operations are subject to uncertainties and risks relating to the political stability of certain foreign governments, principally in developing countries and emerging markets, and also to the effects of changes in the trade policies and economic regulations of foreign governments. These uncertainties and risks, which include undeveloped or antiquated commercial law, the expropriation or nationalization of assets, and the authority to revoke or refuse to renew business licenses and work permits, may adversely impact our ability to effectively manage our operations in those countries. For example, in the past, we have experienced significant year-to-year fluctuations in earnings due to changes in the Brazilian government’s economic policies, and government actions in Zimbabwe have reduced the tobacco crop there, causing us to shift sourcing of tobacco to other countries. We have substantial capital investments in South America and Africa, and the performance of our operations in those regions can materially affect our earnings. If the political situation in any of the countries where we conduct business were to deteriorate significantly, our ability to recover assets located there could be impaired. To the extent that we do not replace any lost volumes of tobacco with tobacco from other sources, or we incur increased costs related to such replacement, our financial condition, results of operations, or both would suffer. Changes in tax laws in the countries where we do business may adversely affect our results of operations. Through our subsidiaries, we are subject to the tax laws of many jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws can affect our earnings, as can the resolution of various pending and contested tax issues. In most jurisdictions, we regularly have audits and examinations by the designated tax authorities, and additional tax assessments are common. We believe that we routinely comply with applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions where we operate, and we vigorously contest all significant tax assessments where we believe we are in compliance with the tax laws. 11 Table of Contents Financial Factors Failure of our customers or farmers to repay extensions of credit could materially impact our results of operations. We extend credit to both farmers and customers. A significant bad debt provision related to amounts due could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, crop advances to farmers are generally secured by the farmers’ agreement to deliver green tobacco. In the event of crop failure, delivery failure, or permanent reductions in crop sizes, full recovery of advances may never be realized, or otherwise could be delayed until future crops are delivered. See Notes 1 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for more information on these extensions of credit. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our results of operations. We account for most of our tobacco operations using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency. The international tobacco trade generally is conducted in U.S. dollars, and we finance most of our tobacco operations in U.S. dollars. Although this generally limits foreign exchange risk to the economic risk that is related to leaf purchase and production costs, overhead, and income taxes in the source country, significant currency movements could materially impact our results of operations. Changes in exchange rates can make a particular crop more or less expensive in U.S. dollar terms. If a particular crop is viewed as expensive in U.S. dollar terms, it may be less attractive in the world market. This could negatively affect the profitability of that crop and our results of operations. In certain tobacco markets that are primarily domestic, we use the local currency as the functional currency. Examples of these markets are Hungary, Poland, and the Philippines. In other markets, such as Western Europe, where export sales have been denominated primarily in local currencies, we also use the local currency as the functional currency. In these markets, reported earnings are affected by the translation of the local currency into the U.S. dollar. See Item 7A, “Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk” for additional discussion related to foreign currency exchange risk. Our purchases of tobacco are generally made in local currency, and we also provide farmer advances that are denominated in the local currency. We account for currency remeasurement gains or losses on those advances as period costs, and they are usually accompanied by offsetting increases or decreases in the purchase cost of tobacco, which is priced in the local currency. The effect of differences in the cost of tobacco is generally not realized in our earnings until the tobacco is sold, which often occurs in a quarter or fiscal year subsequent to the recognition of the related remeasurement gains or losses. The difference in timing could affect our profitability in a given quarter or fiscal year. For example, during fiscal year 2009, we recorded remeasurement losses of more than $40 million related to a significant devaluation of the Brazilian currency. We have used currency hedging strategies to reduce our foreign currency exchange rate risks in some markets. In addition, where there are no active forward foreign exchange markets in countries where we source tobacco, we often manage our foreign exchange risk by matching funding for inventory purchases with the currency of sale and by minimizing our net investment in these countries. To the extent that we have net monetary assets or liabilities in local currency, we may have currency remeasurement gains or losses that will affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates may affect our results of operations. In our business, customers usually either pre-finance purchases or pay market rates of interest for inventory purchased on order. From time to time, we borrow long-term debt at fixed rates. Through hedging agreements, we may swap the interest rates on our existing fixed-rate debt to floating market interest rates to better match the interest rates that we charge our customers. To the extent we are unable to match these interest rates, a decrease in short-term interest rates could increase our net financing costs. In addition, at times we may have significant amounts of cash invested. Decreases in short-term interest rates reduce the income we derive from those investments. Changes in interest rates also affect expense related to our defined benefit pension plan, as described elsewhere in these “Risk Factors.” 12 Table of Contents Low investment performance by our defined benefit pension plan assets may increase our pension expense, and may require us to fund a larger portion of our pension obligations, thus, diverting funds from other potential uses. We sponsor a domestic defined benefit pension plan that covers certain eligible employees. Our results of operations may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of income or expense we record for this plan. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions, which may change based on changes in key economic indicators. The most significant year-end assumptions we used to estimate pension income or expense for 2010 are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to shareholders’ equity through a reduction or increase to “Funded status of pension and other postretirement benefits.” At the end of fiscal year 2010, the projected benefit obligation of our U.S. principal pension plan was $191 million and assets were $164 million. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see “Critical Accounting Estimates – Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 and in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Although GAAP expense and pension funding contributions are not directly related, key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to pension plans under requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Failure to achieve expected returns on plan assets could also result in an increase to the amount of cash we would be required to contribute to pension plans. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 13 Table of Contents 