RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. You should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the material risks or uncertainties we face were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline. We have historically incurred losses and we expect these losses to continue in the future. We may not be able to sustain consistent future revenue growth on a quarterly or annual basis, or achieve or maintain profitability. We have not been profitable since fiscal 1998. Although we have reported record revenue for fiscal 2005, we cannot be certain that our revenue will continue to grow, that we will produce sufficient revenue to achieve profitability or that our revenue will not decline in the future. We have experienced losses of $13.4 million, $9.5 million and $7.7 million for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. At July 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $144.5 million. To become profitable and sustain profitability, we will need to generate additional revenues to offset our expenses. We may not achieve or sustain revenue growth and our losses may continue or increase in the future. The synchronization market is evolving, and as a result we cannot accurately predict either the future growth rate, if any, or the ultimate size of the market for our 13 products and services. Because our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, any shortfalls in revenues would materially affect our results of operations. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are subject to significant fluctuations, and our stock price may decline if we do not meet the expectations of investors and analysts. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and have and may in the future fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: · growth in the market for enterprise synchronization applications and our ability to successfully address this market; · our reliance on international sales and growth; · our ability to penetrate the international market; · market acceptance of products in which our software is integrated by original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs; · our ability to realize our goals with respect to recent and potential future acquisitions; · our need and ability to generate and manage growth; · rapid evolution of technology; · our evolving business model; · litigation-related expenses; · fluctuations in gross margins; · the seasonal nature of the market for some of our products; · changes in the market for mobility and identity search/screening software; · introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors; · the recent decline in the market for traditional personal digital assistants; · changes in our mix of sources of revenue; and · entrenched and substantial competition. Additionally, we generally derive our technology licensing revenue from multi-year contracts with enterprise and other customers that frequently include license fees, professional services fees, royalty payments and maintenance. We typically earn both the license fees and the professional services in the initial one or two quarters subsequent to the signing of a contract. We periodically have large professional services implementations that individually contribute as much as 5% or more to quarterly revenue. Combined with related license revenue, total revenue from individual customers in the initial quarters of a contract may exceed the revenue we earn during subsequent periods covered by the contract. To the extent that we do not secure additional contracts with the same customer or secure comparably sized commitments from other customers, we may not be able to sustain or grow our revenue. We may incur significant stock-based compensation charges related to certain stock options and restricted stock in future periods. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued in December 2004 Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment, an amendment of FASB Statements 14 Nos. 123 and 95,” that addresses the accounting treatment for employee stock options and other share-based payment transactions. The statement eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and generally requires that such transactions be accounted for using a fair-value-based method and recognized as expenses. The statement and the change in accounting treatment will result in our reporting increased operating expenses beginning for our next fiscal quarter ending October 31, 2005, which would decrease any reported net income or increase any reported net loss, and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We face intense competition in the market for mobile computing synchronization products and services, which could reduce our market share and revenue. Our market contains few substantial barriers to entry. We believe we will face additional competition from existing competitors and new market entrants in the future. We are subject to current and potential competition with respect to our Intellisync Handheld Edition, Intellisync Handheld Edition for Enterprise, Intellisync Mobile Suite, Intellisync SyncML and Identity Search Servers. · Intellisync Mobile Suite enterprise server software—CommonTime, Good Technology, Inc., Research In Motion Limited, Sybase Inc.’s iAnywhere, and others. · Intellisync Mobile Suite and Intellisync SyncML software for mobile carriers—Good Technology, Inc., Research In Motion Limited, Seven Networks, Inc., Visto Corporation, and others. · Intellisync consumer and enterprise desktop sync products—Chapura, Inc.’s Pocket Mirror, CommonTime’s Cadenza mNotes, IBM Corporation, Microsoft Corporation ActiveSync, Palm Desktop from PalmSource, Inc., Sybase Inc.’s iAnywhere, and others. · Identity Search Server—Ascential, Dataflux, Firstlogic, Group1, IBM Corporation, Intelligent Search Technology, Language Analysis Systems, Trillium Software, and others. In addition to the direct competition noted above, we face indirect competition from existing and potential customers that may provide internally developed solutions for each of our technology licensing components. As a result, we must educate prospective customers as to the advantage of our products compared to internally developed solutions. We currently face limited direct competition from major applications and operating systems software vendors who may in the future choose to incorporate data synchronization functionality into their operating systems software, thereby potentially reducing the need for OEMs to include our products in their devices. For example, Microsoft’s inclusion of certain features permitting data synchronization between computers utilizing the Windows Mobile and Exchange operating systems, or the Exchange 2003 platform, may have the effect of reducing revenue from our software if users of these operating systems perceive that their data synchronization needs are adequately met by Microsoft. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and more established relationships in the industry than we do. Our larger competitors may be able to provide customers with additional benefits in connection with their products and costs, including reduced communications costs. As a result, these companies may be able to price their products and services more competitively than we can and respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may lose market share, and our business and prospects would suffer. Consolidation in wireless messaging and mobile computing synchronization industry may strengthen our competitors’ position in our market. Consolidation of our competitors has occurred, and we expect it 15 to continue to occur in the foreseeable future. Acquisitions may further strengthen our competitors’ financial, technical and marketing resources. If we fail to develop and sell products designed for OEMs, enterprises and mobile carriers, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected. We have recently made substantial investments to develop and offer an expanded range of enterprise synchronization applications, including our acquisition of PDAapps, Tourmaline, Synchrologic and Identity Systems. Our operating plans assume revenue growth from the enterprise market. Enterprise sales present a variety of challenges that are different from those inherent in our historical licensing and consumer business model, and we have limited experience addressing these challenges. For example, enterprise sales typically involve large up-front license fees, which can result in lengthy sales cycles and uncertainties as to the timing of sales driven by customers’ budgetary processes. As a result, we generally have less visibility into future enterprise sales than is typically the case in our royalty-based technology licensing business. In addition, while enterprise sales generally result in ongoing maintenance revenue and may lead to follow-on purchases or upgrades, we are typically dependent on sales to new customers for a significant portion of our enterprise revenue in a given quarter. If our product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, or if enterprise sales fail to meet our expectations in a particular quarter, our revenue and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Our business and prospects depend, to a significant degree, on demand for wireless and other mobile computing devices. The use of wireless and other mobile computing devices for retrieving, sharing and transferring information among businesses, consumers, suppliers and partners has begun to develop only in recent years. Our success will depend in large part on continued growth in the use of wireless and other mobile computing devices, including handheld computers, smart phones, pagers and other mobile devices. In addition, our markets face critical unresolved issues concerning the commercial use of wireless and other mobile computing devices, including security, reliability, cost, ease of access and use, quality of service, regulatory initiatives and necessary increases in bandwidth availability. Demand for, and market acceptance of, wireless and other mobile computing devices which require our products and services are subject to a high level of uncertainty and are dependent on a number of factors, including: · growth in sales of handheld devices, smart phones and other mobile computing devices supported by our software and growth in wireless network capabilities to match end-user demand and requirements; · emergence of a viable and sustainable market for wireless and mobile computing services; · our product and service differentiation and quality; · the development of technologies that facilitate interactive communication between organizations; · our distribution and pricing strategies as compared with those of our competitors; · the growth in access to, and market acceptance of, new interactive technologies; · increases in bandwidth for data transmission; · the effectiveness of our marketing strategy and efforts; · our industry reputation; and · general industry and economic conditions such as slowdowns in the computer or software markets or the economy in general. 16 If the market for wireless and other mobile computing devices as a commercial or business medium does not develop, or develops more slowly than expected, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be seriously harmed. Even if the wireless and mobile computing services market does develop, our products and services may not achieve widespread market acceptance. If our target customers do not adopt, purchase and successfully deploy our other current and planned products and services, our revenue will not grow significantly and our business, results of operations and financial condition will be seriously harmed. We are exposed to potential risks and we will continue to incur increased costs as a result of the internal control testing and evaluation process mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although we have now completed the documentation and testing of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for fiscal 2005, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we expect we will have to incur continuing costs, including increased accounting fees and increased staffing levels, in order to maintain compliance with that section of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In the future, if we fail to complete the Sarbanes-Oxley 404 evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest in a timely manner to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Also, if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to our practices, our reputation may be harmed or we may be subject to litigation. Future acquisitions of companies, some of which may have operations outside the United States, may provide us with challenges in implementing the required processes, procedures and controls in our acquired operations. Acquired companies may not have disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting that are as thorough or effective as those required by securities law in the United States. Although we intend to devote substantial time and incur substantial costs, as necessary, to ensure ongoing compliance, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in complying with Section 404. We are placing increasing emphasis on our hosting services, of which potential growth may be difficult to manage effectively, and, as a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are increasingly focusing our sales and marketing and engineering efforts on hosting services. This focus may cause increased business risks associated specifically with our ability to manage the level of complexity involved in executing successfully our strategies to provide superior services for mobile carriers. The rapid growth of our hosting business may place a significant strain on our management, operations and resources. Our future performance and profitability will depend on our ability to: · increase our capital investments and further build our infrastructure to meet the demands of our carrier customers; · maintain technical capabilities to compete effectively in the hosting business; and · effectively oversee and manage our outsourced hosting center. There can be no assurance that our systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support rapid expansion of our hosting services. If we are unable to manage such growth successfully, our business and results of operations could be harmed. 17 Revenue from hosting services may carry lower gross margins and an overall increase in such revenue as a percentage of total revenue could have an adverse impact on our business. Our commitment to providing quality services to our enterprise and mobile carrier customers may result in our hosting service revenue having a lower gross margin than other services and license revenue. Due to the lower margin, an increase in the hosting service revenue as a percentage of total revenue could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins and could adversely affect operating results. In addition, a change in the mix between services that are provided by our own employees and those services provided by third-party vendors may negatively affect our gross margins. System failures or accidental or intentional security breaches could disrupt our operations, cause us to incur significant expenses, expose us to liability and harm our reputation. Our operations, including hosting services, depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems and core business applications, which are located at our offices, as well as hosted by third-party vendors. Although we are taking various precautions to maintain and protect our systems, they could still be vulnerable to damage from break-ins, unauthorized access, vandalism, fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. We maintain insurance against break-in, unauthorized access, vandalism, fires, floods, earthquakes and general business interruptions. The amount of coverage, however, may not be adequate in any particular case, and will not likely compensate us for all the damages caused by these or similar events. In addition, while we put various security measures in place to detect any unauthorized access to our computers and computer networks, we may be unable to prevent computer programmers or hackers from penetrating our network security or creating viruses to sabotage or otherwise attack our computer networks from time to time. A breach of our security could seriously damage our operations or reputation. In addition, because a hacker who penetrates our network security could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services, we might be required to expend significant resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We might also face liability to persons harmed by misappropriation of secure information if it is determined that we did not exercise sufficient care to protect our systems. Systems failure or damage could cause an interruption of our services and result in loss of customers, difficulties in attracting new customers and could adversely impact our operating results. In addition, if the number of customers who purchase our hosting services increases over time, our systems must be able to accommodate increased usage. If we are unable to increase our capacity to accommodate growth in usage, we could encounter system performance issues, which could harm our relationships with customers and our reputation. We expect that we may become increasingly dependent on mobile carriers for the success of our wireless software. The success of our wireless business strategy is increasingly becoming dependent on our ability to establish new relationships and build on our existing relationships with domestic and international mobile carriers. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in establishing new relationships or advancing existing relationships with mobile carriers or that these mobile carriers will act in a manner that will promote the success of our wireless products. Factors that are largely within the control of mobile carriers but which are important to our success, include: · the degree to which mobile carriers facilitate the introduction of and actively promote, distribute and resell our products; · testing of our products on mobile carriers’ networks; · quality and coverage area of wireless services offered by the mobile carriers; 18 · the extent to which mobile carriers require specific hardware and software features on our products to be used on their networks; · contractual terms and conditions imposed on us by mobile carriers that, in some circumstances, could limit our ability to make similar products available through competitive carriers in some market segments; and · mobile carriers’ pricing requirements and subsidy programs. Mobile carriers have significant bargaining power as we negotiate agreements with them. They could require contract terms that are difficult for us to meet and could result in higher costs to complete certification requirements and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Mobile carriers also place significant conditions on our ability to develop and launch products for use on their wireless networks. If we fail to address the needs of mobile carriers, identify new product and service opportunities or modify or improve our products in response to changes in technology, industry standards or mobile carrier requirements, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. If we fail to timely develop products that meet carrier product planning cycles or fail to deliver sufficient quantities of products in a timely manner to mobile carriers, those carriers may choose to offer similar products from our competitors and thereby reduce their focus on and cease offering our products which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the potential rapid growth of our business, as we become more dependent on mobile carriers, may place a strain on our management, operations, employees, or resources. We may not be able to maintain a rapid growth rate, effectively manage our expanding operations, or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may experience operating inefficiencies, and our net income may be materially adversely affected. Most sales with mobile carriers and enterprises have a long sales cycle process, which increases the cost of completing sales and renders completion of sales less predictable. The sales cycle process with mobile carriers could be long, making it difficult to predict the quarter in which we may recognize revenue from a sale, if at all. The general length of the sales cycle increases our costs and may cause license revenue and other operating results to vary significantly from period to period. Our products or technology often are part of significant strategic decisions by our customers regarding their information systems. Accordingly, the decision to license our products typically requires significant pre-purchase evaluation. We spend substantial time providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. During this evaluation period, we may expend significant funds in sales and marketing efforts. If anticipated sales from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, our operating results may be adversely affected. Our stock price has historically been and may continue to be volatile, which may cause you to lose money and could lead to costly litigation against us that could divert our resources. Stock markets have recently experienced dramatic price and volume fluctuations, particularly for shares of technology companies. These fluctuations can be unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market fluctuations may reduce the market price of our common stock and cause you to lose some or all of your investment. These fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. In addition, due to the technology-intensive nature and growth rate of our business and the mobile computing synchronization market, the market price of our common stock has in the past and may in the future rise and fall in response to: · quarterly variations in operating results; · seasonal fluctuations on product sales; 19 · announcements of technological innovations; · announcements of new software or services by us or our competitors; · acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; · commencement or outcome of litigation involving us; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and · other events beyond our control, including general market conditions. Furthermore, our operating results and prospects from time to time may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. Any negative change in the public’s perception of companies in the wireless communications market could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results. Recently, companies experiencing high volatility or significant drops in their stock prices have faced securities class action lawsuits when the market price of a stock has been volatile. Holders of that stock have often instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock when such stock declines. If any of our stockholders brought such a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. We maintain some level of insurance for such matters however we cannot guarantee that such insurance will be available or will cover the amount of any award. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Further, any settlement of such a lawsuit could adversely affect us. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights. The rights we rely upon to protect our intellectual property underlying our products and services may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use our technology and would reduce our ability to compete in the market. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. These efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology. These efforts also may not prevent others from developing products or technologies similar to, competitive with, or superior to those we develop. Any of these results could reduce the value of our intellectual property. We may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Any such litigation could be very costly and could distract our management from focusing on operating our business. Moreover, our business could be harmed if our patents were determined to be invalid. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which are costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging that our products or services infringe proprietary rights held by them. For example, as we announced in August 2004, NCR Corporation filed a complaint alleging patent infringement in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio Western Division (Dayton). In the complaint, NCR alleged that certain of our products infringe upon three of NCR’s patents. That case was settled and dismissed by mutual agreement in July 2005. Our customers may receive notices of patent or other infringement from third parties and ask for indemnification in the future. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement against us, or whether any past, present or future claims will prevent us from offering products or operating our business as planned. Due to the inherently uncertain nature of intellectual property protection and the competitive area in which we operate our business, it is possible that some or all of our products and services could be found to be infringing on the intellectual property of others. We may have to pay substantial damages, including 20 treble damages, for past infringement if it is ultimately determined that our products or services infringe a third party’s proprietary rights. We may have to comply with injunctions, or stop distributing our products and services while we re-engineer them or seek licenses to necessary technology, which might not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. We could also be subject to claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims made against our customers, which could increase our defense costs and potential damages. Even if the claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management’s attention from other business concerns. We have been, are and may in the future be involved in litigation that could result in significant costs to us. In order to protect our proprietary rights, we may decide to sue other companies. Litigation proceedings are inherently uncertain, and we may not prevail in our defenses or claims. In addition, such litigation is expensive and time-consuming, and management has been in the past and may in the future be required to spend significant time in the prosecution of such suits. If we do not prevail in our claims, we might be forced to accept an unfavorable settlement or judgment and even be required to reimburse other companies in a suit for their legal expenses in defending the suit. An unfavorable settlement or judgment could also materially harm our ability to use existing intellectual property and severely harm our business as a result. Future sales of our common stock, including the shares underlying the convertible senior notes we recently issued, may depress our stock price. If our current stockholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. In addition, these sales of common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our recently issued convertible senior notes and impede our ability to raise funds in the future at an advantageous price, or at all, through another sales of securities. As of July 31, 2005, we had approximately 66,639,299 shares of common stock outstanding. Assuming that the maximum number of shares and options are issued and registered by us in connection with all of our recent acquisitions and assuming that all shares subject to vested options to purchase common stock under our stock plans are issued, additional shares of our common stock could become issued or issuable and freely tradeable in the public market through approximately July 31, 2006, as follows: · approximately 360,000 shares of our common stock that may be issued in August 2005 and February 2006 under our employee stock purchase plan; and · approximately 6,350,000 shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options that will be vested by July 31, 2006. In addition, conversion of some or all of the $60,000,000 aggregate principal amount of convertible subordinated notes that we issued in March 2004 will dilute the ownership interests of investors. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships or enter into new relationships with OEM and business development organizations, or if products offered by our OEM partners fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance, our brand awareness, the sales of our products and use of our services would suffer. Our revenue from technology licensing depends, in large part, on our ability to develop and maintain relationships with OEMs and business development organizations that help distribute our products and promote our services. We depend on these relationships to: · distribute our products to purchasers of mobile devices; 21 · increase the use of our technology licensing components; · build brand awareness through product marketing; and · market our products and services cooperatively. If the products that these equipment manufacturers or business development organizations sell, or if the operating systems upon which these products are based, fail to achieve or sustain market acceptance, or if any of these companies cease to use our product and service offerings in significant volumes, our product sales would decline and our business would suffer. For example, if growth in the number of devices sold by our OEM partners is delayed or did not occur, our business would suffer. Although several OEMs are subject to certain contractual minimum purchase obligations, we cannot be certain that any particular OEM will satisfy its minimum obligations. Weakening demand from any key OEM and the inability to replace revenue provided by such an OEM could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We maintain individually significant receivable balances from major OEMs. If these OEMs fail to meet their payment obligations, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our agreements with OEMs, distributors, and resellers generally are nonexclusive and may be terminated on short notice by either party without cause. Furthermore, our OEMs, distributors and resellers are not within our control, are not obligated to purchase products from us, and may represent other lines of products, including competing products. A reduction in sales effort or discontinuance of sales of our products by our OEMs, distributors, and resellers could lead to reduced sales and could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our market changes rapidly due to evolution in technology and industry standards. If we do not adapt to meet the sophisticated needs of our customers, our business and prospects will suffer. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product and service introductions. For example, the traditional personal digital assistant market, is declining and may continue to do so. Our future success will depend to a substantial degree on our ability to offer products and services that adapt to these changing markets, incorporate leading technology, address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our current and prospective customers and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our rapidly evolving market makes it more likely that: · our technology or products may become obsolete upon the introduction of alternative technologies; · we may not have sufficient resources to develop or acquire new technologies or to introduce new products or services capable of competing with future technologies or service offerings of other companies; and · we may not have sufficient resources to develop or acquire new technologies or to introduce new products or services capable of competing with future technologies or service offerings of other companies. To the extent we determine that new technologies and equipment are required to remain competitive, the development, acquisition and implementation of these technologies and equipment are likely to continue to require significant capital investment by us. Moreover, we cannot be certain that we can develop, market and deliver new products and technology on a timely basis. Sufficient capital may not be available for this purpose in the future, and even if it is available, investments in new technologies may not result in commercially viable technological processes and there may not be commercial applications for such technologies. If we do not develop, acquire and introduce new products and services and achieve market acceptance in a timely manner, our business and prospects will suffer. 22 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to detect fraud or report our financial results accurately, which could harm our business. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to detect and prevent fraud. We periodically assess our system of internal controls, and the internal controls of service providers upon which we rely, to review their effectiveness and identify potential areas of improvement. These assessments may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to our system of internal controls are necessary. In addition, from time to time we acquire businesses, many of which have limited infrastructure and systems of internal controls. Performing assessments of internal controls, implementing necessary changes, and maintaining an effective internal controls process is expensive and requires considerable management attention, particularly in the case of newly acquired entities. Internal control systems are designed in part upon assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and all such systems, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls or prevent fraud, we could suffer losses, could be subject to costly litigation, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our brand and operating results could be harmed, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We are dependent on our international operations for a significant portion of our revenue. International revenue, primarily from customers based in Europe and Asia Pacific, accounted for 31%, 33% and 36% of our revenue in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In the future, we may further expand our international presence. As we continue to expand internationally, we are increasingly subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: · longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; · seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; · export controls relating to encryption technology and other export restrictions; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates, against which we do not currently hedge; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and · an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes based on the amount and mix of income from international customers. Our international sales growth will be limited if we, in the future, are unable to expand international sales channel management and support, customize products for local markets, and develop relationships with international service providers, distributors and device manufacturers. For example, in recent quarters we have invested substantially in expanding sales operations, and these investments may not generate offsetting increases in revenue. Even if we are able to expand international operations successfully, we cannot be certain that we will succeed in maintaining or expanding international market demand for our products. 23 Geographic expansion and growth, including the establishment of new sales or engineering operations, may negatively affect our overall operations and cause us to incur significant additional costs and expenses. We have an engineering facility in Delhi, India, gained through our acquisition of PDAapps, and we established engineering facilities in Sofia, Bulgaria and Cluj-Napoca, Romania. In the future, we may further expand our engineering or sales operations to other geographic areas within the United States and internationally. Our expansion may cause us to incur various costs and expenses, and may place a significant strain upon our operating and financial systems and resources that could materially adversely affect our financial results following such an expansion. We also face significant business risks related to the difficulty in assimilating new operations and the diversion of management’s attention from other business. Additionally, if we fail to align employee skills and populations with revenue and market requirements, it may have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. Moreover, these newly established operations may not contribute significantly to our sales or earnings. Foreign exchange fluctuations could decrease our revenue or cause us to lose money, especially since we do not hedge against currency fluctuations. We believe that in the future, an increasing portion of our costs will be denominated in foreign currencies as we increase operations in Europe and open offices in other countries. We currently do not engage in foreign exchange hedging activities and, although we have not yet experienced any material losses due to foreign currency fluctuation, a portion of our international revenue are currently subject to the risks of foreign currency fluctuations, and these risks will increase as our international revenue increases. Our recent and any potential acquisitions could require significant management attention and prove difficult to integrate with our business, which could distract our management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. As part of our strategy, we intend to continue to make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. We recently acquired PDAapps, Inc. (June 2005), Tourmaline Networks, Inc. (in March 2005), SoftVision SRL’s workforce (through a transfer in June 2004), Identity Systems (in March 2004), Synchrologic, Inc. (in December 2003) and Spontaneous Technology, Inc. (in September 2003). We may not realize future benefits from any of these acquisitions, or from any acquisition we may make in the future. If we fail to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, or the technologies associated with such acquisitions, into our company, the revenue and operating results of the combined company could be adversely affected. Any integration process will require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. If our customers are uncertain about our ability to operate on a combined basis, they could delay or cancel orders for our products. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology and accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. Acquisitions involve a number of additional difficulties and risks to our business, including, but not limited to, the following: · failure to integrate management information systems, personnel, research and development and marketing, sales and support operations; · potential loss of key employees from Intellisync or the acquired company; · disruption of our ongoing business; · potential loss of the acquired company’s customers; · failure to develop further the acquired company’s technology successfully, resulting in the potential impairment of amounts capitalized as intangible assets under SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other 24 Intangible Assets” and SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets;” · unanticipated costs and liabilities, including those that may arise from disputes over the earnout provision of the acquisition agreement; and · amortization expenses related to intangible assets (other than goodwill). Further, we have issued common stock and paid cash for recent acquisitions and may have to pay cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, each of which could affect our financial condition or the market price of our common stock. The sale of additional equity or debt to finance such future acquisitions could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations. Goodwill and other intangibles resulting from our acquisitions could become impaired. As of July 31, 2005, our goodwill, developed and core technology and other intangibles amounted to $94,420,000, net of accumulated amortization. We ceased to amortize our existing goodwill upon our adoption of SFAS No. 142 in the beginning of fiscal 2003. We will amortize approximately $8,616,000, $7,980,000, $4,404,000, $2,190,000 and $2,756,000 for fiscal 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and thereafter, respectively, of developed and core technology and other intangibles. We expect, however, that amortization expense may increase significantly as a result of any future acquisitions. To the extent we do not generate sufficient cash flows to recover the net amount of any investment in goodwill and other intangibles recorded, the investment could be considered impaired and subject to write-off. We expect to record further goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of any future acquisitions we may complete. Future amortization of such other intangible assets or impairments, if any, of goodwill would adversely affect our results of operations in any given period. We depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel. The success of our business will continue to depend upon certain key technical and senior management personnel, including our president and chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief marketing officer, chief financial officer and other key senior executives, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our existing key managerial, technical, or sales and marketing personnel. The loss of these officers and other or key employees in the future might adversely affect our business and impede the achievement of our business objectives. We believe our ability to achieve increased revenue and to develop successful new products and product enhancements will depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled sales and marketing and qualified product development personnel. In addition, competition for employees in our industry and geographic location could be intense. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel on acceptable terms. Our ability to hire and retain such personnel will depend in part upon our ability to raise capital or achieve increased revenue levels to fund the costs associated with such personnel. Failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our business. If we are unable to provide satisfactory and high quality services through our professional services group, customer satisfaction and demand for our products will suffer. Many of our customers have been successful in implementing our various technology initiatives without further provision of technical service. However, we believe that building strong relationships with our customers, as well as future growth in our product sales, depends on our ability to provide our customers with professional services, including customer support, training, consulting and initial 25 implementation and deployment of our products when necessary. We have an in-house professional services group and use international software development partners with a workforce that can perform these tasks and that also educates third-party systems integrators in the use of our products so that these systems integrators can provide these services to our customers. If we are unable to develop sufficient relationships with third-party systems integrators and other customers, unable to complete product implementations in a timely manner, or unable to provide customers with satisfactory and quality support, consulting, maintenance and other services, we could face customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation, decreased overall demand for our products and loss of revenue. We may have to spend substantial funds on sales and marketing in the future. To increase awareness for our new and existing products, technology and services, we may have to spend significantly more on sales and marketing in the future. We also plan to continue to leverage our relationships with industry leaders and to expand and diversify our sales and marketing initiatives to increase our sales to mobile carriers and enterprises. If our marketing strategy is unsuccessful, we may not be able to recover these expenses or even generate any revenue. We will be required to develop a marketing and sales campaign that will effectively demonstrate the advantages of our products, technology and services. We may also elect to enter into agreements or relationships with third parties regarding the promotion or marketing of our products, technology and services. We cannot be certain that we will be able to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities, that we will be able to enter into marketing agreements or relationships with third parties on financially acceptable terms, or that any third parties with whom we enter into such arrangements will be successful in marketing and promoting the products, technology and services offered by us. Our products may contain errors that could subject us to product-related claims. Our products may contain undetected errors or failures, which can result in loss of or delay in market acceptance and could adversely impact future operating results. Our insurance may not cover us for certain claims related to product failures. Although our license agreements contain provisions limiting our liability in the case of damages resulting from use of the software, in the event of such damages, we may be found liable, and in such event, such damages could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our revenue from consumer sales is subject to risks associated with the declining wired PDA market and reliance on sales distribution channels. While the market for converged mobile devices or smartphones and other wireless mobile devices has experienced growth recently, the market for traditional personal digital assistants, or PDAs, has declined. The decline in traditional PDA sales had a direct impact on sales of our Intellisync products through the consumer and online channels, where sales of our synchronization software typically occur at the same time a PDA is purchased, or shortly thereafter. The increase in demand for smartphones and other such devices may not offset the decline in traditional PDA sales. Our consumer sales are also dependent upon distribution and marketing channels outside our control. There are also a significant number of our customers that purchase our products and services through other resellers, and we anticipate they will continue to do so as we expand our product offerings. Our sales, therefore, could also be negatively affected by disruptions in our relationships with resellers or disruptions in the relationships between our resellers and customers. Resellers may also choose not to emphasize our products to their customers. If we are unable to offset declining revenue from PDA-related software, or if we experience disruption in, or reduced selling efforts from, our distribution channels, our revenue derived from consumer sales would be adversely affected. 26 We may need to raise additional capital in the future resulting in dilution to our stockholders. We may need to raise additional funds for our business operations and to execute our business strategy. We may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or to obtain an additional credit facility. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, these securities could have rights that are senior to holders of common stock and could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. Any additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may not have sufficient cash flow to make payments on any debt we may incur. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our existing and any future indebtedness and to fund our planned capital expenditures depends on our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that are often beyond our control, including general economic conditions and financial, competitive and regulatory factors. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash flow to meet our liquidity needs, including making payments on existing and any future indebtedness. The fundamental change redemption rights in our outstanding convertible senior notes could discourage a potential acquirer. If we engage in any transaction or event in connection with which all or substantially all of our common stock is exchanged for, converted into, acquired for or constitutes solely the right to receive, consideration which is not all or substantially all common stock listed on a United States national securities exchange or approved for quotation on the Nasdaq National Market or any similar United States system of automated dissemination of quotations of securities prices, or, if for any reason, our common stock is no longer listed for trading on a United States national securities exchange nor approved for trading on the Nasdaq National Market (a “fundamental change”), we may be required to redeem all or part of the notes and this could discourage a potential acquirer. However, this redemption feature is not the result of management’s knowledge of any specific effort to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer or solicitation, or part of a plan by management to adopt a series of anti-takeover provisions. The term “fundamental change” is limited to specified transactions and may not include other events that might adversely affect our financial condition or business operations. Our obligation to offer to redeem the notes upon a fundamental change would not necessarily afford you protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, merger or similar transaction involving us. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to finance the fundamental change redemption option associated with our outstanding convertible senior notes. If we engage in any transaction or event in connection with which all or substantially all of our common stock is exchanged for, converted into, acquired for or constitutes solely the right to receive consideration which is not all or substantially all common stock listed on a United States national securities exchange or approved for quotation on the Nasdaq National Market or any similar United States system of automated dissemination of quotations of securities prices, or, if for any reason, our common stock is no longer listed for trading on a United States national securities exchange nor approved for trading on the Nasdaq National Market, we may be required to redeem all or part of the notes. We may not have enough funds to pay the redemption price for all tendered notes. In addition, any credit agreement or other agreements relating to our indebtedness may contain provisions prohibiting redemption of the notes under certain circumstances, or expressly prohibit our redemption of the notes upon a designated event or may provide that a designated event constitutes an event of default under that agreement. Our failure to redeem tendered notes would constitute an event of default under the indenture, which might also constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness. 27 Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition or other change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers and directors of Intellisync as of October 17, 2005, are as follows: Name Age Position Woodson Hobbs 58 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director David P. Eichler 56 Chief Financial Officer Clyde Foster 44 Chief Operating Officer Robert Gerber 42 Chief Marketing Officer Blair Hankins 51 Senior Vice President of Technology, Client Development Scott Hrastar 41 Senior Vice President of Technology, Servers and Hosted Services J. Keith Kitchen 42 Chief Accounting Officer and Principal Accounting Officer Michael M. Clair 57 Chairman of the Board, the Compensation Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee and Member of the Audit Committee and the Special Strategy Committee Richard W. Arnold 57 Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Special Strategy Committee and Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Kirsten Berg-Painter 45 Director and Member of the Compensation Committee Keith A. Cornell 45 Director and Member of the Compensation Committee Said Mohammadioun 58 Director Terrence Valeski 58 Director and Member of the Audit Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee Mr. Hobbs became the president and chief executive officer of the Company in June 2002. He has also served as a director of the Company since joining the company. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Hobbs served as a consulting executive for the venture capital community, and as a strategic systems consultant to large corporations. From 1995 to 2002, Mr. Hobbs held the position of interim chief executive officer at the following companies: FaceTime Communications, a provider of instant messaging network-independent business solutions; Tradenable, Inc., an online escrow service company; BigBook, Inc., a pioneer in the online yellow pages industry; and I/PRO Corporation, a leader in quantitative measurement of Web site usage. From 1993 to 1994, Mr. Hobbs served as chief executive officer of Tesseract Corporation, a human resources outsourcing and software company. Mr. Hobbs spent the early part of his career with Charles Schwab Corporation, a securities brokerage and financial service company, as chief information officer and with Service Bureau, a division of International Business Machines Corporation, or IBM, the world’s largest information technology company, as one of the developers and the director of operations of Online Focus, an online credit union system that ultimately served over 20 million members. 28 Mr. Eichler became the chief financial officer of the Company in October 2005. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Eichler was vice president of finance and chief financial officer of SiNett Corporation, an integrated chip and software company in the wireless network market from September 2004 to October 2005. From October 2002 to September 2004, Mr. Eichler was vice president of finance and chief financial officer of Tripath Technology, Inc. a fabless semiconductor company. Mr. Eichler was vice president of finance, chief financial officer and corporate secretary with Gadzoox Networks, Inc., a supplier of storage area networking equipment and software, from March 2001 to May 2002, vice president of finance and administration and chief financial officer with Alliance Semiconductor Corporation, a provider of memory and analog and mixed signal products, from December 1999 to March 2001 and vice president of finance and chief accounting officer with Adobe Systems, Inc., a maker of graphics and publishing software, from December 1997 through December 1998. Mr. Eichler is a certified public accountant and received his BS degree in Accounting from Northeastern University and MBA degree from the University of California Los Angeles. Mr. Foster became the chief operating officer of the Company in July 2004 overseeing corporate operations and the sales of the Company’s products to leading enterprises, OEMs, and wireless operators. Mr. Foster previously served as senior vice president of sales and marketing since joining the Company in September 2002. From July 1999 to September 2002, Mr. Foster served as president and chief executive officer of eConvergent, Inc., a next-generation customer data integration software company. Prior to founding eConvergent, Mr. Foster established and led the Global Solutions Services division of Aspect Communications Corporation, a provider of business communications solutions from April 1996 to June 1999. Previously, Mr. Foster held a variety of sales and professional services management positions during his 14 years at IBM. Mr. Foster holds a BS degree in Mathematics from North Carolina State University. Mr. Gerber became the chief marketing officer, overseeing all marketing, strategy, and e-commerce operations, of the Company in April 2004. Most recently, prior to joining the Company, Mr. Gerber served as managing director and group vice president of Carlson Marketing Group, a relationship marketing company. Mr. Gerber also held a variety of management and consulting positions at Digitas, Inc., an integrated marketing agency, from 2001 to 2004; Deloitte Consulting, a global management consulting firm, from 1992 to 1995; and American Express Company, a diversified worldwide travel, financial, and network services company, from 1987 to 1990. Mr. Gerber is the founder of and led @once, Inc., a private email messaging company, from 1995 to 2000. Previously, Mr. Gerber, served as chief marketing and strategy officer of Commtouch Software Limited, an email infrastructure company. Mr. Gerber holds a BS in engineering degree from the University of Virginia and an MBA degree from Harvard University. Mr. Hankins became the senior vice president of technology, client development, of the Company in October 2005 responsible for ensuring Intellisync’s wireless messaging products offer the best possible user experience for mobile professionals worldwide. Mr. Hankins previously served as vice president of engineering for Witness Systems, Inc, a leading provider of call center workforce optimization software from August 2004 to September 2005. From January 2003 to August 2004, Mr. Hankins was co-founder and served as chief technology officer of Ascendant Technology, LLC, a provider of industry-specific portal based solutions. From September 1989 to December 2002, Mr. Hankins served as a director of messaging solutions division of IBM Corporation. Mr. Hankins holds a BA degree in mathematics from Ohio State University and an MA degree in mathematics from University of Maryland. Mr. Hrastar became the senior vice president of technology, servers and hosted services, of the Company in August 2005. Mr. Hrastar previously served as chief technical officer and vice president of engineering for AirDefense, Inc, a wireless LAN security software vendor from October 2001 to August 2005. From October 2000 to October 2001, Mr. Hrastar was vice president of engineering with Lancope, Inc., a network security intrusion detection software developer. From September 1997 to September 2000, Mr. Hrastar served as vice president of research and advanced technology division of 29 Pathfire, Inc., a digital television distribution software-maker. Mr. Hrastar also served in a variety of engineering positions at Scientific-Atlanta, Inc., a provider of DVR and high-definition set-tops, from 1993 to 1997 and Hitachi-Telecom (USA), Inc., a developer and manufacturer of access systems, high-speed optical networking equipment and customer premises products for the U.S. market, from 1998 to 1993. Mr. Hrastar holds a B.S. degree in electrical engineering from Ohio State University and earned both M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology. Mr. Kitchen became chief accounting officer of the Company upon his resignation as chief financial officer, effective upon the appointment of his successor. Mr. Kitchen has agreed to remain with the Company as the Company’s principal accounting officer for an undetermined amount of time following the appointment of his successor in order to provide transition services to the Company and the newly appointed chief financial officer. Mr. Kitchen served as chief financial officer of the Company from July 2004 to October 2005. Mr. Kitchen also served as vice president of finance and administration and chief accounting officer from August 2002 to July 2004 and also as corporate controller since joining the Company in February 2000 with the Company’s acquisition of NetMind Technologies, Inc., a venture capital-funded Internet software company. Mr. Kitchen joined NetMind in January 1999 as its controller and later became its vice president of finance and administration from July 1999 to February 2000. Mr. Kitchen also served in a variety of financial management positions at Intellect Electronics, Inc., a provider of electronic commerce and smart card solutions, from March 1997 to December 1998, and at Bausch & Lomb, Inc., a global technology based healthcare company, from July 1990 to March 1997. Previously, Mr. Kitchen served as certified public accountant with Ernst & Young LLP, a professional services organization. Mr. Kitchen holds a bachelor of science in business administration degree from Bucknell University and is a graduate of Northwestern University’s Kellogg Graduate School of Management. Mr. Mohammadioun became a director of the Company in December 2003 and most recently served as the Company’s chief technology officer from December 2003 to October 2005. From October 1996 to December 2003, Mr. Mohammadioun served as chief executive officer of Synchrologic, Inc., a provider of mobile infrastructure solutions, which was acquired by Intellisync in December 2003. Previously, Mr. Mohammadioun served as vice-president of Lotus Development Corporation, a provider of knowledge management solutions, from 1990 to 1995. From 1983 to 1990, he was the chief executive officer of Samna Corporation, a word-processing software company founded by Mr. Mohammadioun in 1983. Samna was sold to Lotus Development Corporation in 1990. Mr. Mohammadioun holds a master degree in electrical engineering from Georgia Institute of Technology and an MBA degree from Georgia State University. In October 2005, Mr. Mohammadioun gave notice to the Company of his intention to resign as a member of the Company’s Board of Directors, effective as of the end of his current term, which is scheduled to expire at the Company’s 2005 annual meeting of stockholders. Mr. Clair became a director of the Company in December 1994 and has served as chairman of the board of the Company since March 1995. Since June 1995, Mr. Clair has served as an independent financial consultant. Mr. Clair was a founder of SynOptics Communications (now Nortel Networks), a computer networking company, and from January 1987 to November 1992, served as vice president of sales and marketing and then as senior vice president of sales and customer service of SynOptics. Mr. Clair has more than 30 years of experience in data processing, data and voice communications and local area networking, as well as various wireless technologies. He spent the early part of his career with Tymshare, Inc., a computer time-sharing company, and ROLM, a manufacturer of digital PBX equipment, in a variety of sales and marketing positions. He holds a BS degree in business and an MBA degree from the University of Buffalo. Mr. Clair is a director of several private companies. Mr. Arnold became a director of the Company in May 2004. Since June 2001, Mr. Arnold has served as founding partner of Committed Capital Proprietary Limited, a private equity investment company based in 30 Sydney, Australia. From August 1999 to May 2001, Mr. Arnold served as executive director of Consolidated Press Holdings Limited, also a private investment company based in Sydney. Previously, Mr. Arnold served as managing director of TD Waterhouse Australia, a securities dealer; as chief executive officer of Integrated Decisions and Systems, Inc., an application software company; as managing director of Eagleroo Proprietary Limited, a corporate advisor company; and in various capacities with Charles Schwab & Company., Inc., a securities and financial services brokerage, including serving as chief financial officer and as executive vice president—Strategy and Corporate Development. Mr. Arnold holds a BS degree in psychology from Stanford University. Ms. Berg-Painter became a director of the Company in August 2001. Since November 2000, Ms. Berg-Painter has served as an independent marketing consultant. From July 1998 to October 2000, Ms. Berg-Painter served as senior vice president of worldwide marketing at Clarify, Inc., an enterprise customer relationship management, or CRM, company. From 1989 to 1998, Ms. Berg-Painter served in various capacities with Aspect Communications Corporation, a provider of customer relationship portals, last serving as general manager and vice president of one of its product divisions. Previously, Ms. Berg-Painter served as director of product marketing for AST Research, Inc., a personal computer manufacturer, and as director of marketing for Syntellect, Inc., a provider of call-center technology and hosted service solutions. Ms. Berg-Painter began her career at IBM where she held various systems engineering and marketing positions. She holds a BA degree in business and economics from University of California, Los Angeles and attended business school at Norges Handelshøyskolen in Bergen, Norway. Mr. Cornell is a UK chartered director and became a director of the Company in May 2005. Since 2002, Mr. Cornell has served as chief executive officer of Empower Interactive Ltd., a private specialized messaging platform company working globally with mobile operators. From 2001 to 2002, Mr. Cornell served as president of British Telecom Wireless plc., a mobile telecommunications company, for its Europe operations and in the same position in its spin-off, O2. Between May and October 2001, he served as interim chief executive officer for British Telecom’s Viag Intercom unit in Germany. From 1999 to 2001, Mr. Cornell worked for Firstmark Communications, a Pan-European broadband company, as a senior vice president of business development. From 1995 to 1999, Mr. Cornell served in various capacities including as executive director and vice president of international operations with Vodafone Airtouch International, Ltd. Previously, Mr. Cornell served as director or senior manager for various companies including Airtouch Communications, Inc., a wireless communications company, and Marakon Associates, a value-based strategy consultancy firm. He holds a BS degree in engineering from Harvey Mudd College and an MBA degree from Carnegie Mellon University. Mr. Valeski became a director of the Company in May 2005. From 2000 to 2005, Mr. Valeski served as chief executive officer and managing director of Eurotel Praha, a leading provider of wireless voice and data services in the Czech Republic. From 1997 to November 2000, Mr. Valeski served in various capacities with British Telecommunications plc (BT), a United Kingdom telecommunications company, as director for mobile marketing outside UK and later as chief operating officer and chief marketing officer for BT’s other divisions or joint ventures such as Telfort, Blu and BT Wireless in Holland and Italy. From 1994 to 1997, Mr. Valeski worked for Pacific Bell Mobile Services, a diversified telecommunications company, as a senior vice president and later as president and general manager. Previously, Mr. Valeski served as senior vice president of sales and marketing for various companies including Atari Corporation, a manufacturer of video games; Mattel, Inc., the world’s largest toy company; Teledyne WaterPik, Inc., a diversified manufacturing company; and J. Walter Thompson Company, a New York-based advertising agency. He holds an EA degree in liberal arts from the University of Arizona. Mr. Valeski is a director of several private companies. 31 ITEM 