Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business may suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this report. There may be additional risks faced by our business. Our vaccine programs are in an early stage of development. Our vaccine programs are in an early stage of development and there is a high risk of failure. We will be required to perform extensive preclinical and clinical testing before any product candidate can be submitted for regulatory approval prior to commercialization. Clinical testing is very expensive, takes many years, and the outcome is uncertain. Failure to demonstrate the safety or efficacy of a product candidate in preclinical studies or clinical trials would delay or prevent regulatory approval of that product candidate. Our potential vaccine products must meet rigorous testing standards in order to advance to clinical testing. No product candidates employing either our Listeria or our KBMA platform technologies have been tested in humans, and preclinical data in animal studies and from in vitro experiments may not be predictive of clinical safety and efficacy once product candidates are tested in humans. Our immunotherapy product candidates are unlikely to be used as single agents for the treatment of cancer or infectious diseases, but rather in combination with other drugs and treatment regimens. Testing our vaccines in combination with other drugs and treatment regimens in clinical trials will introduce additional clinical, timeline and regulatory risks and complexities, including added expense, delay in conducting clinical trials and uncertain regulatory requirements. Naturally-occurring Listeria is a bacterium that is a human pathogen that can cause serious illness. Our immunotherapy product candidates for cancer indications use proprietary, modified strains of Listeria that are designed to have a substantially reduced ability to cause illness in humans. However, before our vaccine candidates can be accepted for clinical testing, we must successfully complete a number of preclinical safety studies. We may not be able to identify a dose range in which our product candidates are therapeutically effective and yet maintain adequate safety margins. We have filed an IND for our first vaccine candidate, CRS-100, and have obtained clearance from FDA to proceed with a Phase I, dose-escalation clinical trial. We have not yet received approval by any institutional review board (IRB) at a participating clinical site. Clearance of a Phase I clinical trial using CRS-100 does not imply concurrence by FDA to our conducting later stage studies with CRS-100 and does not imply clearance for clinical trials of our other Listeria vaccine candidates expressing antigens, such as CRS-207. Our Phase I clinical trial for CRS-100 involves testing in a patient population with advanced disease. We may be unable to test CRS-100 and our other product candidates in subsequent trials in patient populations that we believe may be better suited clinically or commercially to our vaccines. Because our vaccine candidates use novel platforms, the FDA or foreign regulators may require studies that we have not anticipated. In addition, we have contracted with third-party manufacturers to produce our vaccines 14 Table of Contents for research, preclinical and clinical testing. We have manufactured CRS-100 for toxicology studies and Phase I clinical trials, but have not engaged in scale-up of the manufacturing process or the development of a commercial formulation. We rely on third parties to conduct aspects of preclinical development on our behalf, including contract manufacturing and research services. These third parties may encounter delays, over which we have significantly less control than research and development activities performed in-house, or experience unexpected results. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the preclinical research and development process that could delay or prevent clinical testing, regulatory approval and commercialization of our potential products. Our ability to successfully develop cancer and infectious disease products is dependent in part on being able to attract and retain partners and collaborators, as well as governmental funding sources. The development and commercialization of product candidates employing our Listeria and KBMA platform technologies will be expensive, lengthy and uncertain. To date, we have relied not only upon internal scientific, development and financial resources, but also upon third parties. We have licensed our Listeria platform to MedImmune for use in developing a product candidate for certain cancers. We are collaborating with investigators at Johns Hopkins on other cancer and infectious disease programs. We also rely on advice and insights from our scientific advisory board, a group of independent clinicians, professors and investigators, regarding our research and development activities. These relationships provide us with external perspectives and independent validation that may be critical to our future success. Loss of these relationships or failure to attract others may result in additional expense, delays in development and regulatory approval and failure to commercialize products. We have received significant funding from U.S. government agencies for research and development in both cancer and infectious disease, as well as funding from MedImmune under our license agreement relating to development of MEDI-543 (EphA2). Due to budgetary constraints, funding from the Federal government, particularly funding from the Department of Defense and National Institutes of Health, is expected to be reduced from prior years and is subject to political and economic forces beyond our control. Federal funding in support of our programs to develop prophylactic vaccines against anthrax and tularemia is not expected to lead to substantial commercial opportunities beyond potential biodefense applications, and we cannot be certain that the research conducted into those two infectious diseases will readily translate into applications with greater commercial potential. Loss of funding from government sources and third parties would require us to reduce the scope of our research and development efforts in immunotherapeutics, narrowing the number of programs to those we could support through internal resources. If our preclinical and clinical data are not considered sufficient by regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval, we will be unable to commercialize our products and generate revenue. Except for the INTERCEPT Blood System for platelets, or platelet system, which has received CE mark approval and regulatory approval in certain countries in Europe, we have no products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale and are being marketed. Our product candidates are in various stages of development, and we face the risks of failure inherent in developing medical devices and biotechnology products based on new technologies. Our product candidates must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before the FDA and international regulatory authorities can approve them for commercial use. We must provide the FDA and international regulatory authorities with preclinical, clinical and manufacturing data that demonstrate our products are safe, effective and in compliance with government regulations before the products can be approved for commercial sale. In 2002, the platelet system received CE mark approval in Europe. We will need to complete validation studies and obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals in certain European countries before we can market our products in those countries. Further randomized clinical trials funded by third parties will be conducted in some European countries, such as the Netherlands. We expect to conduct many smaller scale experience trials with prospective customers in a number of European countries. We expect that decisions to adopt the platelet system may be deferred until completion of the additional trials and experience studies in Europe and 15 Table of Contents reimbursement rates are set. In certain countries, including England and Germany, the system must be approved for purchase or use by a specific governmental or non-governmental entity or entities, such as the Paul Ehrlich Institute in Germany, after which reimbursement rates will need to be determined. In France, the platelet system has been approved for use by blood centers in treating platelets; however, we do not expect to sell the platelet system to commercial customers until we have successfully completed certain experience studies and national reimbursement levels have been set. We completed our Phase III clinical trial of the platelet system in the United States in March 2001 and have submitted data from this trial, along with several other modules of our pre-market approval application, to the FDA. Based on discussions with the FDA, we performed an additional blinded analysis of the clinical trial data, under the direction of an independent expert physician panel, to determine if apparent differences between treatment groups in the category of pulmonary adverse events reported in the study were attributable to inconsistent event reporting. The reassessment of primary patient records by the expert physician panel showed no statistically significant differences between groups. This reassessment differed from the earlier analysis of adverse events that was based on clinical trial case report forms, which showed statistically significant differences in specific pulmonary events. We submitted a report of the analysis to the FDA for review. The report included conclusions from the expert physician panel. Even if the results of this analysis are satisfactory to the FDA, we expect the FDA to require a supplemental clinical trial to evaluate the hemostatic efficacy and safety of the platelet system, prepared using our final commercial product design, as compared to conventional platelets. The supplemental clinical trial would need to be completed and data from the trial submitted to the FDA before we could complete our regulatory submission. The FDA may not find the results of the expert physician panel analysis or data from any additional clinical trials to be acceptable for approval. Before we begin a supplemental clinical trial, we will need to gain concurrence with the FDA on our trial design. We may not be able to reach concurrence on the size, scope or design of the study. We have completed Phase IIIa, Phase IIIb and Phase IIIc clinical trials of the INTERCEPT Blood System for plasma, or plasma system, in the United States, reports for which were filed with the FDA during 2005. Baxter and we submitted a CE mark application for regulatory approval in Europe of the plasma system in December 2005. We have not submitted any applications for regulatory approval of the plasma system in the United States or any other regions other than Europe. In some countries, including those in Europe, we may be required to perform additional clinical studies using the commercial configuration of the system in order to obtain regulatory approval. Failure to pursue regulatory approval of the plasma system in the U.S. due to strategic priorities may have adverse consequences on market acceptance of the INTERCEPT Blood System globally. As a result of the termination of Phase III clinical trials of our red blood cell system due to the detection of antibodies in two patients, we have been conducting additional research activities on our red blood cell system to determine if the system can be reconfigured to reduce the potential for antibody reactivity to treated red blood cells. Based upon an internal evaluation of the results to date from these additional research activities and after consulting with regulatory authorities, we have elected to initiate new Phase I trials in 2006 in the United States using a modified red blood cell system before potentially progressing to later-stage clinical trials. We will utilize a manual processing system in Phase I trials, which system is not in a commercially feasible form. A number of process and product design issues that could impact efficacy and market acceptance will need to be resolved prior to the initiation of clinical trials and while those clinical trials are being conducted. These include development of a commercially feasible red blood cell system, including disposables, hardware and software for implementing the process in blood collection centers. A delay in completing such activities could result in a delay in initiating Phase I trials or progressing to later stage trials. If we are unsuccessful in advancing a modified red blood cell system through clinical trials, resolving process and product design issues or in obtaining subsequent regulatory approvals and acceptable reimbursement rates, we may never realize a return on our development expenses incurred to date in the red blood cell system program. Clinical trials in particular are expensive and have a high risk of failure. Any of our product candidates may fail in the testing phase or may not achieve results sufficient to attain market acceptance, which could prevent us from achieving profitability. 16 Table of Contents It may take us several years to complete our clinical testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Enrollment criteria for certain of our clinical trials may be quite narrow. Consequently, we may be unable to recruit suitable patients into the trial on a timely basis, if at all. We cannot rely on interim results of trials to predict their final results, and acceptable results in early trials might not be repeated in later trials. Any trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical study or clinical trial or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial to be repeated, require other studies to be performed or cause a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to a program are successful. The INTERCEPT Blood System may not achieve broad market acceptance. Under our previous agreements, Baxter’s sales and marketing organization had made only modest progress in commercializing the platelet system in European countries where it has been fully approved for sale. Despite CE mark approval, Baxter had encountered governmental and blood banking community resistance to commercial adoption, including concerns from some national transfusion services, governmental agencies and healthcare policy groups regarding efficacy, cost and risk-benefit profile. Some potential customers have indicated that further safety information or additional studies would be required before adopting our products. There is some volume loss in the yield of blood products as a result of our pathogen inactivation process. In addition, our platelet system process today is not fully compatible with the common practice of collecting two units of platelets from a single apheresis donor. If the volumetric reduction of blood product leads to increased costs, or our process requires changes in blood center or clinical regimens, customers may not adopt our platelet system product. Our products do not inactivate all known pathogens, and the inability of our systems to inactivate certain pathogens may limit their acceptance. For logistical and financial reasons, the transfusion industry has not always integrated new technologies into their processes, even those with the potential to improve the safety of the blood supply. Our products may require significant changes to our potential customers’ space and staffing requirements and require significant capital investment. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval for commercial sale, blood centers, physicians, patients and healthcare payors may not believe that the benefits of using the INTERCEPT Blood System justify their additional cost. If customers experience operational or technical problems with the use of INTERCEPT Blood System products, market acceptance may be reduced. For example, if adverse events arise from incomplete inactivation of pathogens, improper processing or user error, or if testing of INTERCEPT Blood System-treated blood samples fails to reliably confirm pathogen inactivation, whether or not directly attributable to a shortcoming of the INTERCEPT Blood System, customers may refrain from purchasing the products. Market acceptance of our products may also be affected by the availability of reimbursement from governments, managed care payors, such as insurance companies, or other third parties. We have no experience negotiating reimbursement of medical products. In many cases, due to the structure of the blood products industry, we will have little control over reimbursement discussions, which occur between the blood center and its payors. It is difficult to predict the reimbursement status of newly approved, novel medical device or biopharmaceutical products. In certain foreign markets, governments have issued regulations relating to the pricing and profitability of medical products and medical products companies. There also have been proposals in the United States, at both the federal and state government level, to implement such controls. The widespread adoption of managed care in the United States has also placed pressure on the pricing of medical products. These pressures can be expected to continue and may limit the prices we can obtain for our products. We may be required to reduce the sales price for our products, which would reduce and may eliminate our gross profit on sales. At our present low unit sales levels of the platelet system, our costs to manufacture and sell the platelet system are in excess of revenue. We may be unable to increase sales to a level sufficient to generate profits. We believe that future product sales in Europe and other regions may be negatively affected because we do not have FDA approval for any of our products. If the INTERCEPT Blood System products fail to achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. 17 Table of Contents The market for the INTERCEPT Blood System is highly concentrated with few customers, including often-dominant regional or national blood collection entities. Even if our products receive regulatory approval and reimbursement is available, failure to properly market, price or sell our products to any of these large customers could significantly diminish potential product revenue in those geographies. The market for our pathogen inactivation systems in the United States is highly concentrated, dominated by a small number of blood collection organizations. In many countries in Western Europe and in Japan, various national blood transfusion services or Red Cross organizations collect, store and distribute virtually all of their respective nation’s blood and blood components supply. In Europe, the largest markets for our products are in England, Germany and France. Decisions on product adoption are centralized in England. In Germany, decisions on product adoption are expected to be on a blood center-by-blood center basis. We have not received in-country approvals to market our platelet system in England or Germany, nor has reimbursement been established in France. The National Blood Service has not yet indicated an interest in implementing our platelet system due to what we understand to be cost-benefit considerations. The Japanese Red Cross controls a significant majority of blood transfusions in Japan. If approvals are not obtained to market our products in these countries, or if the products are not adopted in these countries, our potential product revenue will be significantly decreased. We will need to develop and test additional configurations of the INTERCEPT Blood System products to address the entire market. Our efforts to develop the platelet system for use in the United States have focused almost entirely on apheresis platelets collected on Baxter’s automated collection platform. Apheresis platelets are platelets that are collected from a single donor using an automated collection machine. Currently, we estimate that the majority of platelets used in the United States are collected by apheresis, though a significant minority is prepared from pooled random donor platelets derived from whole blood collections. Blood centers in the United States preparing pooled random donor platelets may be reluctant to switch to apheresis collection. The FDA may require us to make our systems compatible with random donor platelets. In order to develop a platelet pathogen inactivation system compatible with random donor platelets, we will need to perform additional product development and testing, including additional clinical trials. These development activities would increase our costs significantly, and may not be successful. In addition, FDA regulations limit to four hours the time from pooling to transfusion to minimize the proliferation of bacterial contamination in the pooled product. The FDA’s time limit between pooling and transfusion currently precludes the use of our system with pooled random donor platelets. Although our system is designed to reduce the risk of bacterial contamination, we cannot predict whether the FDA would remove this process time constraint to allow our system to be used with pooled random donor platelets, and we have not yet made a request for the FDA to do so. Our products, blood products treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System and we are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign authorities. Our products under development, and anticipated future products, are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by local, state and federal regulatory authorities in the United States and by foreign regulatory bodies. These regulations are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: • development; • testing; • manufacturing; • labeling; • storage; • pre-market clearance or approval; • sales and distribution; • use standards and documentation; 18 Table of Contents • post-launch surveillance; • advertising and promotion; and • reimbursement. The FDA and other agencies in the United States and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the manufacturing and marketing of products such as those we are developing. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is long, expensive and uncertain, and typically takes a number of years, depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the product. We may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure necessary approvals or licenses, or we may not be successful at all. Before the FDA determines whether to approve the INTERCEPT Blood System products, we expect our approval applications to be reviewed by the Blood Products Advisory Committee, or BPAC, an advisory committee convened by and reporting to the FDA. BPAC will make a recommendation to the FDA for, or against, approval. Even if BPAC were to recommend approval of one or more of our products, the FDA would not necessarily approve those products. If BPAC were to recommend against approval of one or more of our products, it is likely that the FDA would not approve those products. Product candidates in our immunotherapy programs beyond CRS-100 will be subject to review by the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee of the National Institutes of Health, which could delay initiation of clinical trials. If our product candidates receive approval for commercial sale, their marketing and manufacturing will be subject to continuing FDA and other regulatory requirements, such as requirements to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice. The failure to comply with these requirements could result in delaying or precluding commercialization efforts in certain geographies, including the United States, and could result in enforcement action, which could harm our business. Gaining FDA approval for our platelet and plasma products will require additional investment and time, because the current manufacturing sites we rely upon for producing the platelet and plasma system products for European distribution are not FDA-qualified facilities. Regulatory authorities may also require post-marketing testing, which can involve significant expense. Because of the limited duration and number of patients receiving blood components treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System products in clinical trials, it is possible that harmful effects of our products not observed in clinical and preclinical testing could be discovered in later stage clinical trials or after a marketing approval has been received. Later discovery of problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in additional restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Governments or regulatory authorities may impose new regulations or other changes that could further delay or preclude regulatory approval of our potential products. We cannot predict the impact of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action. Distribution of our products outside the United States also is subject to extensive government regulation. These regulations vary by country, including the requirements for approvals or clearance to market, the time required for regulatory review and the sanctions imposed for violations. In addition to European Union-level approval, we must obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals in some individual European countries, including France, Germany and England, to market our products. In addition, our customers in many countries must obtain regulatory approval to sell blood components treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System. The level of additional product testing varies by country, but could take a long time to complete. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in reduced revenue and earnings. To support our requests for regulatory approval to market our product candidates, we have conducted and intend to conduct various types of studies including: • toxicology studies to evaluate product safety; • laboratory and animal studies to evaluate product effectiveness; 19 Table of Contents • human clinical trials to evaluate the safety, tolerability and effectiveness of treated blood components or immunotherapies; and • manufacturing and stability studies. We have conducted many toxicology studies to demonstrate the INTERCEPT Blood System product candidates’ safety, and we plan to conduct toxicology studies for our vaccine candidates and red blood cell system throughout the product development process. At any time, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may require further toxicology or other studies to further demonstrate our products’ safety, which could delay commercialization. We believe the FDA and other regulatory authorities are likely to weigh the potential risks of using our pathogen inactivation products against the incremental benefits, which may be less compelling in light of improved safety in the blood supply. In addition, our clinical development plan assumes that we will not be required to perform human clinical studies to demonstrate the INTERCEPT Blood System product candidates’ ability to inactivate pathogens. Although we have discussed this plan with the FDA and other regulatory authorities, they may find it unacceptable at any time and may require human clinical trials to demonstrate efficacy in inactivating pathogens. Trials of this type may be too large and expensive to be practical. Preclinical testing and clinical trials involving our immunotherapy product candidates are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Neither our Listeria nor our KBMA platform technologies have been tested in humans. Consequently, preclinical results in animals and in vitro testing may not translate to demonstration of safety and efficacy in human clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advancing stages of clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier preclinical and clinical trials. In addition, regulators and investigators may impose more stringent, time consuming and expensive clinical trial requirements than we might otherwise choose to pursue as a precondition to proceeding with clinical testing. It may take us or our collaborators several years to complete this testing, and failure can occur at any stage of the process. We do not know whether we or our collaborators will begin planned clinical trials on schedule, if at all. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially impact our clinical trials. We also do not know whether planned clinical trials will need to be revamped or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Criteria for regulatory approval in cancer and infectious disease indications are evolving with competitive advances in the standard of care against which new product candidates are judged, as well as with changing market needs and reimbursement levels. Clinical trial design, including enrollment criteria, endpoints, and anticipated label claims are thus subject to change, even if original objectives are being met. In addition to the reasons stated above, clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a study, delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study agreement terms with prospective clinical sites, delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective clinical site and delays in recruiting subjects to participate in a study. We do not know whether any clinical trials will result in marketable products. Typically, there is a high rate of failure for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials. We do not anticipate that any of our immunotherapy product candidates will reach the market for several years. Delays can also materially impact our product development costs. If we experience delays in testing or approvals, our product development costs will increase. For example, we may need to repeat clinical trials to address regulatory or clinical questions. We may also need to make additional payments to third-party investigators and organizations to retain their services or we may need to pay recruitment incentives. If the delays are significant, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to become profitable will be delayed. Regulatory agencies may limit the uses, or indications, for which any of our products are approved. For example, we believe that the INTERCEPT Blood System products will be able to claim the inactivation of particular pathogens only to the extent we have laboratory or animal data to support such claims. After regulatory approval for the initial indications, further clinical trials may be necessary to gain approval for the use of the product for additional indications. 20 Table of Contents In addition to the regulatory requirements applicable to us and to our products, there are regulatory requirements applicable to our prospective customers of INTERCEPT Blood System products, the blood centers that process and distribute blood and blood products. Blood centers and others will likely be required to obtain approved license supplements from the FDA or European regulatory authorities before using products processed with our pathogen inactivation systems. This requirement or regulators’ delays in approving these supplements may deter some blood centers from using our products. Blood centers that do submit supplements may face disapproval or delays in approval that could provide further delay or deter them from using our products. The regulatory impact on potential customers could slow or limit the potential sales of our products. We can no longer rely upon Baxter for sales, marketing, distribution and regulatory support of the INTERCEPT Blood System products. Upon reaching agreements with Baxter in February 2006, we became fully responsible for sales, marketing and distribution support of the INTERCEPT Blood System worldwide, except in those Asian territories covered by our agreements with BioOne for the platelet and plasma systems. As a consequence, we can no longer rely upon Baxter for sales, marketing and distribution support of the INTERCEPT Blood System. Further, the 2006 agreements require that Baxter will provide regulatory support for the INTERCEPT Blood System only through the end of 2006, after which time we can no longer rely on such support from Baxter. We have been particularly dependent on Baxter in Europe, where the platelet system has been approved for sale in certain countries. We will also be dependent on Baxter to transfer know-how relevant to the INTERCEPT Blood System. While the most recent agreements with Baxter call for a transition period in 2006 during which time Baxter will make available, generally at our expense, certain human and organizational resources on an as needed basis, we will need to develop internal competencies in sales, marketing, distribution and regulatory support or arrange for third parties to provide certain of these necessary services in the near future. • We have relied on Baxter for marketing, sales, distribution, customer service and back office functions for certain products and regions. We currently have a small scientific affairs group that has helped support Baxter’s marketing organization; however, we have not maintained our own independent sales and marketing organization. We may be unable to maintain existing customer relationships established by Baxter as we take on responsibility for sales, marketing and customer service. Beginning in early 2006, we began to recruit a small sales force dedicated to selling and marketing the platelet system and, if approved, the plasma system, in Europe. We may be unable to recruit suitable sales, marketing, regulatory, quality and back office personnel on a timely basis, if at all. As we reduce our operational reliance on Baxter, we will also need to develop distribution, customer service, and back office capabilities either internally or by contracting with third parties, which we may be unable to accomplish on a timely or affordable basis. Developing sales, marketing and operational capabilities ourselves will increase our costs and may delay commercialization of our pathogen inactivation systems. • We have relied on Baxter for regulatory support for certain products and regions. Under our 2006 agreements, we will take on worldwide responsibility for regulatory activities regarding the INTERCEPT Blood System, except in territories covered by our agreement with BioOne for the platelet and plasma systems, provided that Baxter remains as the registrant or applicant under European registrations and applications for a transition period in 2006. We do not currently have the appropriate resources to support regulatory activities relating to these products. We currently lack the resources and capabilities to respond appropriately to customer complaints or required regulatory reporting of adverse events arising from the use of the platelet system. We will need to increase our regulatory resources or contract with independent regulatory consultants, which may result in increased costs and may potentially delay regulatory filings. Delays or inabilities to complete regulatory filings and obtain approvals will also delay or prevent us from earning milestone payments from BioOne, and from being able to recognize sales of our products and attaining profitability. Our agreements with Baxter require that Baxter transfer to us European regulatory registrations for the platelet system and European regulatory applications for the platelet and plasma systems once we have obtained necessary regulatory certification of our quality systems. An audit of our quality systems by European regulators is a 21 Table of Contents prerequisite to such regulatory certification. Any delay in obtaining such certification would result in a delay in obtaining regulatory approval of the plasma system in Europe and may have other adverse consequences. There may be unforeseen adverse consequences in making this transition if regulatory agencies view the change negatively, which in turn may lead to potential delays in approvals. We will continue to rely on Baxter for manufacturing and supplying components of our platelet and plasma systems for a limited period of time. We are also relying on Baxter to complete certain development activities relating to the plasma system. Over a longer period, we will need to identify, select and qualify third party sources of supply for the INTERCEPT Blood System, including the INTERCEPT red blood cell system. • We currently rely on Baxter for manufacturing and supplying components of our systems. Under the terms of our agreements, Baxter is currently responsible for manufacturing and supplying certain components and devices of the INTERCEPT Blood System for development and commercial use through 2008. If Baxter fails to manufacture and supply an adequate supply of components or devices, we will be required to identify other component manufacturers. We may be unable to identify such manufacturers on a timely basis or enter into contracts with such manufacturers on reasonable terms, if at all. Any delay in the availability of devices or components from Baxter could delay further regulatory approvals, market introduction and subsequent sales of the systems. Moreover, the inclusion of components manufactured by others could require us to seek new approvals from regulatory authorities, which could result in delays in product delivery. We may not receive any such required regulatory approvals. Baxter manufactures our platelet and plasma systems and only limited components for our red blood cell system in facilities that are not FDA-approved. Our agreements do not require Baxter to validate these manufacturing facilities with the FDA. In order to be sold in the United States, our systems would be required to be manufactured in an FDA-approved facility. FDA validation of a manufacturing facility, whether owned by Baxter or by another party, will be costly and time-consuming. Because of low sales volumes and other reasons, Baxter’s costs to manufacture commercial components for the platelet system are greater than we previously anticipated and may continue to rise. This will reduce our potential gross profit margin from European platelet system sales. Under the terms of our agreements, Baxter has committed to conduct certain development activities for the plasma system that are necessary for CE mark approval of the disposable set and CE mark self-declaration for the UVA illuminator. If such activities are not completed in a timely manner, our CE mark submission and self-declaration for the plasma system will be delayed. • Baxter may assign its agreements with us to third parties. It has been reported that Baxter is seeking to sell the business unit that performs Baxter’s obligations under our agreements. We do not control, and cannot predict, whether, when or to whom the business unit may be sold. The business unit may be sold to an existing industry participant, including a strategic partner or a competitor, or to a private equity firm. While the assignment provision of our February 2006 agreement provides that the agreement may be assigned only to an assignee that assumes all of Baxter’s obligations under the agreement and has capability to perform the obligations, the acquirer of the business unit may fail to manufacture or supply an adequate supply of components or devices of the INTERCEPT Blood System, which would subject us to the risks described above. All references to “Baxter” in these Risk Factors should be read, as to future contingencies, to include any assignee of Baxter’s obligations under our agreements. • We will be required to identify and enter into agreements with third parties to manufacture the INTERCEPT Blood System products and related blood component storage solutions. Baxter’s manufacturing responsibilities for certain components of the platelet and plasma systems in general extend through 2008, after which we will assume manufacturing responsibilities. Except for very limited manufacturing of disposable components, Baxter is no longer obligated to provide manufacturing services related to the INTERCEPT red blood cells system, or red blood cell system, at all. We will need to identify parties to provide those manufacturing services related to our red blood cell system at all. It may be difficult to enter into these types of agreements on reasonable terms. In particular, it will be time-consuming for other manufacturers to develop the capability to manufacture the INTERCEPT 22 Table of Contents Blood System products and blood component storage solutions economically and to gain regulatory approval to do so for commercial use. We may be unable to identify and contract with manufacturers that can make our products cost-effectively, which would delay our efforts to commercialize our products. The platelet system is not compatible with platelet collection platforms and platelet storage solutions manufactured by others. The equipment and materials used to collect platelets vary from manufacturer to manufacturer. Our system for platelets is designed to work with platelets collected using a proprietary platelet storage solution, called Intersol, and, for platelets collected by apheresis, is fully compatible only with Baxter’s apheresis platelet collection system. We have conducted our clinical studies for the platelet system using only Baxter’s equipment and materials. Baxter may not make its apheresis collection system available for sale in certain countries and has elected to discontinue sales efforts for its apheresis collection system in Japan. Under an agreement with Haemonetics Corporation, or Haemonetics, Baxter has agreed to provide Haemonetics with Intersol, with the objective that platelets collected on certain Haemonetics apheresis collection equipment may be directly treated using our platelet system. Making the Haemonetics apheresis collection system readily compatible with our platelet system will require certain changes in the Haemonetics device, and there can be no assurance that Haemonetics will undertake this effort on a timely basis or be commercially successful. Gambro, Inc., or Gambro, another major supplier of automated platelet collection systems, is conducting clinical trials of its own system for pathogen inactivation of platelets. For competitive reasons, Gambro may have little or no incentive to make its apheresis collection system compatible with our platelet system. Attaining compatibility with collection platforms and platelet storage solutions manufactured by others would require adaptations to either our platelet system or to the collection platforms, which may be difficult to engineer, expensive to implement and test, require additional clinical trials, cause delays in regulatory approval and/or be commercially unattractive to pursue. These development activities will increase our costs significantly, and may not be successful. Market acceptance of the platelet system in the United States and other countries may be delayed until the system receives regulatory approval for use on such other equipment. Because the INTERCEPT Blood System products have not been manufactured on more than a limited commercial scale, we face manufacturing uncertainties that could limit their commercialization. If our third-party manufacturers fail to produce our products or compounds satisfactorily and in sufficient quantities, we may incur delays, shortfalls and additional expenses, which may in turn result in permanent harm to our customer relations. The INTERCEPT Blood System products, including many of the components, have never been manufactured on a commercial scale. We intend to use third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of the chemical compounds to be used in our products. These compounds have not yet been produced in quantities sufficient to support commercialization for all regions in which we may market our products. We have an agreement with a manufacturer to produce commercial quantities of amotosalen, a proprietary compound used in our platelet and plasma systems. We currently do not have any third-party manufacturing agreements in place for commercial production of compounds used in our red blood cell system. Any additional commercial manufacturer will need to develop new methods and processes to manufacture these compounds on a commercial scale and demonstrate to us, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that its commercial scale manufacturing processes comply with government regulations. It may be difficult or impossible to economically manufacture our products on a commercial scale. Baxter is responsible for manufacturing and assembling our platelet and plasma systems and Intersol products through 2008. Baxter relies on third parties to manufacture and assemble some of the system components, many of which are customized and have not been manufactured on a commercial scale. Baxter has produced some pathogen inactivation systems in modest commercial quantities, but may not be able to manufacture and assemble other systems or in larger quantities, or do so economically. If Baxter (or Cerus after 23 Table of Contents 2008) or our third-party manufacturers fail to produce our products or Intersol products satisfactorily and in sufficient quantities, we may incur delays, shortfalls and additional expenses, which may in turn result in permanent harm to our customer relations. In the United States, studies related to the platelet system disposable and compound manufacturing need to be completed and included in FDA submissions before the FDA would consider the applications for approval. Baxter purchases certain key components of the pathogen inactivation systems from a limited number of suppliers. Contracts for the long-term supply of certain components have not yet been signed. It would be expensive and time-consuming to establish additional or replacement suppliers for these components. If Baxter (or Cerus after 2008) is unable to find adequate suppliers for these components, we may be required to redesign the systems, which could lead to additional testing and clinical trials. If we were required to redesign the products, our development costs would increase, and our programs could be delayed significantly. We will continue to rely on Baxter for transition services. Over a longer period, we will need to perform these services ourselves or identify one or more alternative third party providers. Under the terms of our February 2006 agreement, Baxter is required to provide certain transition services relating to European activities, at our expense. These services included specified regulatory and clinical support activities, installation, maintenance and calibration services until December 31, 2006, clinical education and training until December 31, 2006 and manufacturing technical information and advice until December 31, 2008. If Baxter fails to provide these services, we may be unable to assume these functions ourselves or identify alternative third party providers on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, if at all. Any delay in these activities could delay further regulatory approvals, market introduction and subsequent sales of the systems. We have used prototype components in our preclinical studies and clinical trials in the United States and have not completed the components’ commercial design. The system disposables and instruments we used in many of our preclinical studies and clinical trials in the United States were prototypes of those to be used in the final products. As a result, we plan to perform studies, both preclinical and clinical, to demonstrate the acceptability of the commercial configuration and the equivalence of the prototypes and the commercial products’ design. However, regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional studies, both preclinical and clinical, using the commercial versions of the systems, which may increase our expenses and delay the commercialization of our products. If we fail to develop commercial versions of the INTERCEPT Blood System on schedule, our potential revenue would be delayed or diminished and our competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do. In addition, the design and engineering effort required to complete the final commercial product is substantial and time-consuming. As with any complex development effort, we expect to encounter design, engineering and manufacturing issues. Such issues have previously arisen, sometimes unexpectedly, and solutions to these issues have not always been readily forthcoming. Additional unforeseen design, engineering and manufacturing issues may arise in the future, which could increase the development cost and delay commercialization of our products. We rely on BioOne for commercialization of our platelet and plasma systems in many Asian countries. Baxter and we have licensed rights to commercialization of the platelet and plasma systems in Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea, Vietnam, Thailand, and Singapore to BioOne. BioOne is solely responsible for obtaining regulatory approvals, marketing and selling the platelet and plasma systems in those countries. Because we only have a minority investment interest in BioOne, we lack the ability to significantly influence BioOne, and are dependent on BioOne’s performance to realize milestone and royalty revenue from commercialization of our platelet and plasma systems in those countries. In Japan, regulatory authorities may require a product to be approved by the FDA before it is considered for approval in Japan, which would delay or prevent BioOne from 24 Table of Contents achieving significant product sales. If BioOne is not successful, we will not receive milestone or royalty revenue derived from platelet or plasma system sales in those countries and the value of our equity in BioOne may be lost. There is no assurance that BioOne will be able to attract additional required capital to successfully commercialize those products licensed from Baxter and us. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our product candidates or fail in human clinical trials, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. We expect our products to encounter significant competition. The INTERCEPT Blood System products may compete with other approaches to blood safety currently in use, as well as with future products developed by others. Our success will depend in part on our ability to respond quickly to medical and technological changes brought about by the development and introduction of new products. Product development is risky and uncertain, and we cannot assure you that we will develop our products successfully. Competitors’ products or technologies may make our products obsolete or non-competitive before we are able to generate any significant revenue. In addition, competitors or potential competitors may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. They may also have greater experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials and other regulatory approval procedures. Several companies are developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for products that will directly compete with or reduce the market for our pathogen inactivation systems. A number of companies are specifically focusing on alternative strategies for pathogen inactivation in platelets and plasma. In Europe, several companies, including Grifols, Octapharma AG and Maco Pharma International GmbH, are developing or have developed commercial pathogen inactivation systems to treat fresh frozen plasma. Navigant, a wholly owned subsidiary of Gambro, is developing a pathogen inactivation system for blood products. New methods of testing blood for specific pathogens have been approved by the FDA and in Europe, as have tests for bacteria in platelets. Continued delays in commercialization of the platelet system in France and Germany may impact our ability to compete with bacterial testing for platelets. Tests have now been approved to detect West Nile Virus in blood products. Other groups are developing synthetic blood product substitutes and products to stimulate the growth of platelets. Development of any of these technologies could impair the potential market for our products. There are many companies pursuing programs for the treatment of cancer and treatment and prevention of infectious disease. Some are large pharmaceutical companies, such as Sanofi-Aventis, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Genentech and Gilead, which have greater experience and resources in product development, preclinical testing, human clinical trials, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals and in manufacturing and marketing new therapies. We are also competing with other biotechnology companies, such as Cell Genesys, Inc., Coley Pharmaceutical Group, Dendreon Corporation, and Therion Biologics Corporation that have cancer vaccine programs that are in more advanced stages of development than ours. In addition, other companies are pursuing early-stage research and development of Listeria-based immunotherapies. If any of these companies’ products are shown to be more efficacious than ours, our Listeria-based products may fail to gain regulatory approval or commercial acceptance. If these companies’ products fail in human clinical trials, we may be required to overcome more significant regulatory barriers prior to gaining approval, face more challenging impediments to market acceptance and may be unable to raise capital to fund development of our Listeria programs. We may be liable if our products harm people. We may be liable if an accident occurs in our controlled use of hazardous materials. We are exposed to potential liability risks inherent in the testing and marketing of medical devices and pharmaceutical products. We may be liable if any of our products cause injury, illness or death. Although we will have completed rigorous preclinical and clinical safety testing prior to marketing our products, there may be harmful effects caused by our products that we are unable to identify in preclinical or clinical testing. In 25 Table of Contents particular, unforeseen, rare reactions or adverse side effects related to long-term use of our products may not be observed until the products are in widespread commercial use. We maintain product liability insurance, but do not know whether the insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including certain hazardous chemicals, radioactive materials and infectious pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis viruses. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply with regulatory requirements, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for any damages that result. We operate from a single site that is subject to lengthy business interruption in the event of a severe earthquake. Our facilities are all based in Concord, California and are within an active earthquake fault zone. Should a severe earthquake occur, we might be unable to occupy our facilities or conduct research and development activities in support of our products until such time as our facilities could be repaired and made operational. Our property and casualty and business interruption insurance in general does not cover losses caused by earthquakes. While we have taken certain measures to protect our scientific, technological and commercial assets, a lengthy or costly disruption due to an earthquake would have a material adverse effect on us. We have only a limited operating history, and we expect to continue to generate losses. We may never achieve a profitable level of operations. To date, we have engaged primarily in research and development. Our development and general and administrative expenses have resulted in substantial losses each year since our inception, including net losses of $58.3 million in 2003, $31.2 million in 2004. However, in 2005, we realized a $22.1 million gain associated with the restructuring of a loan payable. As a result of this gain, we recorded net income of $13.1 million in 2005. At December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $306.6 million. Except for the platelet system, which has received European CE mark approval, all of our products are in the research and development stage, and we have not received significant revenue from product sales. We have received substantially all of our revenue from our agreements with our development partners and from federal research grants and cooperative agreements. We will be required to conduct significant research, development, clinical testing and regulatory compliance activities for each of these products. We expect our losses to continue at least until more of our product candidates are commercialized and achieve significant market acceptance. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our future operations, we will not be able to develop product candidates in our pipeline. Our product development programs are capital-intensive. We may need to reduce or stop further investment in specific research and development or sales and marketing activities if we are unable to obtain additional capital or if any of our development programs are determined by us to be economically unfeasible. A product or program may be determined to be uneconomic if the commercial opportunity is insufficient to justify the investment required to develop and market the product or for other reasons. We expect that our spending in support of research, development and commercialization of the platelet and plasma systems will be in excess of contribution from product sales, milestone payments and development funding for such programs from third parties over the next year. We have recently elected to re-enter clinical trials for the red blood cell system with only partial funding from governmental sources. In addition, the 2006 restructuring agreement with Baxter requires that we take on more operational and financial responsibility for the commercialization of the platelet and plasma systems, particularly in Europe. As a result of these factors, further product development and commercialization of the INTERCEPT Blood System may take longer and be more expensive than we previously 26 Table of Contents anticipated. We expect to continue to spend substantial funds for our operations for the foreseeable future. Our cash, liquidity and capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the development progress and costs of our programs, payments by MedImmune, BioOne and others, funding from agencies of the United States government, costs related to creating, maintaining and defending our intellectual property position, regulatory approval and successful commercialization of our product candidates, competitive developments and regulatory factors. As of December 31, 2005, we had been awarded $33.8 million in funding under cooperative agreements with the Department of Defense, and also have received funding under grants from the National Institutes of Health. Further funding awarded under federal grants and cooperative agreements is subject to the authorization of funds and approval of our research plans by various organizations within the federal government, including the U.S. Congress. If we are unable to obtain federal grant and cooperative agreement funding for future activities at similar or greater levels, we may need to further reduce our operating expenses, which would delay progress in some of our development programs. In addition, we are required separately to administer and account for our work under government contracts and grants on an on-going basis as a condition to accepting government funding which places administrative, accounting and reporting burdens on us beyond those we have assumed as a public company. If we fail to comply with applicable governmental administrative, accounting and reporting regulations with respect to these grants and cooperative agreements, funds currently available to us may be reduced or lost. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or operate our business without infringing intellectual property rights of others. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection on our products and successfully defending our products against third-party challenges. Our technology will be protected from unauthorized use only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents or effectively maintained as trade secrets. As a result, our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain patents; • protect trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that our patents or patents that we license from others will be enforceable and afford protection against competitors. Our patents or patent applications, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our patent rights may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Others may independently develop technologies similar to ours or independently duplicate our technologies. For example, a United States patent issued to a third-party covers methods to remove psoralen compounds from blood products. We have reviewed the patent and believe our work predates the invention disclosed in that patent. We are continuing to review that patent and will make a determination as to whether any action is necessary. In addition, others hold patents, and have pending patent applications, concerning Listeria-based immunotherapies. Those patents and new patents that may be issued upon the pending applications, if valid, would restrict us from bringing to market particular embodiments of Listeria-based immunotherapy products. While we believe that such restrictions do not preclude us from developing and commercializing our Listeria-based immunotherapy products, they may preclude us from pursuing certain product approaches that might otherwise be promising. Our patents expire at various dates between 2009 and 2018. Recent patent applications, principally related to our immunotherapy programs, will, if granted, result in patents with later expiration dates. Due to the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of our potential products, our patents may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization. This would reduce or eliminate any advantage of the patents. 27 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. We may need to license the right to use third-party patents and intellectual property to continue development and commercialization of our products. We may not be able to acquire such required licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ patents, or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. We may face litigation to defend against claims of infringement, assert claims of infringement, enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how or determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. Patent litigation is costly. In addition, we may require interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions relating to our patent applications. Litigation or interference proceedings could be expensive and time consuming, and we could be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights. We may rely, in certain circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees and certain contractors. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach or our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others, disputes also may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. The market price of our stock may be highly volatile. The market prices for our securities and those of other emerging medical device and biotechnology companies have been, and may continue to be, volatile. For example, during the period from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2005, the sale price of our common stock as quoted on the Nasdaq National Market fluctuated from a low of $1.60 to a high of $21.75. Announcements may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Such announcements may include: • biological or medical discoveries; • technological innovations or new commercial services by us or our competitors; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; • regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries; • status of development partnerships; • dilution from future issuances of common stock; • public concern as to the safety of new technologies; • general market conditions; • comments made by analysts, including changes in analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; and • quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and financial results. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and medical device companies, and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 28 Table of Contents If there is an adverse outcome in the securities class action litigation that has been filed against us, our business may be harmed. We and certain of our current and former officers and directors are named as defendants in a purported securities class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The lawsuit is brought on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our securities, and seeks unspecified damages. In addition, our directors and certain of our current and former officers have been named as defendants in a derivative lawsuit in the Superior Court for the County of Contra Costa, California, which names Cerus as a nominal defendant. The plaintiff in this action is a Cerus stockholder who seeks to bring derivative claims on behalf of Cerus against the defendants. The lawsuit alleges breaches of fiduciary duty and related claims. As with any litigation proceeding, we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending litigation. Furthermore, we may have to incur substantial expenses in connection with these lawsuits. In the event of an adverse outcome, our business could be harmed. We may fail to comply fully with elements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of this Act could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accountants attesting to and reporting on these assessments. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude in future periods that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we cannot favorably assess, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment of, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 