D. Risk Factors In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report, you should consider the following carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. The Company Has Incurred Losses Since its reorganization in 1996, the Company has incurred net losses and will continue to incur losses until it can derive sufficient revenues from its projects. The Company Is In Exploration Stage and Has No Proven Reserves None of the properties in which the Company has interests are in commercial production, or contain reserves. In order to obtain more reliable information on which to base decisions about possible development of a property, it is necessary to expend significant time and money, and many such properties will prove to be worth further expense. The Company may thus expend significant amounts of financing and effort on any one of or all of its properties without finding reserves or reaching a stage of commercial production. The Company Must Obtain Additional Financing to Conduct Exploration on Its Properties Because the Company is in the exploration stage, it does not have sufficient financial resources available to undertake extensive exploration or, if warranted, development programs. Further exploration or commercial development, if warranted, would require additional financing. There can be no assurance that needed future financing will be available in a timely or economically advantageous manner, or at all. Page 11 of 85 The Company’s Interests in Its Joint Ventures Will Be Subject to Dilution Under the terms of its joint venture agreements, the Company may earn a specified percentage in the joint venture provided that the Company spends a required amount on project expenditures for the joint venture. In the event the Company ceases to make its project expenditures its interest in the joint venture will be subject to dilution. The Company’s Interest in Projects Will Be Diluted Pursuant to the Teck-Cominco Agreements The Teck-Cominco Agreements grant those companies the right to become the operators of an aggregate of two future properties of the Company, as well as rights of first refusal to acquire interests in other future projects for a period of three years. The exercise of those earn-in rights by Teck Cominco will dilute the Company's interest in those projects. See Item 4. - "Information on the Company", "The Teck-Cominco Agreements”. The Mining Industry Is Highly Speculative The Company is engaged in the exploration for minerals which involves a high degree of geological, technical and economic uncertainty because of the inability to predict future mineral prices, as well as the difficulty of determining the extent of a mineral deposit and the feasibility of extracting it without the expenditure of considerable money. It May Be Difficult to Enforce Civil Liabilities Against the Company Because all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as the Company’s jurisdiction of incorporation and the residences of its officers and directors are located outside of the United States, it may be difficult or impossible to enforce judgments granted by a court in the United States against the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries or the directors and officers of the Company who reside outside the United States. Penny Stock Rules May Make It More Difficult to Trade the Company’s Common Shares The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price, as defined, less than US$5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than US$5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The Company's securities may be covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors such as, institutions with assets in excess of US$5,000,000 or an individual with net worth in excess of US$1,000,000 or annual income exceeding US$200,000 or US$300,000 jointly with his or her spouse. For transactions covered by this rule, the broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination for the purchase and receive the purchaser’s written agreement of the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, the rule m ay affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company's securities and also affect the ability of the Company's investors to sell their shares in the secondary market. The Company is a Passive Foreign Investment Company for United State Federal Income Tax Purposes The Company believes that it is a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for United States Federal income tax purposes because it earns 75% or more of its gross income from passive sources. As a result, United States holders of the Company's common shares could be subject to increased tax liability, possibly Page 12 of 85 including an interest charge, upon the sale or other disposition of the United States holders common shares, or upon receipt of "excess distributions," unless such holder of common shares elected to be taxed currently on his or her pro rata portion of the Company's income, whether or not the income was distributed in the form of dividends or otherwise. The election requires certain conditions to be met such as filing on or before the due date, as extended, for filing the shareholder's income tax return for the first taxable year to which the election will apply. Otherwise, the election may only partially apply. Further, the elections will increase the administrative and regulatory burden of the Company. See Item 10.E. “Taxation - United States Tax Consequences - Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” Risks Related to Doing Business in China Various matters that are specific to doing business in China may create additional risks or increase the degree of such risks associated with the Company’s activities. These risks are discussed below. a. The Company Must Seek Governmental Approval to Develop Mines. The establishment, operation and terms of the joint ventures through which any particular mineral property is to be explored or operated are all subject to obtaining Chinese governmental approvals at various levels and for particular matters, including mining rights, importation of equipment, hiring of labor, and environmental regulations. Currently, the joint ventures formed to explore and, if warranted, develop the White Silver Mountain and Gobi gold projects have obtained a license to conduct mineral exploration activities, but will be required to obtain a mining license to, if warranted, develop and conduct operations at the property. Depending on the scope of the operation, its location and the particular issues involved, the level of government from which approvals must be sought and the process involved may vary, potentially restricting the joint venture’s operation. b. Environmental Regulations May Adversely Affect the Company’s Projects. The Company’s operations are subject to environmental regulations promulgated by various Chinese government agencies from time to time. Violation of existing or future Chinese environmental rules may result in various fines and penalties. As China’s economy modernizes and expands, it is expected that regulations covering environmental protection and the reclamation and remediation of industrial sites would be strengthened which could increase the operation costs in China. It is industry practice for North American mining companies to apply the more stringent standards of their home countries to foreign operations regardless of local practices. Should the Company choose to initiate production of a property, its operations would be carried out using Nor th American environmental standards. It is common practice for the estimated costs of reclamation and remediation of mine sites to be included in the capital cost of a project. A project would have to be able to provide an adequate return on all capital, including estimated reclamation costs, to be considered viable. The Company’s current projects all surround active mining operations, which add additional considerations that would be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. See the “Environmental Considerations” section under the individual property description in Item 4. D. - "Property, Plants and Equipment" for more details. c. Politics of China May Adversely Affect the Company’s Investments. The Company’s investments may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in China. Changes in leadership, social or political disruption or unforeseen circumstances affecting China’s political, economic and social structure could adversely affect the Company’s joint venture interest or restrict its operations. Page 13 of 85 d. Lack Of A Legal System May Produce Inconsistent Results. Enforcement, operation and interpretation of existing laws may be uncertain, sporadic or inconsistent. China’s judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing laws that do exist, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Even where adequate law exists in China, it may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such law, or to obtain enforcement of the judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. As a result, if the Company is adversely affected, the Company may be unable to seek legal address in China. e. Property Information May Be Uncertain. Much of the information on which the Company and its consultants have based their decisions regarding the Company’s mineral prospects is based on information provided by Chinese governmental officials, geologists and mining engineers and cannot be independently confirmed. Accordingly, the reliability of geological and mineral information regarding the properties, the costs of labor, operation and construction may be uncertain since it has not been independently verified by the Company. 