Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business may suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. There may be additional risks faced by our business. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The INTERCEPT Blood System may not achieve broad market acceptance. We may encounter governmental and transfusion medicine community resistance to commercial adoption for any or all of our products. In addition to blood banks, our direct customers, we must also address issues and concerns from broad constituencies involved in the healthcare system, from patients, to transfusing physicians, hospitals, private and public sector payors, regulatory bodies and public health authorities. Any one of these constituencies may be able to delay or block adoption of the INTERCEPT Blood System. We may be unable to adequately demonstrate to these constituencies that the INTERCEPT Blood System is safe, effective and economical. Some potential customers may await further safety information or additional studies before choosing whether to adopt our products. For instance, we have been informed by the largest group of blood centers in Germany that it will need to complete a clinical trial before purchasing our products on a routine basis. We can not predict the final trial design, number of transfusions, enrollment duration, estimated time it will take to complete such a trial, or trial outcome. For logistical and financial reasons, the transfusion medicine industry has not always integrated new technologies into its processes, even those with the potential to improve the safety of the blood supply, such as the INTERCEPT Blood System. Our products may require significant changes to our potential customers’ blood component collection methods, space and staffing requirements and potential customers may not believe that the benefits of using the INTERCEPT Blood System justify their cost. There is some loss of platelets as a result of our pathogen inactivation process. If the loss of platelets leads to increased costs, or our process requires changes in blood center or clinical regimens, customers may not adopt our platelet system. Certain studies have indicated that transfusion of conventionally prepared platelets may yield higher post-transfusion platelet counts (according to a measurement called “corrected count increment”) and may be more effective than transfusion of INTERCEPT-treated platelets. While studies also demonstrate that INTERCEPT-treated platelets retain therapeutic function comparable to conventional platelets, customers may choose not to adopt our platelet system due to considerations relating to corrected count increment or efficacy. Our products do not inactivate all known pathogens, and the inability of our systems to inactivate certain pathogens may limit their acceptance. For example, due to the biology of certain non-lipid enveloped viruses, including hepatitis A virus, our products have not been demonstrated to inactivate these viruses. In addition, for human parvovirus B-19, which is also a non-lipid-enveloped virus, our testing has not demonstrated a high level of inactivation. Although we have shown high levels of inactivation of a broad spectrum of lipid-enveloped viruses, some customers may choose not to adopt our products based on considerations concerning inability to inactivate, or limited inactivation, of certain non-lipid-enveloped viruses. In addition, since prions do not contain nucleic acid, our products do not inactivate prions. While transmission of prions has not been a major problem in blood transfusions, and we are not aware of any competing products that inactivate prions, the inability to inactivate prions may limit market acceptance of our products. We have conducted pre-clinical and clinical studies of our products in both in vivo and in vitro environments using well-established tests that are accepted by regulatory bodies. When an in vitro test was not generally available or not well-established, we conducted in vivo studies in mammalian models to predict human responses. Although we have no reason to believe that the in vitro and in vivo studies are not predictive of actual 13 Table of Contents results in humans, we cannot be certain that the results of these in vitro and in vivo studies accurately predict the actual results in humans in all cases. To the extent that actual results in human patients differs from the results of our in vitro or in vivo testing, market acceptance of our products may be negatively impacted. Furthermore, due to limitations of those tests, we cannot exclude that a sufficient quantity of pathogen or pathogens may still be present in active form which could present a risk of infection to the transfused patient. Such uncertainty may limit the market acceptance of our products. Our products may not demonstrate economic value sufficient to offset their price, imposing a financial burden on the healthcare system that may limit market acceptance. We may need to develop new product configurations to address market needs, which may be technically challenging, expensive and negatively affect potential contribution from product sales. If customers experience operational or technical problems with the use of INTERCEPT Blood System products, market acceptance may be reduced. For example, if adverse events arise from incomplete inactivation of pathogens, improper processing or user error, or if testing of INTERCEPT-treated blood samples fails to reliably confirm pathogen inactivation, whether or not directly attributable to a shortcoming of the INTERCEPT Blood System, customers may refrain from purchasing the products. In addition, there is a risk that further studies we or others may conduct will show results inconsistent with previous studies. Should this happen, potential customers may delay or choose not to adopt our products, and existing customers may cease use of our products. Market acceptance of our products may also be affected by blood center budgets and the availability of reimbursement from governments, managed care payors, such as insurance companies, or other third parties. In many cases, due to the structure of the blood products industry, we will have little control over budget and reimbursement discussions, which generally occur between blood centers and national or regional ministries of health and private payors. Even if a particular blood center is prepared to adopt the INTERCEPT Blood System, its hospital customers may not accept, or may not have the budget to purchase, INTERCEPT-treated blood products. Since blood centers would likely not eliminate the practice of screening donors or testing blood for pathogens prior to transfusion, even after implementing our products some blood centers may not be able to afford to purchase our products. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict the reimbursement status of newly approved, novel medical device products. In certain countries, governments have issued regulations relating to the pricing and profitability of medical products and medical products companies. There also have been proposals in the United States, at both the Federal and state government level, to implement similar controls. The widespread adoption of managed care in the United States has also placed downward pressure on the pricing of medical products. These pressures, as well as proposed health care reform measures in the United States, can be expected to continue and may limit the prices we can obtain for our products. Product adoption in Europe and other regions may be negatively affected because we do not have FDA approval for any of our products. In addition, failure to gain approval or achieve widespread product adoption in key European countries for reasons within and outside our control may limit adoption in other countries. The market for the INTERCEPT Blood System is highly concentrated with few customers, including often-dominant regional or national blood collection entities. Even if our products receive regulatory approval and reimbursement is available, failure to properly market, promote, distribute, price or sell our products to any of these large customers could significantly diminish potential product revenue in those geographies. The market for our pathogen inactivation systems in the United States is highly concentrated, dominated by a small number of blood collection organizations. In many countries in Western Europe and in Japan, various national blood transfusion services or Red Cross organizations collect, store and distribute virtually all of their respective nations’ blood and blood components supply. In Europe, the largest markets for our products are in England, Germany and France. Decisions on product adoption in England are centralized with the National Blood Service. In Germany, decisions on product adoption and subsequent reimbursement are expected to be on a regional or even blood center-by-blood center basis, but depend on both local and centralized regulatory approval from the Paul Ehrlich Institute, or PEI. Product characteristics relating to platelet dose of INTERCEPT-treated platelets 14 Table of Contents that have received marketing authorization from the PEI may be incompatible with market requirements. While INTERCEPT-treated platelets and plasma have received in-country regulatory approval and reimbursement rates have been established in France, adoption throughout France has been limited to certain blood centers. The Japanese Red Cross controls a significant majority of blood transfusions in Japan and exerts a high degree of influence on the adoption and use of blood safety measures in Japan. The Japanese Red Cross has been reviewing preclinical and clinical data on pathogen inactivation of blood over a number of years and has yet to make a formal determination to adopt the INTERCEPT Blood System or any other competitive approach. If approvals are not obtained to market our products in these countries, or if the products are not adopted in these countries, our potential product revenue will be significantly impaired. Our products, blood products treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System and we are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign authorities. If our preclinical and clinical data are not considered sufficient by regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval, we will be unable to commercialize our products and generate revenue. Our red blood cell system requires extensive additional testing and development. Our products, both those sold commercially and those under development are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by local, state and federal regulatory authorities in the United States and by foreign regulatory bodies. These regulations are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: • development; • testing; • manufacturing; • labeling; • storage; • pre-market clearance or approval; • sales and distribution; • use standards and documentation; • post-launch surveillance; • quality; • advertising and promotion; and • reimbursement. Clinical trials in particular are expensive and have a high risk of failure. Any of our product candidates may fail in the testing phase or may not achieve results sufficient to attain market acceptance, which could prevent us from achieving profitability. We do not know whether we will begin and conduct planned clinical trials on schedule, if at all. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially impact our clinical trials. We also do not know whether planned clinical trials will need to be revamped or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Criteria for regulatory approval in blood safety indications are evolving with competitive advances in the standard of care against which new product candidates are judged, as well as with changing market needs and reimbursement levels. Clinical trial design, including enrollment criteria, endpoints, and anticipated label claims are thus subject to change, even if original objectives are being met. In addition to the reasons stated above, clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a study, delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study agreement terms with prospective clinical sites, delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective clinical site and delays in recruiting subjects to participate in a study. We do not know whether any clinical trials will result in marketable products. Typically, there is a high rate of failure for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials and products emerging from any successful trial may not reach the market for several years. 15 Table of Contents It may take us several years to complete our clinical testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Enrollment criteria for certain of our clinical trials may be quite narrow. Consequently, we may be unable to recruit suitable patients into the trial on a timely basis, if at all. We cannot rely on interim results of trials to predict their final results, and acceptable results in early trials might not be repeated in later trials. Any trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical study or clinical trial or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial to be repeated, require other studies to be performed or cause a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to a program are successful. The FDA and other agencies in the United States and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the manufacturing and marketing of products such as those we are developing. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is long, expensive and uncertain, and typically takes a number of years, depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the product. In addition, we may be required to obtain approval from the Food and Drug Branch of the California State Department of Health for any product manufactured by us in California, including for clinical trial use. We may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure necessary approvals or licenses, or we may not be successful at all. We have received CE mark approval for the INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems, which, is sufficient to allow us to sell our platelet and plasma systems in the European Union and allows us to sell the INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems under import licenses to many countries outside of the European Union. In Germany, France, Switzerland, and Austria, additional regulatory approval of the blood products treated by our products has been required before those blood products can be transfused into a human patient. INTERCEPT-treated blood products have received those additional regulatory approvals from the Paul Ehrlich Institute in Germany (as to the largest branch of the German Red Cross), the Agence Française de Sécurité Sanitaire Des Produits de Santé, or Afssaps, in France, and SwissMedic in Switzerland. We have also obtained in-country regulatory approvals for the sale of INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems in Russia. We have not received regulatory approval for commercial sale of the INTERCEPT Blood System in the United States and many other countries around the world. Our products are in various stages of development and regulatory approval, and we face the risks of failure inherent in developing medical devices and biotechnology products based on new technologies. Our products must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy and we must adhere to quality standards regarding manufacturing and customer-facing business processes before the FDA and international regulatory authorities can approve them for commercial use. We must provide the FDA and international regulatory authorities with preclinical, clinical and manufacturing data demonstrating that our products are safe, effective and in compliance with government regulations before the products can be approved for commercial sale. Distribution of our products in markets outside the United States also is subject to extensive government regulation. These regulations vary by country, including the requirements for approvals or clearance to market, the time required for regulatory review and the sanctions imposed for violations. In some countries, we may be required to register as a medical device manufacturer, even though we outsource manufacturing to third parties. In addition to CE mark documentation, countries outside the European Union may require clinical data submissions, registration packages, import licenses or other documentation. In May 2007, we obtained a CE mark extension in our name from European Union regulators for our platelet system, originally obtained by Baxter in 2002, and will need to obtain an extension every five years. In addition to European Union-level approval, we must obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals in some individual European countries to market our products. We or our customers may also be required to conduct additional testing in order to obtain regulatory approval in countries that do not recognize the CE mark as being adequate for commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System in those countries. The level of additional product testing varies by country, but could be expensive or take a long time to complete. In addition, regulatory agencies are able to withdraw or suspend previously issued approvals. 16 Table of Contents We completed our Phase III clinical trial of the platelet system in the United States in March 2001 and submitted data from this trial, along with several other modules of our pre-market approval application, to the FDA. Based on discussions with the FDA, we performed an additional blinded analysis of the clinical trial data, under the direction of an independent expert physician panel, to determine if apparent differences between treatment groups in the category of pulmonary adverse events reported in the study were attributable to discrepancies in safety results. The reassessment of primary patient records by the expert physician panel showed no statistically significant differences between groups. This reassessment differed from the earlier analysis of adverse events that was based on clinical trial case report forms and had shown statistically significant differences in specific pulmonary events. We submitted a report of the analysis to the FDA for review. We now understand that our reassessment of our previously completed Phase III clinical trial data will not be sufficient to address the FDA’s questions. In November 2009, we and the FDA presented a proposed clinical trial protocol for a second Phase III clinical trial to the FDA’s Blood Product Advisory Committee, or BPAC. Although the BPAC agreed with the proposed trial design, safety endpoints and efficacy endpoints, we believe we will need to reach agreement with the FDA on the means necessary to satisfy the BPAC’s request for more stringent safety margins than we had proposed. Satisfying that request will likely require assessing data from additional patients in the trial than what we had proposed. Until the final study size and design requirements are determined, we will not be able to assess the feasibility of a second Phase III trial. The dimensions of such a Phase III trial may be prohibitively large due either to prospective cost, logistics or both. We have no plans to initiate such a trial unless adequate funding from partners or government agencies is secured. The additional Phase III clinical trial will need to be completed and data submitted to the FDA before we can complete our regulatory submission. We have completed Phase IIIa, Phase IIIb and Phase IIIc clinical trials of the plasma system, in the United States, reports for which were filed with the FDA during 2005. We obtained a CE mark approval in Europe of the plasma system in November 2006 and final French approval in May 2007 based on data from those trials of the plasma system. We have not submitted any applications for regulatory approval of the plasma system in the United States or any other regions other than Europe. In some countries, including several in Europe, we or our customers may be required to perform additional clinical studies or submit manufacturing and marketing applications in order to obtain regulatory approval. Before the FDA determines whether to approve the INTERCEPT Blood System products, we expect our approval applications to be reviewed by BPAC. BPAC would then make a recommendation to the FDA for, or against, approval. Even if BPAC were to recommend approval of one or more of our products, the FDA would not necessarily approve those products. If BPAC were to recommend against approval of one or more of our products, the FDA would have to take into consideration the points of concern raised by BPAC which could affect the approval of the products. If our product candidates receive approval for commercial sale, their marketing and manufacturing will be subject to continuing FDA and other regulatory requirements, such as requirements to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice, or GMP, and ISO 13485, a quality management system standard applicable to the products we sell in Europe. The failure to comply with these requirements on an ongoing basis could result in delaying or precluding commercialization efforts in certain geographies, including the United States, and could result in an enforcement action, which could harm our business. The current manufacturing sites we rely upon for producing the platelet and plasma system products for international distribution and sale are not FDA-qualified facilities. The FDA will require, and other regulatory authorities may also require, post-marketing testing, which can involve significant expense. Governments or regulatory authorities may impose new regulations or other changes or we may discover that we are subject to additional regulations that could further delay or preclude regulatory approval and subsequent adoption of our potential products. We cannot predict the impact of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action. We have conducted many toxicology studies to demonstrate the INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems’ safety, and we have conducted and plan to conduct toxicology studies for the INTERCEPT red blood cell system 17 Table of Contents throughout the product development process. At any time, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may require further toxicology or other studies to further demonstrate our products’ safety, which could delay commercialization. In addition, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may alter guidance at any time as to what constitutes acceptable clinical trial endpoints or trial design, which may necessitate our having to redesign our product or proposed clinical trials and cause us to incur substantial additional expense or time in attempting to gain regulatory approval. We believe the FDA and other regulatory authorities are likely to weigh the potential risks of using our pathogen inactivation products against the incremental benefits, which may be less compelling in light of improved safety in the blood supply. The FDA will require us to demonstrate a very low level of potential side effects in the proposed second Phase III trial of the platelet system. Trials of this type may be too large and expensive to be practical. As a result of the termination of Phase III clinical trials of our red blood cell system due to the detection of antibody reactivity to red blood cells treated with the INTERCEPT red blood cell system in one patient in the chronic arm of the trials, we have been conducting additional research activities on our red blood cell system to determine if the system can be reconfigured to reduce the potential for antibody reactivity to treated red blood cells. Based upon an internal evaluation of the results from these additional research activities and after consulting with regulatory authorities, we initiated a new Phase I trial in 2006 in the United States using a modified red blood cell system before potentially progressing to later-stage clinical trials. We utilized a manual processing system in the Phase I trial conducted in 2006, which system is not in a commercially feasible form. Results of that Phase I trial suggested that the modified process in combination with a conventional additive solution results in conditions not suitable for long-term storage of red blood cells treated with the INTERCEPT system, adversely impacting their lifespan. Consequently, we conducted in vitro and in vivo studies and initiated a new Phase I clinical trial in the fourth quarter of 2008 to test further modifications to the red blood cell system. That new Phase I clinical trial has been completed, successfully meeting its primary endpoint of red cell recovery measured twenty-four hours after transfusion. In addition to red cell recovery, we also measured red cell lifespan, measured as the half-life of red cells circulating in transfusion recipients. INTERCEPT-treated red blood cells fell within the established normal reference range for red blood cells. Non-treated red cells were above the established normal reference range. Differences in the lifespan between INTERCEPT-treated red blood cells and non-treated red blood cells may inhibit our ability to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or may impair market acceptance if the red blood cell system is successfully developed. A number of trial design, process and product design issues that could impact efficacy, regulatory approval and market acceptance will need to be resolved prior to the initiation of further clinical trials. While those clinical trials are being conducted and further clinical work is planned, we will need to develop a commercially feasible red blood cell system. In the aggregate, these activities will require significant funding beyond our current resources. We will not commence the next phase of clinical trial activities until we have secured adequate funds. We expect that we can continue some level of program advancement with minimal spending, by leveraging grant funding from the Department of Defense and existing and potential partners. A delay in completing such development activities could result in a delay in the timely progression to later stage trials. If we are unsuccessful in advancing a modified red blood cell system through clinical trials, resolving process and product design issues or in obtaining subsequent regulatory approvals and acceptable reimbursement rates, we may never realize a return on our development expenses incurred to date in the red blood cell system program. Regulatory delays can also materially impact our product development costs. If we experience delays in testing, conducting trials or approvals, our product development costs will increase. For example, we may need to repeat clinical trials to address regulatory or clinical questions. We may also need to retain third-party investigators and organizations in an attempt to facilitate regulatory review and approval. If the delays are significant, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products will be harmed, and our ability to become profitable will be delayed. Regulatory agencies may limit the uses, or indications, for which any of our products are approved. For example, we believe that the INTERCEPT Blood System products will be able to claim the inactivation of 18 Table of Contents particular pathogens only to the extent we have laboratory data to support such claims. After regulatory approval for the initial indications, further studies may be necessary to gain approval for the use of the product for additional indications. In addition to the regulatory requirements applicable to us and to our products, there are regulatory requirements in several countries around the world, including the United States, Germany, Canada, and Australia, and other countries, applicable to our prospective customers of INTERCEPT Blood System products, the blood centers that process and distribute blood and blood products. In those countries, blood centers and other customers will be required to obtain approved license supplements from the appropriate regulatory authorities in each country before making available blood products processed with our pathogen inactivation systems to hospitals and transfusing physicians. For example, our customers in Germany must obtain separate regulatory approvals to manufacture and sell blood components treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System. Our customers may lack the resources or capability to obtain such regulatory approvals. These requirements or regulators’ delays in approving license applications or supplements may deter some blood centers from using our products. Blood centers that do submit applications or supplements for manufacturing and sale may face disapproval or delays in approval that could provide further delay or deter them from using our products. The regulatory impact on potential customers could slow or limit the potential sales of our products. We have limited experience operating a commercial organization. We rely on third parties to market, sell, and distribute our products and to maintain customer relationships in a certain countries. Since February 2006, we have been fully responsible for sales, marketing, distribution and regulatory support of the INTERCEPT Blood System worldwide, except in those Asian territories covered by our agreements with BioOne for the platelet and plasma systems. If we fail in our efforts to develop or maintain such internal competencies or establish acceptable relationships with third parties on a timely basis, our attempts to commercialize the INTERCEPT Blood System may be irreparably harmed. We operate a small organization, headquartered in the Netherlands, dedicated primarily to selling and marketing the platelet and plasma systems in geographies where the INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems are approved or can be imported through the import license process. We will need to maintain and continue to increase our competence in a number of functions, including sales, marketing, regulatory, inventory and logistics, customer service, credit and collections, risk management, and quality assurance systems. Many of these competencies require compliance with European Union and local standards and practices, with which we have limited experience. We have entered into contracts, generally on a geographically exclusive basis, with distributors in countries where we have limited abilities to commercialize our pathogen inactivation products directly. We have entered into geographical distribution agreements for distribution in Spain, Italy, Portugal, Chile, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Russia, Poland, Greece, Kuwait, and Qatar. We rely on these distributors to market and sell the INTERCEPT Blood System, obtain any necessary in-country regulatory approvals, provide customer and technical product support, maintain inventories, and adhere to our quality system in all material respects, among other activities. While our contracts generally require distributors to exercise diligence, these distributors may fail to commercialize the INTERCEPT Blood System in their respective territories. They may fail to sell product inventory they have purchased from us to end customers. Initial purchases of UVA illuminators or disposable kits by these third parties may not lead to follow-on purchases of disposable platelet and plasma system kits. We have limited visibility into the identity and requirements of blood banking customers these distributors may have. These third parties may irreparably harm relationships with local existing and prospective customers and our standing with the blood banking community in general. We may have little recourse, short of termination, in the event that a distributor fails to execute according to our expectations. 19 Table of Contents Our product design and manufacturing supply chain is highly technical and exposes us to significant risks In March 2007, Baxter sold its Transfusion Therapies business, the unit of Baxter that has performed many of the manufacturing and supply chain activities related to our relationship with Baxter, to a new company, Fenwal, Inc. Fenwal has agreed, through an agreement signed with us in December 2008, to manufacture disposable kits for the platelet and plasma systems for us through the end of 2013. However, Fenwal may fail to manufacture an adequate supply of disposable kits or to do so on a cost effective basis, which would subject us to loss of revenue and reduced contribution margin. Fenwal may fail to coordinate or meet interdependent supply chain obligations, leading to a failure to manufacture an adequate supply of components or devices of the INTERCEPT Blood System, which would also subject us to the risks described below. We contract with independent suppliers, including NOVA Biomedical Corporation, or NOVA, for the manufacture of UVA illuminators and certain components of the INTERCEPT Blood System which are manufactured or assembled at facilities not owned by Fenwal or Baxter. NOVA has not manufactured UVA illuminators for a number of years. Should NOVA have difficulties manufacturing UVA illuminators, we may not be able to supply customer demand or provide replacement UVA illuminators to existing customers. Facilities at which the INTERCEPT Blood System or its components are manufactured may cease operations for planned or unplanned reasons, causing at least temporary interruptions in supply. For our product components, including assembly, we do not have qualified suppliers beyond those on whom we currently rely, and we understand that Fenwal relies substantially on sole suppliers of certain materials for our products. If we need to or choose to identify and qualify alternate suppliers, the process will be time consuming and costly. Even a temporary failure to supply adequate numbers of INTERCEPT Blood System components may cause an irreparable loss of customer goodwill. If we conclude that supply of the INTERCEPT Blood System or components from Fenwal and others is uncertain, we may choose to build and maintain inventories of raw materials, work-in-process components, or finished goods, which would consume capital resources and may cause our supply chain to be less efficient. Some components of the INTERCEPT Blood System, including components of the UVA illuminator device, are no longer manufactured, which will require us to identify and qualify replacement components and may require that we conduct additional studies, which could include clinical trials, to demonstrate equivalency or validate any required design or component changes. Future supply of illuminators is limited to availability of components, some of which are in short supply or are no longer manufactured. We will likely be required to redesign the illuminator used in the platelet and plasma systems to manage the risk of obsolete components. Such redesign may be expensive and lead to regulatory delays in obtaining approvals to market the redesigned device. Fenwal manufactures our platelet and plasma systems in facilities that are not FDA-approved. In order to be sold in the United States, our systems would be required to be manufactured in FDA-approved facilities. FDA validation of manufacturing facilities, whether owned by Fenwal or by other parties, will be costly and time-consuming. If we determine to establish alternate manufacturers, we will also be dependent on Fenwal to transfer know-how relevant to the manufacture of the INTERCEPT Blood System; however, certain of Fenwal’s materials, manufacturing processes and methods are proprietary to Fenwal. We may be unable to establish alternate sources of supply to Fenwal, NOVA, or other suppliers without having to redesign certain elements of the platelet and plasma systems. Such redesign may be costly, time consuming and require further regulatory review, which would delay our ability to commercialize the platelet and plasma systems. Fenwal is not obligated to provide support for development and testing of improvements or changes we may make to the INTERCEPT Blood System. We may be unable to identify, select, and qualify such manufacturers or those third parties able to provide support for development and testing activities on a timely basis or enter into contracts with them on reasonable terms, if at all. Raw material and component suppliers may not meet quality specifications we have set, which would cause a disruption in supply and may lead to lost sales and irreparable damage to our customer relationships. Moreover, the inclusion of components manufactured by new suppliers could require us to seek new or updated approvals from regulatory authorities, which could result in delays in product delivery. We may not receive any such required regulatory approvals. 20 Table of Contents In the event of a failure by Fenwal or other manufacturers to perform their obligations to supply components of the INTERCEPT Blood System to us, damages recoverable by us may be insufficient to compensate us for the full loss of business opportunity. Our supply agreements with Fenwal and NOVA, and supply agreements with others contain limitations on incidental and consequential damages that we may recover. A supplier’s potential liability in the event of non-performance may not be sufficient to compel the supplier to continue to act in conformity with our agreements. We are in the early stages of commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System and may not accurately forecast demand for the INTERCEPT Blood System. In addition, we generally require our distributors to provide us with sales forecasts and binding purchase orders and as such, we may make inventory purchase decisions based on these forecasts. We have contracted with third parties to supply platelet and plasma systems and components to meet forecasted demand. However, such forecasts may prove to be either higher or lower than actual commercial demand. As a result, we may carry excess work-in-process or finished goods inventory, which would consume capital resources and may become obsolete, or our inventory may be inadequate to meet customer demand. We have entered into certain public tenders, some which call for us to maintain certain minimum levels of inventory. If Fenwal or third-party manufacturers fail to produce components or our finished products satisfactorily, at acceptable costs, and in sufficient quantities, we may incur delays, shortfalls and additional expenses, or non-compliance with certain public tenders which may in turn result in permanent harm to our customer relations or loss of customers. Our platelet and plasma system disposables have received regulatory approval for two-year shelf lives. We and our distributors may be unable to ship product to customers prior to the expiration of product shelf life, which would require that we destroy or consume the outdated inventory in product demonstration activities. Product expiration may in turn lead to elevated product demonstration costs or reduced gross margins. The platelet system is not compatible with some commercial platelet collection methods and platforms and platelet storage solutions. The equipment and materials used to collect platelets vary by manufacturer and by geographic region. Platelets may be collected from a single donor by apheresis using an automated collection machine. Apheresis devices currently used in the United States and European markets differ, among other characteristics, in their ability to collect platelets in reduced volumes of plasma. Platelet concentrates may also be prepared from whole blood by pooling together platelets from multiple donors. There are two commonly used methods for preparing whole blood platelets: the buffy coat method, which is used extensively in Europe, and the pooled random donor method, which is used in the United States. Our system for platelets is designed to work with platelets collected and stored in storage solutions, called Intersol and SSP+, and for platelets suspended in plasma. For platelets collected by apheresis, the INTERCEPT platelet system is most compatible with Fenwal’s apheresis platelet collection system, because it facilitates the use of Intersol. For platelets prepared from whole blood, our platelet system is most compatible with the buffy coat collection method. As a result, we have conducted most of our clinical studies using either Fenwal’s equipment or buffy coat platelets. Fenwal may be required to obtain separate regulatory approval for Intersol in the United States and in countries which do not recognize CE mark approval before customers would be able to use Intersol with the INTERCEPT Blood System in those countries. In order to address the entire market in the United States, we would need to develop and test additional configurations of the platelet system. Our efforts to develop the platelet system were initially focused on apheresis platelets collected on Fenwal’s automated collection platform or using the buffy coat collection method. We estimate that the majority of platelets used in the United States are collected by apheresis, though a significant minority is prepared from pooled random donor platelets derived from whole blood collections. In order to gain regulatory approvals for a pathogen inactivation system compatible with random donor platelets, we will need to perform additional product development and testing, including additional clinical trials. Similarly, to achieve market acceptance in certain geographies, we may be required to design, develop and test new product 21 Table of Contents configurations for the platelet and plasma systems. These development activities would increase our costs significantly, and may not be successful. Fenwal has committed to us to make Intersol collection and pooling products and conversion kits available to customers. However, Fenwal may not make such products or its apheresis collection system available for sale timely or in certain countries and has elected to discontinue sales efforts for its apheresis collection system in Japan. Other manufacturers supplying blood component collection platforms to the market may resist our efforts to make the INTERCEPT Blood System compatible with their platforms. Attaining compatibility with collection platforms manufactured by others may require adaptations to either the INTERCEPT Blood System or to the collection platforms, which may be difficult to engineer, expensive to implement and test, require additional clinical trials, cause delays in regulatory approval and/or be commercially unattractive to pursue. These development activities will increase our costs significantly, and may not be successful. Market acceptance of the INTERCEPT Blood System may be delayed until the system receives regulatory approval for use on such other equipment, if required. We have used prototype components in our preclinical studies and clinical trials of the INTERCEPT red blood cell system and have not completed the components’ commercial design. We will be required to identify and enter into agreements with third parties to manufacture the red blood cell system and related blood component storage solutions. Our red blood cell system that we used in our preclinical studies and recently completed Phase I red blood cell trial are prototypes of systems to be used in the final products. As a result, we expect regulatory authorities will require us to perform additional preclinical and clinical studies using the commercial versions of the systems to demonstrate the acceptability of the commercial configuration and the equivalence of the prototypes and the commercial products, which may increase our expenses and delay the commercialization of our products. We may determine that although the modified red blood cell system may overcome technical issues encountered in the past, it may not be commercially feasible from potential customers’ perspectives. If we fail to develop commercial versions of the INTERCEPT red blood cell system on schedule, our potential revenue would be delayed or diminished and our potential competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do. In addition, the design and engineering effort required to complete the final commercial product will likely be substantial and time-consuming. As with any complex development effort, we expect to encounter design, engineering and manufacturing issues. Such issues have previously arisen, sometimes unexpectedly, and solutions to these issues have not always been readily forthcoming. Additional unforeseen design, engineering and manufacturing issues may arise in the future, which could increase the development cost and delay commercialization of our products. We will need to identify and contract with parties to perform manufacturing related to our red blood cell system, including the chemical compounds used in the red blood cell system. It may be difficult to enter into these types of agreements on reasonable terms. We may be unable to identify and contract with manufacturers that can make our products cost-effectively, which would delay our efforts to commercialize the red blood cell system, even if we successfully complete clinical development. Any new or additional commercial manufacturer will need to develop new methods and processes to manufacture these compounds on a commercial scale and demonstrate to us, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that its commercial scale manufacturing processes comply with government regulations and that its compounds are equivalent to originally licensed compounds in order for us to maintain commercial licensure of our products. It may be difficult or impossible to economically manufacture our products on a commercial scale. 22 Table of Contents BioOne may fail to take advantage of commercialization rights for our platelet and plasma systems in many Asian countries. Baxter and we licensed to BioOne rights to commercialize the platelet and plasma systems in Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea, Vietnam, Thailand, and Singapore. BioOne is subject to similar risks in its territories regarding commercialization of the INTERCEPT Blood System as we are. BioOne is solely responsible for obtaining regulatory approvals, marketing and selling the platelet and plasma systems in countries where it holds licenses to commercialize the INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems. BioOne is dependent on Fenwal and us for the manufacture and supply of the platelet and plasma systems. BioOne may be unable to qualify the platelet and plasma systems for sale in certain countries in its territory. BioOne has made little progress to date in commercializing the platelet and plasma systems in Asian territories. Because we only have a minority investment interest in BioOne, we lack the ability to significantly influence BioOne, and are reliant on BioOne’s performance to realize milestone and royalty revenue from commercialization of our platelet and plasma systems in those countries. In Japan, regulatory authorities may require our platelet and plasma systems to be widely adopted commercially in Europe or approved by the FDA before the platelet and plasma systems are considered for approval in Japan, which would delay or prevent BioOne from achieving significant product revenue. In July 2007, BioOne raised limited additional capital in order to fund curtailed operations. At these reduced operating levels, we expect that BioOne’s ability to commercialize the platelet and plasma systems in its Asian territories is compromised. We understand that BioOne will need to raise additional capital to continue its operations beyond the near term and we do not know if it will be able to complete such a financing at or above our carrying value or at all. There is no assurance that BioOne will be able to attract additional required capital in the future to successfully commercialize those products licensed from Fenwal and us. Even if BioOne fails to commercialize the INTERCEPT Blood System in its territories, we may be unable to assert contractual rights to regain commercialization rights on satisfactory terms, if at all. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our products and product candidates, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. We expect our products to encounter significant competition. The INTERCEPT Blood System products compete with other approaches to blood safety currently in use, and may compete with future products that may be developed by others. Our success will depend in part on our ability to respond quickly to medical and technological changes brought about by the development and introduction of new products. Product development is risky and uncertain, and we cannot assure you that we will develop our products successfully. Competitors’ products or technologies may make our products obsolete or non-competitive before we are able to generate any significant revenue. In addition, competitors or potential competitors may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. They may also have greater experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials and other regulatory approval procedures. Several companies have, or are developing, technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for products that will directly compete with or reduce the market for our pathogen inactivation systems. A number of companies are specifically focusing on alternative strategies for pathogen inactivation in platelets and plasma. These alternative strategies may be more effective in inactivating certain types of pathogens from blood products, including non-lipid-enveloped pathogens, such as hepatitis A virus, which our products have not demonstrated an ability to inactivate, or human parvovirus B-19, for which our products have not demonstrated a high level of inactivation. While our products can effectively inactivate a broad spectrum of pathogens in blood components, including more robust inactivation of many pathogens than has been shown by other companies, market acceptance of our products may be reduced if customers determine that competitor’s products inactivate a broader range of pathogens that are of particular interest to the transfusion medicine community. In Europe, several companies, including Grifols S.A., Octapharma AG and MacoPharma International, are developing or selling commercial pathogen inactivation systems or services to treat fresh frozen plasma. CaridianBCT is developing a pathogen inactivation system for blood products and has been issued CE marks for a pathogen 23 Table of Contents reduction system for both platelets and plasma. We understand that CaridianBCT has also commenced trials on a pathogen inactivation system for whole blood, which if successful, may offer competitive advantages over our INTERCEPT Blood System. New methods of testing whole blood for specific pathogens have been approved by the FDA and in Europe, as have tests for bacteria in platelets. Other companies are developing rapid, point-of-care bacterial tests, synthetic blood product substitutes and products to stimulate the growth of platelets. Development and commercialization of any of these or other related technologies could limit the potential market for our products. We may be liable and we may need to withdraw our products from the market if our products harm people. We may be liable if an accident occurs in our controlled use of hazardous materials. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to offset losses we may incur. We are exposed to potential liability risks inherent in the testing and marketing of medical devices and pharmaceutical products. We may be liable if any of our products cause injury, illness or death. Although we will have completed rigorous preclinical and clinical safety testing prior to marketing our products, there may be harmful effects caused by our products that we are unable to identify in preclinical or clinical testing. In particular, unforeseen, rare reactions or adverse side effects related to long-term use of our products may not be observed until the products are in widespread commercial use. Because of the limited duration and number of patients receiving blood components treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System products in clinical trials, it is possible that harmful effects of our products not observed in clinical and preclinical testing could be discovered after a marketing approval has been received. For example, in cases where we have obtained regulatory approval for our products, we have demonstrated pathogen inactivation to specified levels based on well-established tests. However, there is no way to determine, after treatment by our products, whether our products have completely inactivated all of the pathogens that may be present in blood components. There is also no way to determine whether any residual amount of a pathogen remains in the blood component treated by our products and there is no way to exclude that such residual amount would be enough to cause disease in the transfused patient. For ethical reasons, we cannot conduct human testing to determine whether an individual who receives a transfusion of a blood component containing a pathogen that was inactivated using the INTERCEPT Blood System might show positive results if tested for an antibody against that pathogen. While we believe, based on the clinical experience of our scientists, that the level of inactivated pathogens would likely be too small to induce a detectable antibody response in diagnostic tests, we cannot exclude that a transfused patient might show positive results if tested for an antibody against that pathogen. We could be subject to a claim from a patient that tests positive, even though that patient did not contract a disease. Later discovery of problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in additional restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. We are subject to risks and costs of product recall, which include not only potential out-of-pocket costs, but also potential interruption to our supply chain. In such an event, our customer relations would be harmed and we would incur unforeseen losses. We maintain product liability insurance, but do not know whether the insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including certain hazardous chemicals, radioactive materials and infectious pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis viruses. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials are adequate and comply with regulatory requirements, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for any damages that result. 24 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our future operations or if we are unable to generate positive cash flows from our operations, we will need to curtail planned development or sales and commercialization activities. Our near-term capital requirements are dependent on various factors, including operating costs and working capital investments associated with commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System, costs associated with planning and conducting studies and clinical development of our platelet and red blood cell systems, timing and magnitude of payments under grants from the United States government, and costs related to creating, maintaining and defending our intellectual property. Our long-term capital requirements will also be dependent on competitive developments and regulatory factors. Until we are able to generate a sufficient amount of product revenue and generate positive net cash flows from operations, meeting our long-term capital requirements is in large part subject to access to public and private equity and debt capital markets, as well as to additional collaborative arrangements with partners or government grants, augmented by cash generated from operations and interest income earned on the investment of our cash balances and short-term investments. We believe that our available cash balances will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, we could consume our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. We may borrow additional capital from institutional and commercial banking sources to fund future growth on terms that may include restrictive covenants, including covenants that restrict the operation of our business, liens on assets, high effective interest rates and repayment provisions that reduce cash resources and limit future access to capital markets. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration or partnering arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some of our rights to product revenues, our technologies or rights to market and sell our products in certain geographies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Our ability to raise additional capital by selling common stock is limited. All of our authorized common stock have been either issued or reserved for issuance in connection with convertible preferred stock, warrants, our employee stock purchase plan, and our equity incentive plan. Accordingly, in order to have shares available for future sale, we and our stockholders will need to approve an authorization to increase the number of shares that are issuable under our certificate of incorporation. Our ability to raise additional capital may also be adversely impacted by global, regional or national economic conditions. As a result of these and other factors, we do not know whether additional capital will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will be able to obtain additional capital on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. If we are unable to raise additional capital we may need to curtail planned development. We expect to prioritize continued commercialization of the platelet and plasma systems in Europe, Russia, the Middle East and in selected countries in other regions around the world over development and commercialization of the red blood cell system and pursuit of regulatory approval of the platelet or plasma system in the United States. Historically, we had received significant awards in funding under cooperative agreements with the DoD. Further funding awarded under Federal grants and cooperative agreements for the INTERCEPT Blood Systems may decline when compared to historic levels. Access to Federal grants and cooperative agreements is subject to the authorization of funds and approval of our research plans by various organizations within the federal government, including the United States Congress. If we are unable to obtain Federal grant and cooperative agreement funding for future research and development activities at levels similar to past funding, we may need to reduce our operating expenses, which would delay progress in some of our development programs. We have only a limited operating history, and we expect to continue to generate losses. We may never achieve a profitable level of operations. Our development and selling, general, and administrative expenses have resulted in substantial losses each year since our inception with the exception of the 25 Table of Contents year ended December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $410.0 million. The platelet and plasma systems are not yet approved in the United States or in many other countries around the world. The red blood cell system is in early stage clinical development and may never emerge from the clinical development stage as a marketed product. We may be required to reduce the sales price for our products in order to make our products economically attractive to our customers and to governmental and private payors, which may reduce or altogether eliminate our gross profit on sales. At our present sales levels of the platelet and plasma systems, our costs to manufacture, distribute, market, sell, support and administer the systems are in excess of revenue. Contribution from product sales is unlikely to exceed the costs we incur in research, development, and commercialization of the INTERCEPT Blood System for near-term. We expect our losses to continue at least until the INTERCEPT Blood System achieves more significant market acceptance. To the extent that we are able to secure funding from partners or government agencies for further development of the red blood cell system or an additional Phase III clinical trial of the platelet system in the United States, we will incur costs of such activities would extend the period during which we expect to operate at a loss. Our investment portfolio may become impaired by further deterioration of the capital markets. Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of December 31, 2009 consisted primarily of high credit, high liquidity United States government agency securities, asset backed securities, corporate debt securities, money market funds and interest-bearing accounts with financial institutions. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. As a result of adverse financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments, such as structured investment vehicles, sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, auction rate securities and collateralized debt obligations, may pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. We have limited holdings of these investments in our portfolio; however, the current disruptions in the credit and financial markets have negatively affected investments in many industries, including those in which we invest. We did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairments on our investment portfolio during 2009. The recent global economic crisis has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on the market values of the investments in our investment portfolio. We cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and there can be no assurance that the markets for these securities will not deteriorate further or that the institutions that these investments are with will be able to meet their debt obligations at the time we may need to liquidate such investments or until such time as the investments mature. Virtually all of our research and development activities and the significant majority of our general and administrative activities are performed in or managed from a single site that may be subject to lengthy business interruption in the event of a severe earthquake. We also may suffer loss of computerized information and may be unable to make timely filings with regulatory agencies in the event of catastrophic failure of our data storage and backup systems. Virtually all of our research and development activities and the significant majority of our general and administrative activities are performed in or managed from our facilities in Concord, California, which are within an active earthquake fault zone. Should a severe earthquake occur, we might be unable to occupy our facilities or conduct research and development and general and administrative activities in support of our business and products until such time as our facilities could be repaired and made operational. Our property and casualty and business interruption insurance in general does not cover losses caused by earthquakes. While we have taken certain measures to protect our scientific, technological and commercial assets, a lengthy or costly disruption due to an earthquake would have a material adverse effect on us. We have also taken measures to limit damage that may occur from the loss of computerized data due to power outage, system or component failure, or corruption of data files. However, we may lose critical computerized data, which may be difficult or impossible to recreate, which may harm our business. We may be unable to make timely filings with regulatory agencies in the event of catastrophic failure of our data storage and backup systems, which may subject us to fines or adverse consequences, up to and including loss of our abilities to conduct business. 26 Table of Contents We do not anticipate receiving significant economic benefit from the spin-off of our immunotherapy business. In November 2007, we spun-off our immunotherapy business to Anza Therapeutics, Inc. for preferred stock representing an equity interest of approximately 20% of Anza’s preferred equity. We were informed that Anza had ceased operations by March 31, 2009. In July 2009, we and Anza’s remaining stockholders agreed that we would relinquish our ownership in Anza and that Anza would transfer all of its intellectual property to Aduro BioTech Inc, or Aduro. In November, in exchange for the transfer, we received $0.8 million in cash, preferred shares representing 10% of Aduro’s capital and a royalty on any future sales resulting from the transferred technology. There is no assurance that the equity we have received in Aduro will have monetary value at or that we will receive any royalties from Aduro. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or operate our business without infringing intellectual property rights of others. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection on our products and successfully defending our products against third-party challenges. Our technology will be protected from unauthorized use only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents or effectively maintained as trade secrets. As a result, our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain patents; • protect trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that our patents or patents that we license from others will be enforceable and afford protection against competitors. Our patents or patent applications, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our patent rights may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Others may independently develop technologies similar to ours or independently duplicate our technologies. For example, a United States patent issued to a third-party covers methods to remove psoralen compounds from blood products. We have reviewed the patent and believe there exist substantial questions concerning its validity. We cannot be certain, however, that a court would hold the patent to be invalid or not infringed by our platelet or plasma systems, if and when those products are sold in the United States. Our key blood safety patents generally expire at various dates between 2012 and 2026. Recent patent applications will, if granted, result in patents with later expiration dates. In addition, we have a license from Fenwal to United States and foreign patents relating to the INTERCEPT Blood System, which expire from 2010 to 2023. Due to the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of our potential products, our patents may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization. This would reduce or eliminate any advantage of the patents. We cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. We may need to license the right to use third-party patents and intellectual property to continue development and commercialization of our products. We may not be able to acquire such required licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ patents, or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. We may face litigation to defend against claims of infringement, assert claims of infringement, enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how or determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. Patent litigation is costly. In addition, we may require interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions relating to our patent applications. Litigation or interference proceedings could be expensive and time consuming, and we could be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights. 27 Table of Contents We may rely, in certain circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees and certain contractors. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach or our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others, disputes also may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. As our international operations grow, we may be subject to adverse fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and foreign currencies. Consequently, we may suffer losses. Our international operations are subject to risks typical of an international business, including, among other factors: differing political, economic, and regulatory climates, different tax structures, and foreign exchange volatility. We do not currently enter into any hedging contracts to normalize the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations. As a result, our future results could be materially affected by changes in these or other factors. Product sales of our blood safety products are typically made in Europe and generally are invoiced to customers in Euros. In addition, we purchase finished disposable kits for our platelet and plasma systems and incur operating expenses in Euros and other foreign currencies. Our exposure to foreign exchange rate volatility is a direct result of our product sales, cash collection and expenses to support our international operations. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations are recorded as a component of interest (expense) and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. Significant fluctuations in the volatility of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar may materially affect our results of operations. Currently we do not have any near-term plans to enter into a formal hedging program to mitigate the effects of foreign currency volatility. The market price of our stock may be highly volatile. The market prices for our securities and those of other emerging medical device and biotechnology companies have been, and may continue to be, volatile. For example, during the period from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2009, the sale price of our common stock as quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market fluctuated within a range from a low of $0.55 to a high of $10.29. Announcements may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Such announcements may include: • decisions regarding reimbursement and commercial adoption by customers, national blood services or governmental bodies; • biological or medical discoveries; • technological innovations discovered or new commercial services offered by us or our competitors; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; • regulatory developments; • status of development partnerships; • dilution from future issuances of common stock, including through the exercise of vested stock options; • debt financings, with terms that may not be viewed favorably by stockholders; • public concern as to the safety of new technologies; • general market conditions; • comments made by analysts, including changes in analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; and • quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and financial results. Recently, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations due to the unprecedented turmoil and upheaval of the credit markets and the financial services industry, which have particularly affected 28 Table of Contents the market prices for emerging biotechnology and medical device companies, and has adversely affected the market price of our common stock. Our stock price may not meet the minimum bid price for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market. Our ability to publicly or privately sell equity securities and the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market or if we are unable to transfer our listing to another stock market. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ, has minimum requirements that a company must meet in order to remain listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. These requirements include maintaining a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share. If our common stock does not maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share, we may be subject to delisting by NASDAQ for failure to meet the continued listing requirements. Delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market could adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. We may fail to comply fully with elements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of this Act could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accountants attesting to the effectiveness of our internal controls. These requirements extend to the operations of our subsidiary in Europe. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude in future periods that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we cannot favorably assess, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Provisions of our charter documents, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our stockholders. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, unless its application has been waived, provides certain default anti-takeover protections in connection with transactions between the company and an “interested stockholder” of the company. Generally, Section 203 prohibits stockholders who, alone or together with their affiliates and associates, own more than 15% of the subject company from engaging in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder of such subject company without approval of the board or the vote of two-thirds of the shares held by the independent stockholders. Our board of directors has also adopted a stockholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” which would significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. Additionally, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, including without limitation, the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 