ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section discusses factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties applicable to our business. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Forward-Looking Statements." We depend heavily on our principal customer and our success is heavily dependent on our principal customer's ability to grow its business. Our ability to maintain a close, mutually beneficial relationship with our largest customer, Whole Foods Market, is an important element to our continued growth. In October 2006, we announced a seven-year distribution agreement with Whole Foods Market, which commenced on September 26, 2006, under which we serve as the primary U.S. distributor to Whole Foods Market in the regions where we previously served. In January 2007, we expanded our Whole Foods Market relationship in the Southern Pacific region of the United States. In August 2007, Whole Foods Market and Wild Oats Markets completed their merger, as a result of which, Wild Oats Markets became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Whole Foods Market. We service all of the stores previously owned by Wild Oats Markets and now owned by Whole Foods Market under the terms of our distribution agreement with Whole Foods Market. Excluding sales to Wild Oats Markets' former Henry's and Sun Harvest store locations (which were sold by Whole Foods Market to a subsidiary of Smart & Final Inc. on September 30, 2007), Whole Foods Market accounted for approximately 33.1% of our net sales in fiscal 2009. As a result of this concentration of our customer base, the loss or cancellation of business from Whole Foods Market, including from increased distribution to their own facilities or closures of stores previously owned by Wild Oats Markets, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, if Whole Foods Market is not able to grow its business, including as a result of a reduction in the level of discretionary spending by its customers, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our operations are sensitive to economic downturns. The grocery industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions and the demand for our products may be adversely affected from time to time by economic downturns that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, energy and fuel costs and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits. Among these changes could be a reduction in the number of organic products that consumers purchase where there are non-organic (or "conventional") alternatives, given that many organic products, and particularly organic foods, often have higher retail prices than do their conventional counterparts. In addition, our operating results are particularly sensitive to, and may be materially adversely affected by: •difficulties with the collectability of accounts receivable; •difficulties with inventory control; •competitive pricing pressures; and 12 Table of Contents •unexpected increases in fuel or other transportation-related costs. We cannot assure you that one or more of such factors will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our customers generally are not obligated to continue purchasing products from us. We generally sell products under purchase orders, and we generally do not have agreements with or commitments from our customers for the purchase of products. We cannot assure you that our customers will maintain or increase their sales volumes or orders for the products supplied by us or that we will be able to maintain or add to our existing customer base. Decreases in our customers' sales volumes or orders for products supplied by us may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have experienced losses due to the uncollectibility of accounts receivable in the past and could experience increases in such losses in the future if our customers are unable to timely pay their debts to us. Certain of our customers have from time to time experienced bankruptcy, insolvency and/or an inability to pay their debts to us as they come due. If our customers suffer significant financial difficulty, they may be unable to pay their debts to us timely or, at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. It is possible that customers may reject their contractual obligations to us under bankruptcy laws or otherwise. Significant customer bankruptcies could further adversely affect our revenues and increase our operating expenses by requiring larger provisions for bad debt. In addition, even when our contracts with these customers are not rejected, if customers are unable to meet their obligations on a timely basis, it could adversely affect our ability to collect receivables. Further, we may have to negotiate significant discounts and/or extended financing terms with these customers in such a situation, each of which could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is a low margin business and our profit margins may decrease due to consolidation in the grocery industry. The grocery distribution industry generally is characterized by relatively high volume of sales with relatively low profit margins. The continuing consolidation of retailers in the natural products industry and the growth of supernatural chains may reduce our profit margins in the future as more customers qualify for greater volume discounts, and we experience pricing pressures from both ends of the supply chain. Our acquisition strategy may adversely affect our business. We continually evaluate opportunities to acquire other companies. To the extent that our future growth includes acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, consummate such potential acquisitions, integrate any acquired entities or successfully expand into new markets as a result of our acquisitions. We believe that there are risks related to acquiring companies, including overpaying for acquisitions, losing key employees of acquired companies and failing to achieve potential synergies. Additionally, our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to integrate the companies acquired in our acquisitions and mergers. A significant portion of our past growth has been achieved through acquisitions of, or mergers with, other distributors of natural products. Future acquisitions, if any, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly in periods immediately following the consummation of those transactions while the operations of the acquired business are being integrated with our operations. Achieving the benefits of acquisitions depends on timely, efficient and successful execution 13 Table of Contents of a number of post-acquisition events, including successful integration of the acquired entity. Integration requires, among other things: •maintaining the customer base; •optimizing delivery routes; •coordinating administrative, distribution and finance functions; and •integrating management information systems and personnel. The integration process could divert the attention of management and any difficulties or problems encountered in the transition process could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In particular, the integration process may temporarily redirect resources previously focused on reducing product cost, resulting in lower gross profits in relation to sales. In addition, the process of combining companies could cause the interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the respective businesses, which could have an adverse effect on their combined operations. In connection with the acquisitions of businesses in the future, we may decide to consolidate the operations of any acquired business with our existing operations or make other changes with respect to the acquired business, which could result in special charges or other expenses. Our results of operations also may be adversely affected by expenses we incur in making acquisitions, by amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets with definite lives and by additional depreciation attributable to acquired assets. Any of the businesses we acquire may also have liabilities or adverse operating issues, including some that we fail to discover before the acquisition, and our indemnity for such liabilities may also be limited. Additionally, our ability to make any future acquisitions may depend upon obtaining additional financing. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. To the extent that we seek to acquire other businesses in exchange for our common stock, fluctuations in our stock price could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete acquisitions. We may have difficulty managing our growth. The growth in the size of our business and operations has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management. Our future growth may be limited by our inability to acquire new distribution facilities or expand our existing distribution facilities, make acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired entities, implement information systems or adequately manage our personnel. Our future growth is limited in part by the size and location of our distribution centers. As we near maximum utilization of a given facility or maximize our processing capacity, operations may be constrained and inefficiencies have been and may be created, which could adversely affect our results of operations unless the facility is expanded, volume is shifted to another facility or additional processing capacity is added. Conversely, as we add additional facilities or expand existing operations or facilities, excess capacity may be created. Any excess capacity may also create inefficiencies and adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully expand our existing distribution facilities or open new distribution facilities in new or existing markets to facilitate growth. Even if we are able to expand our distribution network, our ability to compete effectively and to manage future growth, if any, will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. We cannot assure you that our existing personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support the future growth of our operations. Our inability to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We have significant competition from a variety of sources. We operate in competitive markets and our future success will be largely dependent on our ability to provide quality products and services at competitive prices. Our competition comes from a variety of sources, including other distributors of natural products as well as specialty grocery and mass market grocery distributors. We cannot assure you that mass market grocery distributors will not increase their emphasis on natural products and more directly compete with us or that new competitors will not enter the market. These distributors may have been in business longer than we have, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and may be better established in their markets. We cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors will not provide products or services comparable or superior to those provided by us or adapt more quickly than we do to evolving industry trends or changing market requirements. It is also possible that alliances among competitors may develop and rapidly acquire significant market share or that certain of our customers will increase distribution to their own retail facilities. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. Increased fuel costs may adversely affect our results of operations. Increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations. The high cost of diesel fuel can increase the price we pay for products as well as the costs we incur to deliver products to our customers. These factors, in turn, may negatively impact our net sales, margins, operating expenses and operating results. To manage this risk, we have in the past periodically entered, and may in the future periodically enter, into heating oil derivative contracts to hedge a portion of our projected diesel fuel requirements. Heating crude oil prices have a highly correlated relationship to fuel prices, making these derivatives effective in offsetting changes in the cost of diesel fuel. We are not party to any commodity swap agreements and, as a result, our exposure to volatility in the price of diesel fuel has increased relative to our exposure to volatility in prior periods in which we had outstanding heating oil derivative contracts. We do not enter into fuel hedge contracts for speculative purposes. We may, however, periodically enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. As of August 1, 2009, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $6.0 million through July 2010. Our commitments through August 2009 were entered into at prevailing rates from mid-June through mid-July 2009. We also maintain a fuel surcharge program which allows us to pass some of our higher fuel costs through to our customers. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to pass a comparable proportion or any of our higher fuel costs to our customers in the future. The cost of the capital available to us and any limitations on our ability to access additional capital may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have a $400 million secured revolving credit facility, which matures on November 27, 2012, and under which borrowings accrue interest, at our option, at either (i) the base rate (the applicable prime lending rate of Bank of America Business Capital, as announced from time to time), or (ii) the one-month London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 0.75%. As of August 1, 2009, our borrowing base, based on accounts receivable and inventory levels, was $355.7 million, with remaining availability of $137.0 million. We have a term loan agreement in the principal amount of $75 million secured by certain real property. The term loan is repayable over seven years based on a fifteen-year amortization schedule. Interest on the term loan accrues at one-month LIBOR plus 1.0%. As of August 1, 2009, $56.9 million was outstanding under the term loan agreement. In order to maintain our profit margins, we rely on strategic investment buying initiatives, such as discounted bulk purchases, which require spending significant amounts of working capital. In the event 15 Table of Contents that our cost of capital increases, such as during a period in which we are not in compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio covenants under our revolving credit facility and our term loan agreement, or our ability to borrow funds or raise equity capital is limited, we could suffer reduced profit margins and be unable to grow our business organically or through acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility. Our debt agreements contain financial covenants and other restrictions that limit our operating flexibility, limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including: •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; •limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and •placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less leverage or better access to capital resources. In addition, each of our credit facility and term loan requires that we comply with various financial tests and imposes certain restrictions on us, including among other things, restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens on assets, make loans or investments or pay dividends. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period due to: •demand for natural products; •changes in our operating expenses, including fuel and insurance expenses; •management's ability to execute our business and growth strategies; •changes in customer preferences, including levels of enthusiasm for health, fitness and environmental issues; •fluctuation of natural product prices due to competitive pressures; •personnel changes; •general economic conditions; •supply shortages, including a lack of an adequate supply of high-quality agricultural products due to poor growing conditions, natural disasters or otherwise; •volatility in prices of high-quality agricultural products resulting from poor growing conditions, natural disasters or otherwise; and •future acquisitions, particularly in periods immediately following the consummation of such acquisition transactions while the operations of the acquired businesses are being integrated into our operations. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful and that such comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to significant governmental regulation. Our business is highly regulated at the federal, state and local levels and our products and distribution operations require various licenses, permits and approvals. In particular: •our products are subject to inspection by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; •our warehouse and distribution facilities are subject to inspection by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and state health authorities; and •the U.S. Department of Transportation and the U.S. Federal Highway Administration regulate our trucking operations. The loss or revocation of any existing licenses, permits or approvals or the failure to obtain any additional licenses, permits or approvals in new jurisdictions where we intend to do business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, as a distributor and manufacturer of natural, organic, and specialty foods, we are subject to increasing governmental scrutiny of and public awareness regarding food safety and the sale, packaging and marketing of natural and organic products. Compliance with these laws may impose a significant burden on our operations. If we were to manufacture or distribute foods that are or are perceived to be contaminated, any resulting product recalls, such as the peanut-related recall in January 2009, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Product liability claims could have an adverse effect on our business. Like any other distributor and processor of food, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if the products we manufacture or sell cause injury or illness. We may be subject to liability, which could be substantial, because of actual or alleged contamination in products manufactured or sold by us, including products sold by companies before we acquired them. We have, and the companies we have acquired have had, liability insurance with respect to product liability claims. This insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or at all, and may not be adequate to cover product liability claims against us or against companies we have acquired. We generally seek contractual indemnification from manufacturers, but any such indemnification is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party. If we or any of our acquired companies do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability claims and costs associated with product recalls, including a loss of business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are dependent on a number of key executives. Management of our business is substantially dependent upon the services of certain key management employees. Loss of the services of any officers or any other key management employee could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Union-organizing activities could cause labor relations difficulties. As of August 1, 2009, we had approximately 6,000 full and part-time employees. An aggregate of approximately 6.3% of our total employees, or approximately 374 of the employees at our Auburn, Washington, Edison, New Jersey, Iowa City, Iowa and Leicester, Massachusetts facilities, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Edison, New Jersey, Auburn, Washington, Leicester, Massachusetts and Iowa City, Iowa agreements expire in June 2011, February 2012, March 2013 and June 2011, respectively. We have in the past been the focus of union-organizing efforts. As we increase our employee base and broaden our distribution operations to new geographic markets, our increased visibility could result in increased or expanded union-organizing efforts. Although we have not experienced a work stoppage to date, if additional employees were to unionize or we are not successful 17 Table of Contents in reaching agreement with these employees, we could be subject to work stoppages and increases in labor costs, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. In recent periods, there has been significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including the following: •our quarterly operating results or the operating results of other distributors of organic or natural food and non-food products and of supernatural chains and conventional supermarkets and other of our customers; •changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or the organic or natural food and non-food product distribution industries; •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions; •increases in labor, energy, fuel costs or the costs of food products; and •natural disasters, severe weather conditions or other developments affecting us or our competitors. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 