Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The discussion below highlights some of the risks that may affect future operating results. Information provided by us from time to time, including statements in this Form 10-K that are not historical facts, consists of so-called “forward-looking statements” that involve risks and uncertainties, made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In particular, statements contained in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations that are not historical facts (including, but not limited to, statements concerning: our plans and objectives; expectations for sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses; developments relating to our product and service offerings, markets and acquisitions; anticipated trends in our business; our strategic alliances; changes in the regulatory environment; our expected liquidity and capital resources and our critical accounting policies) may constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are neither promises nor guarantees, but are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause these kinds of differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below and the other risks discussed from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our future operating results are uncertain and difficult to predict. We incorporated and shipped our initial facsimile software products in 1991. We had an operating loss in the year ended December 31, 2005 and, although we recorded an operating profit in the year ended December 31, 2004, we had an operating loss and a decline in revenue for the year ending December 31, 2003. We introduced the initial version of our AccuRoute product in the second quarter of 2002 and the current version in the first quarter of 2004. Ultimately, our AccuRoute product represented 50% and 38% of software revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our level of revenue or become profitable again in the future, as our operating history makes the accurate prediction of future operating results difficult or impossible. We do, however, anticipate increases in operating expenses and, together with pricing pressures and any decline in the growth rate of the overall United States economy or our industry in particular, we may experience a decrease in our operating income and operating margin percentage. Our ability to improve our operating results will depend upon, among other things, our ability to increase sales of our AccuRoute, Genifax and Genidocs products to new customers, as well as our ability to increase product penetration into existing customers. We recently expanded our strategic focus to include document routing and distribution software. To date, we have limited financial and operating data and a limited operating history relevant to this strategy. Accordingly, it is difficult to evaluate the prospects for the level of acceptance of this strategy. In addition, we plan to continue investing significantly in the expansion of our AccuRoute product into new vertical markets, specifically first the financial services vertical market and then the healthcare vertical market, in advance of significant related revenue from those markets. We cannot predict the timing or level of revenue resulting from these investments. Future operating results will depend on many other factors, including, without limitation, the degree and rate of growth of the markets in which we compete; the level of acceptance of the Microsoft Windows NT, Windows 2000™, Windows 2003™ and Windows XP® operating systems; the level of product and price competition; our ability to establish strategic relationships and develop and market new and enhanced products; our ability to control costs; our ability to expand our direct sales force and indirect distribution channels both domestically and internationally; and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. As a result, it is possible that in the future, our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. 16 All of our products are concentrated in the electronic document exchange market. To date, much of our revenue has been attributable to licenses of our facsimile-based enterprise solutions and related products and services. We expect these products and related services to continue to account for significant amounts of our future revenue. However, recently the amount of revenue attributable to licenses of these products has declined and there can be no assurances that this decline will not continue. Furthermore, we introduced our secure business-to-business electronic document exchange products, Genidocs and Genifax, to the market in the fourth quarter of 2000. Further, we introduced the initial version of our proprietary document and routing software, AccuRoute, in the second quarter of 2002 and the current version of that product in the first quarter of 2004. We have only recently begun to recognize a significant amount of revenue from our AccuRoute product. We expect this product to account for an increasing portion of future revenue. However, there can be no assurances that our AccuRoute product will be financially successful or result in any significant revenue in the future. Factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for this product, such as competition or technological change, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our products are concentrated in the electronic document exchange market and, therefore, any factors affecting demand for these sorts of solutions could cause our operating results to decline. Investors must evaluate our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies dependent upon operating revenue from a new product line in an emerging and rapidly evolving market. The markets for our products are subject to rapid technological change and we may not be able to keep pace with evolving industry standards or end-user requirements. The markets for our products are relatively new and are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in end-user requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments and respond to evolving end-user requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products or product enhancements on a timely basis, or that new products or product enhancements developed by us, such as our AccuRoute, Genidocs and Genifax products, will achieve market acceptance. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. From time to time, we and our competitors may announce new products, capabilities or technologies that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing product offerings. There can be no assurance that announcements of new product offerings by us or our competitors will not cause customers to defer or forego the licensing of our existing or planned products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for secure business-to-business document exchange solutions is new and evolving rapidly and there can be no assurance that our products will be successful in this market. The market for Genidocs, our secure business-to-business electronic document exchange solution is relatively new and evolving rapidly. Our success will depend upon the extent and timing of adoption and use by current and potential customers of secure business-to-business electronic document exchange solutions. Our success will also depend upon acceptance of our technology as the standard for providing these solutions. The adoption and use of our secure business-to-business electronic document exchange solution will involve changes in the manner in which businesses have traditionally exchanged information. Our ability to influence usage of our secure business-to-business electronic document exchange solution by customers is limited. We intend to spend resources educating potential customers about the value of secure business-to-business electronic document exchange solutions. It is difficult to assess or to predict with any assurance the present and future size of the potential market for our secure business-to-business electronic document exchange solution, or the growth rate, if any, for this market. Moreover, we cannot predict whether our secure business-to-business electronic document exchange solution will achieve any market acceptance. We note that we did not make any sales of our Genidocs product in the fiscal year 2005. If any of our future 17 products or future product enhancements are not favorably received by our customers, we may be less or not profitable and we may therefore suffer damage to our reputation or brand name. Were we to suffer an unexpectedly large decline in our legacy fax business, our financial condition and results of operations would be significantly impaired. We currently derive a significant though declining portion of our revenue from licenses of our Genifax product, related services and resale of related hardware. However, sales of Genifax, our multi-tiered client/server software for automating and integrating fax communications throughout an enterprise, were lower in 2005 than they were in 2004 or 2003. Though we expect our sales of our legacy fax products to continue to decline in 2006, an unexpectedly large decline in the market acceptance of our Genifax product would have a negative impact on our future success. As a result, any unexpectedly large decline in demand for or failure to maintain expected market acceptance of our Genifax product line as a result of competition, technological change or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future financial performance will depend in part on new and enhanced versions of our Genifax product. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in marketing our Genifax product or any new or enhanced versions of the Genifax product at expected levels. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing products for new or enhanced operating systems such as Microsoft’s Windows 2000 or Windows XP system, or that these systems will not obviate the need for our products. If any new or enhanced operating system gains widespread use and we fail to develop and provide our products for this operating system on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We depend on the revenue generated by sales of our AccuRoute product and would be negatively impacted if market interest – whether in the legal vertical market that we have already targeted or the financial services and healthcare vertical markets that we are currently targeting – were to decline or fail to grow as expected. We currently derive a significant portion of our revenue from licenses of our AccuRoute product and related services. Sales of AccuRoute were higher in 2005 than they were in 2004. Continued market acceptance of our AccuRoute product is critical to our future success. As a result, any decline in demand for or failure to maintain broad market acceptance of our AccuRoute product line as a result of competition, technological change or otherwise would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on new and enhanced versions of our AccuRoute product. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in marketing our AccuRoute product in the legal vertical market or that our marketing efforts in the financial services and healthcare vertical markets will be successful. Further, there can be no assurance that any new or enhanced versions of our AccuRoute product will be successful. We have historically depended on our sales of fax products to generate revenue and could face a decline in overall revenue if the declines we face in this market are larger than expected. Our enterprise client/server facsimile software products are intended to help organizations efficiently manage their facsimile communications, utilizing a client/server computing environment. There can be no assurance that organizations will move away from the use of stand-alone fax machines or continue to adopt client/server environments, or that those of our customers who have begun the migration to a client/server environment will broadly implement this model of computing. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on our ability to capture an expected portion of the market for client/server applications. The size of this market will depend in part on the growth in the number of organizations implementing client/server computing environments. There can be no assurance that these markets will continue to grow or that we will be able to capture sales to or respond effectively to the evolving requirements of these markets. If the market for client/server application products and services does not grow in the future, grows more slowly than we anticipate or if we fail to respond effectively to evolving requirements of this market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 18 Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and any failure to maintain that listing could significantly impair our stock price and our ability to raise future capital. We cannot predict our ability to maintain our listing in the future on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market, if that were to occur, could materially impair stockholders’ ability to buy and sell shares of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for, our common stock. Furthermore, the delisting of our common stock could significantly impair our ability to raise capital should we desire to do so in the future. The markets in which we sell our products are characterized by intense and growing competition and our future success is dependent on our ability to distinguish our products from those of our competitors and reach our target customers. In the distributed document capture and delivery market in which our AccuRoute software competes, we are likely to see competitive products being offered by hardware vendors such as Xerox Corporation, Canon, Inc., Ricoh Co., Ltd., Lexmark, Inc. and others . In some cases these products are the result of partnerships with U.S.-based software companies. We also expect competition in this market from a number of independent software vendors whose business focus was initially the high volume production scanning segment such as Kofax (a Dicom Group, plc company) and EMC Corporation (formerly Captiva Software), or forms management and process routing companies such as Cardiff Software (an Autonomy Group company). e-Copy, Inc., a former Omtool business partner, has formed a relationship with Canon and has embedded their document capture and routing capabilities into the front panel of the Canon ImageRunner® Multifunction Printer (“MFP”) device. Other potential software competitors include ScanSoft, as well as document management vendors like Hummingbird Ltd. and Interwoven, Inc. who are seeking to develop, either through partnerships or internal resources, scan-to-archive capabilities using standard e-mail as the transport and a generic document profile as a means of entering the content into their repository. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the distributed document capture and delivery market depends upon a number of factors both within and beyond our control including product performance; reliability and features; ease of use; product scalability; quality of support services; price as compared to performance; timeliness of enhancements and new product releases by us and our competitors. We expect this market to mature and become increasingly competitive with success resulting from the formation of critical partnerships and alliances with both selected hardware and software partners. The market for client/server computer-based facsimile solutions is also competitive and is more established and mature than the markets in which the AccuRoute and Genidocs products compete. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the fax market depends upon a number of factors both within and beyond our control including product performance; reliability and features; ease of use; product scalability; quality of support services; price/performance; timeliness of enhancements and new product releases by us and our competitors. Given these factors, we believe that in order to be successful, we must continue our focus on delivering a core, modular and scalable product on one of the most prolific system platforms, Microsoft Windows 2000 and Windows 2003, with features that appeal to the broadest segment of the electronic document exchange market, which includes fax and all of the other document control and management features that we offer. We compete directly with a number of vendors of facsimile products, including providers of facsimile software products for client/server networks such as Captaris (with its RightFax product), Dicom (with its TopCall product) and Biscom (with its suite of fax products). We also compete with providers offering a range of alternative facsimile solutions including outsourcing network facsimile solutions, such as Easylink Services Corporation (with its Document Capture and Management Sonic product) and Premiere Global Services/Xpedite (with its DocuManager product); operating systems containing facsimile and document e-mail features; low-end fax modem products; providers of desktop fax software; single-platform facsimile software products; and customized proprietary software solutions. In addition, providers of operating 19 systems or business software applications may bundle competitive facsimile solutions as part of their broader product offerings. In the intensely competitive and rapidly changing business-to-business secure document exchange market, we compete directly with Authentica, Inc.; Secure Data in Motion, Inc. (d/b/a Sigaba); Tumbleweed Communications Corp.; and Fix Corporation and a number of other providers. There are also other categories of technology solutions that overlap and compete in certain ways with aspects of our products. These include: · Document management solutions from vendors such as EMC Corporation (following its acquisitions of Documentum, Inc. and Captiva Software), Hummingbird Ltd. and Interwoven, Inc. (following its merger with iManage) whose electronic collaboration solutions compete with certain aspects of our solutions; · Electronic forms and electronic signature solutions from vendors such as Adobe Systems Incorporated, IBM Corporation (following its acquisition of PureEdge Solutions, Inc.) Silanis Technology, Inc. that offer the creation of electronic documents with electronic signatures; and · Security infrastructure solutions from vendors such as Verisign, Inc. and Entrust, Inc. whose solutions can be used to build applications that enable secure document communications. We expect the level of competition in the business-to-business secure document exchange market to increase over time. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, as well as greater name recognition and market acceptance of their products and technologies than we do. In addition, there are relatively low barriers to entry in the markets in which we operate and intend to operate, and new competition may arise either from expansion by established companies or from new emerging companies or from resellers of our products. There can be no assurance that our current or potential competitors will not develop products comparable or superior – in terms of price and performance features – to those are developed. Further, our competitors may adapt more quickly than we do to new or emerging technologies and changes in market opportunities or customer requirements, establish alliances with industry leaders or take advantage of acquisition opportunities more readily than we can or do. In addition, no assurance can be given that we will not be required to make substantial additional investments in connection with our research, development, engineering, marketing, sales and customer service efforts in order to meet any competitive threat, or that those required investments will not have a material adverse effect on our operating margins. Changes in governing laws and regulations may also affect our ability to remain competitive. Increased competition may result in reduction in our market share, pressure for price reductions and related reductions in our gross margins, any of which could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our financial and business goals. There can be no assurance that, in the future, we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors. 20 Our business is subject to seasonality and fluctuations on a quarterly and annual basis due to the long sales cycle for our products and numerous other factors and, therefore, our results may vary from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Causes of these fluctuations have included and may include, among others: the demand for our products and services; the size and timing of orders; the number, timing and significance of new product announcements by us and our competitors; our ability to develop, introduce, market and ship new and enhanced versions of our current and planned products on a timely basis; the level of product and price competition; changes in operating expenses; changes in average selling prices and mix of our products; changes in our sales incentive strategy; the mix of direct and indirect sales; and general economic factors, including factors affecting the overall U.S. economy and the demand for enterprise information technology solutions. In addition, the sale of our products often involves delays because customers tend to implement the products they purchase from us on a large scale, requiring them first to establish certain minimum hardware capabilities. Moreover, we have historically experienced some seasonal fluctuations in the sales of our products, due to the fact that many companies make information technology purchases either early or late in their fiscal years (when they either have a replenished annual budget or leftover money in the budget) and more frequently scheduled vacations of key personnel at customers during the summer months (particularly in Europe). Our products therefore often have a lengthy sales cycle while potential customers evaluate and receive approvals for the purchase of our products. During these sales cycles, we may expend substantial funds and management efforts, yet receive no revenue. It is difficult to predict accurately the sales cycle of any large order. If one or more large orders fail to close as forecasted in a fiscal quarter, our revenue and operating results for that quarter could be materially adversely affected. Any one or more of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The potential occurrence of any one or more of these factors makes the prediction of revenue and results of operations on a quarterly basis difficult and performance forecasts derived from these predictions unreliable. In addition, we may invest in research and development and marketing expenses in order to promote further our products within current or new vertical markets, including our current plan to incur additional sales and marketing expenses as we first target the financial services vertical market and then, shortly thereafter, the healthcare market with our AccuRoute software product. Because we must make these investments in advance of related market acceptance of and revenue from our AccuRoute product in those vertical markets, any failure of our products to achieve planned levels of acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations on a quarter-to-quarter basis and overall. In general, it is difficult for us to forecast revenue because the market for secure business-to-business electronic document exchange, enterprise client/server facsimile solutions software and routing and distribution software is evolving rapidly and our sales cycle – from the customer’s initial evaluation through purchase of licenses and the related support services – varies substantially from customer to customer. License fee revenue in any quarter depends on orders received and shipped in that quarter, with a significant percentage of orders in any quarter arriving in the last weeks of the quarter. License fee revenue from quarter-to-quarter is difficult to forecast, as no significant order backlog exists at the end of any quarter because our products typically are shipped upon receipt of customers’ orders. A substantial portion of our operating expense is related to personnel, facilities, equipment and marketing programs. The level of spending for these expenses cannot be adjusted quickly and is therefore fixed in the short term. Our expense levels for personnel, facilities, equipment and marketing programs are based, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue on a quarterly basis. If actual revenue levels on a quarterly basis are below our expectations, our results of operations are likely to be adversely affected by a similar amount because a relatively small amount of our expense varies with our revenue in the short term. 21 Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is likely that in some future periods our results of operations will be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. In addition to direct sales, we utilize indirect sales and distribution channels and strategic alliances with compatible partners in order to broaden sales of our products. Any failure on our part to form and leverage relationships with these indirect sales and distribution channel partners could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. We market our products and services directly through telesales and indirectly through marketing channels such as value added resellers (“VARs”), systems integrators, distributors and strategic business partners. Although we have historically focused our efforts on marketing through our direct sales force, we continue to utilize resources to develop and expand our indirect marketing channels. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified VARs, systems integrators, distributors and strategic business partners, or that those third parties will successfully market our products. In addition, there can be no assurance that our resellers and strategic business partners will not develop, acquire or market computer-based electronic document exchange, document routing and distribution and facsimile products that are competitive with our products. The failure to retain our VARs, systems integrators, distributors and strategic partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The distributor agreements governing our relationships with third party distribution chain partners generally provide that either party may terminate the agreement without cause upon 30 days written notice to the other party. We also resell our products on a purchase order basis through other VARs, systems integrators and distributors. Generally, in those situations, either party may terminate the relationship at any time, and therefore there can be no assurance that any VAR, systems integrator or distributor will continue to represent and sell our products. Furthermore, our strategic alliances generally may be terminated by either party, at any time; there can therefore be no assurances that these strategic alliances will continue. The inability to retain certain VARs, systems integrators, distributors or strategic business partners, or the development or marketing by VARs, systems integrators, distributors or strategic business partners of competitive offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Selling through indirect channels may limit our contacts with our customers, thereby hindering our ability to accurately forecast sales, evaluate customer satisfaction and recognize emerging customer requirements. Our strategy of marketing our products directly to end-users and indirectly through VARs, systems integrators and distributors may result in distribution channel conflicts. Our direct sales efforts may compete with those of our indirect channels and, to the extent different resellers target the same customers, resellers may also come into conflict with each other. As we strive to expand our indirect distribution channels, there can be no assurance that emerging channel conflicts will not materially adversely affect our relationships with existing VARs, systems integrators or distributors or adversely affect our ability to attract new VARs, systems integrators and distributors. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to expand our sales internationally, which will subject us to regulatory, exchange rate and other risks that might hinder our ability to meet our targets for international sales and might impair our results of operation. An element of our strategy is to increase our international sales. We expect to face competition from secure business-to-business electronic document exchange solutions and local facsimile product providers in the foreign countries in which we attempt to sell our products. To maintain and grow our international sales, we need to recruit and retain additional international resellers and distributors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain international sales of our products or that our international distribution channels will be able to adequately market, service and support our products. International operations generally are subject to certain risks, including dependence on independent resellers, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, compliance with foreign regulatory and market requirements, variability of foreign economic conditions 22 and changing restrictions imposed by United States export laws. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, costs of localizing products for foreign countries, lack of acceptance of localized products in foreign countries, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, difficulties in managing international operations, difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. We currently have a sales office in the United Kingdom. Our non-United States presence subjects us to certain additional risks including difficulties in staffing and managing these foreign operations and potentially adverse tax consequences including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations. To date, a majority of our sales have been made in United States dollars and we have not engaged in any hedging transactions through the purchase of derivative securities or otherwise. Our United Kingdom subsidiary transacts business primarily in its local currency. We translate our United Kingdom subsidiary’s operating results into U.S. dollars and consolidate them with our domestic results for reporting purposes. As we make sales to customers in a variety of countries, significant currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material impact on our results of operations. Given the nature of our business, we may not be able to obtain sufficient or attractive financing, should that become necessary. We expect that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments will meet our normal working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. We may, however, need to raise additional funding at that time or earlier if we decide to undertake more rapid expansion, including acquisitions of complementary products or technologies, or if we increase our marketing and/or research and development efforts in order to respond to competitive pressures. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. We may obtain additional financing by issuing shares of our common stock, which could dilute our existing stockholders. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products or respond appropriately to competitive pressures, which would seriously harm our business. We may not successfully complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions we do make, which could impair our ability to compete and could harm our operating results. We may augment our internal growth with acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies that could complement or expand our business. Certain of these businesses may be only marginally profitable or even unprofitable. In order to achieve anticipated benefits from these acquisitions, we will have to successfully integrate the acquired businesses with our existing operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in this regard. We have limited experience in integrating acquired companies into our operations, in expanding the scope of operations of required businesses, in managing geographically dispersed operations and in operating internationally. In the past, we have incurred one-time costs and expenses in connection with acquisitions and it is likely that we could incur similar one-time costs and expenses in connection with future acquisitions. In addition, we might be required to amortize significant intangible assets in connection with future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our operating results. Further, attractive acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including competition among prospective buyers and the possible need to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete future acquisitions. In order to finance potential future acquisitions, we may need to raise additional funds either through public or private financings, including bank borrowings. Any financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Finally, we may also issue shares of our common stock to acquire attractive businesses, which may dilute our existing stockholders. Our future success depends on our ability to manage the growth and expansion of our business. We may expand our operations as we anticipate that expansion may be required in order to address potential 23 market opportunities. We may also increase the size of our sales and marketing and research and development expenditures as necessary. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete this expansion successfully or that the expansion would generate sufficient revenue to cover our expenses. We will need to continue to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or continue to hire this kind of personnel in the future or to retain this kind of personnel in a sufficiently timely manner. Our inability to effectively expand operations and manage growth, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may be limited. Pursuant to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we must maintain and enhance our internal control over financial reporting. Presently, we are not an “accelerated filer” or a “large accelerated filer” as those terms are defined in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As a result, we are not required to deliver a report regarding our determination of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until we file our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Further, under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, in connection with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to deliver an attestation report regarding management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we expended considerable time, attention and resources to determining the strength and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and, where appropriate, making improvements. In fiscal years 2006 and 2007, we will continue expending considerable time, attention and resources to determining the strength and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and, where appropriate, making improvements. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors and intentional misrepresentations. Any system of internal controls can only provide reasonable assurance that all control objectives have been and will continue to be met. Some of the potential risks involved could include, without limitation, management judgments, simple errors or mistakes, willful misconduct regarding controls or misinterpretation. Though we believe that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are effective, there can be no guarantee that existing controls and procedures will prevent or detect all material issues, errors or intentional misrepresentations. Further, our existing controls may not be effective in future situations. Any failure of our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operation. Our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting may identify weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we need to remedy or may raise other issues of concern for our investors. Should we determine that a material weakness exists in our internal control over financial reporting, the price of our common stock might decline. Our reliance on a sole hardware supplier could adversely impact our business. We currently purchase hardware products for sale to our customers from a single third-party supplier. We do not have a long-term, fixed-price or minimum volume contract with this supplier. Instead, we order hardware equipment through purchase orders from time to time. We do not carry significant inventories of these hardware products and do not have a guaranteed supply arrangement with this supplier. Recently, our sole supplier of hardware products was sold to a third-party. We do not believe that this change of ownership will impact our ability to purchase hardware products from this supplier or the terms under which we make those purchases. Were this supplier to raise its prices or refocus its business, we might be negatively impacted as we would have to develop a new supply relationship for these products. Although we believe that we could secure these hardware products from alternative suppliers, in the event of a disruption of supply from this sole supplier, we might not be able to develop an alternative source in a timely manner or at favorable 24 prices. Even if we were able to purchase these hardware components from alternative sources, we would have little control over the costs of these products. Were we forced to pay significantly higher prices for these hardware products, it might limit the mark-up over the price paid by us that we can reasonably charge our customers. Were we unable to provide this hardware to our customers, forcing our customers to buy this hardware directly from third parties, or were we forced to decrease the size of our mark-up, our hardware and total revenue would be negatively impacted. We will face additional expenses and disruption due to the upcoming relocation of our corporate headquarters. We lease office space, used as our headquarters and primary business location, at 8A Industrial Way in Salem, New Hampshire. Our current lease terminated on December 31, 2005 and we have remained in this space on a month-to-month arrangement. In January 2006, we entered into a lease for new office space at Six Riverside Drive in Andover, Massachusetts. We intend to move our headquarters to the new premises in April 2006. As a result, we will incur related expenses and will encounter disruption of operations related to the move, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We are dependent on our key personnel and any inability to retain or hire key personnel could impact our business and results of operations. Our future performance depends, in significant part, upon the continued service of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel, most of whom are not bound by employment agreements or noncompetition agreements. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel, particularly in light of our expanded AccuRoute sales and marketing strategy. Competition for highly qualified personnel is intense and we have historically experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified technical personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or continue to hire key technical, sales and managerial personnel in the future. 