ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following is a discussion of significant risk factors relevant to DXP’s business that could adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this and other periodic reports, and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common s tock. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. 10 Our future results will be impacted by our ability to implement our internal growth strategy. Our future results will depend in part on our success in implementing our internal growth strategy, which includes expanding our existing geographic areas, selling additional products to existing customers and adding new customers. Our ability to implement this strategy will depend on our success in selling more products and services to existing customers, acquiring new customers, hiring qualified sales persons, and marketing integrated forms of supply management such as those being pursued by us through our SmartSourceSM program. Although we intend to increase sales and product offerings to existing customers, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. Risks Associated With Acquisition Strategy Our future results will depend in part on our ability to successfully implement our acquisition strategy. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions at rates similar to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate and our stock price. This strategy includes taking advantage of a consolidation trend in the industry and effecting acquisitions of businesses with complementary or desirable new product lines, strategic distribution locations, attractive customer bases or manufacturer relationships. Promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including high valuations, competition among prospective buyers, the need for regulatory (including antitrust) approvals and the availability of affordable funding in the capital markets. In addition, competition for acquisitions in our business areas is significant and may result in higher purchase prices. Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or instability in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions. In addition, acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results, diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business, risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities, and expenses associated with obsolete inventory of an acquired business, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to grow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate companies and businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated cost savings. Risks Related to Acquisition Financing We may need to finance acquisitions by using shares of Common Stock for a portion or all of the consideration to be paid. In the event that the Common Stock does not maintain a sufficient market value, or potential acquisition candidates are otherwise unwilling to accept Common Stock as part of the consideration for the sale of their businesses, we may be required to use more of our cash resources, if available, to maintain our acquisition program. These cash resources may include borrowings under our credit agreement or equity or debt financings. . Our current credit agreement with our bank lenders contains certain restrictions that could adversely affect our ability to implement and finance potential acquisitions. Such restrictions include a provision prohibiting us from merging or consolidating with, or acquiring all or a substantial part of the properties or capital stock of, any other entity without the prior written consent of the lenders. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the lender’s consent to any of our proposed acquisitions. If we do not have sufficient cash resources, our growth could be limited unless we are able to obtain additional capital through debt or equity financings. Ability to Comply with Financial Covenants of Credit Facility Our credit facility requires the Company to comply with certain specified covenants, restrictions, financial ratios and other financial and operating tests. The Company’s ability to comply with any of the foregoing restrictions will depend on its future performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors beyond the Company’s control. A failure to comply with any of these obligations could result in an event of default under the credit facility, which could permit acceleration of the Company’s indebtedness under the credit facility. The Company from time to time has been unable to comply with some of the financial covenants contained in the credit facility (relating to, among other things, the maintenance of prescribed financial rati os) and has, when necessary, obtained waivers or amendments to the covenants from its lenders. Although the Company expects to be able to comply with the covenants, including the financial covenants, of the credit facility, there can be no assurance that in the future the Company will be able to do so or, if is not able to do so, that its lenders will be willing to waive such compliance or further amend such covenants. 11 Goodwill and intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become impaired. Goodwill represents the difference between the purchase price of acquired companies and the related fair values of net assets acquired. We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. As of December 31, 2010, our combined goodwill and intangible assets amounted to $86.3 million, net of accumulated amortization. To the extent we do not generate sufficient cash flows to recover the net amount of any investments in goodwill and other intangible assets recorded, the investment could be considered impaired and subject to write-off. We expect to record further goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of future acquisitions we may complete. Future amortization of such other intangible assets or impairments, if any, of goodwill or intan gible assets would adversely affect our results of operations in any given period. Our business has substantial competition that could adversely affect our results. Our business is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of industrial supply distributors, some of which may have greater financial and other resources than us. Although many of our traditional distribution competitors are small enterprises selling to customers in a limited geographic area, we also compete with larger distributors that provide integrated supply programs such as those offered through outsourcing services similar to those that are offered by our SCS segment. Some of these large distributors may be able to supply their products in a more timely and cost-efficient manner than us. Our competitors include catalog suppliers, large warehouse stores and, to a lesser extent, certain manufacturers. Competitive pressures could adversely affect DXP’s sales and profitability. The loss of or the failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely impact our results of operations. We will continue to be dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts and ability of David R. Little, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Little or any other executive officer of our Company could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our ability to grow successfully will be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management and technical and operational personnel. The failure to attract and retain such persons could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The loss of any key supplier could adversely affect DXP’s sales and profitability. We have distribution rights for certain product lines and depend on these distribution rights for a substantial portion of our business. Many of these distribution rights are pursuant to contracts that are subject to cancellation upon little or no prior notice. Although we believe that we could obtain alternate distribution rights in the event of such a cancellation, the termination or limitation by any key supplier of its relationship with the Company could result in a temporary disruption of our business and, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A slowdown in the economy could negatively impact DXP’s sales growth. Economic and industry trends affect DXP’s business. Demand for our products is subject to economic trends affecting our customers and the industries in which they compete in particular. Many of these industries, such as the oil and gas industry, are subject to volatility while others, such as the petrochemical industry, are cyclical and materially affected by changes in the economy. As a result, demand for our products could be adversely impacted by changes in the markets of our customers. 12 Interruptions in the proper functioning of our information systems could disrupt operations and cause increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues. The proper functioning of DXP’s information systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. Although DXP’s information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities exist, our information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, telecommunication failures and other problems. If critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, DXP’s ability to procure products to sell, process and ship customer orders, identify business opportunities, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable and pay accounts payable and expenses could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 