Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this report. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction Monster Worldwide, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company,” “Monster,” “Monster Worldwide,” “we,” “our” or “us”), the parent company of Monster®, is the worldwide leader in successfully connecting people to job opportunities. From the web, to mobile, to social, Monster helps companies find people with customized solutions using advanced technologies to match the right person to the right job. With a local presence in more than 40 countries, Monster connects employers with quality job seekers at all levels, provides personalized career advice to consumers globally and delivers vast, highly targeted audiences to advertisers. Our principal executive offices are located at 622 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Our telephone number is (212) 351-7000 and our Internet address for corporate information is http://www.about-monster.com. Our predecessor business was founded in 1967, and our current company was incorporated in Delaware and became a public company in 1996. We make all of our public filings with the SEC available on our http://www.about-monster.com website, free of charge, under the caption “Investor Relations — SEC Filings.” Included in these filings are our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, which are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Our Strategy Monster Worldwide’s long-term business strategy is designed to capitalize on the numerous opportunities that exist in the global online recruitment marketplace and related markets. Our strategy calls for strategic investment in product, technology, brand support and customer service to expand our global leadership position in an effort to achieve long-term growth and profitability and create shareholder value. In support of this strategy, we continue to invest in our operations on a global basis while controlling the growth of operating expenses. Monster’s focus is on the needs of its customers, both employers and job seekers. Our advanced products and services are intended to improve the seeker experience while also developing deeper relationships with our employer customers. Through innovative products and a rebuilt website, we offer greater value to all job seekers who look to manage their careers, even those seekers who are not actively engaged in a job search. Our product offerings and services are designed to enhance seeker engagement and increase job response rate. We believe that more active seeker engagement will translate directly into higher quality candidates for our employer customers. For employers, our tools and features allow them to more efficiently and effectively attract and find the most relevant candidates for their job openings. Our investments in our technology platform have allowed us to deliver innovative products and services on a global basis. We have consolidated several technology systems and have created a platform that is more secure, scalable and redundant. In 2008, we acquired Trovix Inc., a business that provides career-related products and services that utilize advanced search technology, focusing on key attributes such as skills, work history and education. Our patented 6Sense® semantic search and matching technology, which is based upon Trovix technology, is the backbone of a growing family of products for both job seekers and employers. Our innovative and proprietary semantic resume search product, Monster Power Resume Search® (“PRS”) is available to customers in North America, Germany, the United Kingdom and France. Our 6Sense technology transforms traditional keyword-based processes by assisting our customers in matching candidates to their required job specifications. For seekers, our 6Sense powered job search has changed how seekers explore, find and apply for jobs. We introduced our cloud based search product SeeMore® in the third quarter of 2011, which allows our customers to utilize our patented semantic search technology on their own talent databases. In 2007, we introduced the Career Ad Network (“CAN”) which is a recruitment-focused online advertising network. Globally CAN reaches, on average, 113 million internet users each month. Monster offers this product to customers in North America, major markets in Europe, and in Australia. We continue to improve our efficiency in acquiring audiences that our customers’ demand. CAN distributes our customers’ job advertisements across a broad array of targeted websites and is an effective way of expanding our customers’ pool of active and passive seekers. The value proposition to our customers is to find better quality candidates at a cost effective price. We expect to expand this offering to other international countries in which we operate as the opportunities present themselves. 4 Table of Contents To further expand our business in the North American online recruitment market, Monster acquired the assets exclusive to Yahoo! HotJobs (the “HotJobs Assets”) from Yahoo! Inc. (“Yahoo!”) on August 24, 2010, pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of February 3, 2010 between Monster and Yahoo!, for a purchase price of $225.0 million. Concurrent with the closing of the acquisition, Monster and Yahoo! entered into a three year commercial traffic agreement whereby Monster became Yahoo!’s exclusive provider of career and job content on the Yahoo! homepage in the United States and Canada. This traffic agreement has increased our reach in North America. In February 2011, the Company completed the integration of the HotJobs website onto the Company’s platform, which enables job seekers to benefit from the increased availability of jobs and precise search capabilities, and enables employers to benefit from the increased volume and quality of seeker traffic. In June 2011, we launched BeKnown®, a professional networking application available on the Facebook platform to extend our global reach and leverage the world’s most popular global social network. This application allows Facebook members in more than 40 countries throughout North America, Europe, Australia and India and in more than 15 languages to establish a professional network on BeKnown. With BeKnown, users can seamlessly identify and connect with professional contacts from multiple sources and enhance their professional identities, while keeping their friends on Facebook separate from their professional contacts. Our Monster Government Solutions (“MGS”) sells online solutions to federal, state and local governments and educational institutions within the United States. We have experienced strong growth in MGS in 2011 and 2012, which now accounts for approximately 10% of our total business. In 2012, we expanded our MGS business to Europe and signed the largest international transaction in the Company’s history with the United Kingdom Government for over $20.0 million. MGS provides recruitment solutions that engage seekers and employers online, enable MGS customers to attract qualified candidates, expedite time to hire and create online communities using innovative technologies and services. These services primarily include customized career sites hosted by MGS utilizing a “Software as a Service” (“SaaS”) model. Additionally, we offer our customers application tracking services, diversity offerings and other ancillary services either directly or through alliances to meet the changing needs of our customers. We continue to actively and aggressively support the Monster brand in our core markets through strategic investments in both online and offline advertising and promotion. Our advertising and promotion activities are designed to drive quality visitors to Monster.com and our affiliated online properties. We have centralized our media purchases and changed the timing of our media buying to receive beneficial rates, resulting in greater efficiencies for our marketing expenditures. According to comScore Media Metrix, Monster held the leading traffic position in the United States in the Career Services and Development category throughout the majority of 2012 and ended the year with over 21 million monthly unique visitors. Our global sales structure allows us to sell and distribute our products and services to large, medium and small businesses on a local basis. Our objective is to offer existing customers additional products while expanding our coverage to attract new customers. We service existing and potential customers through a field sales force, telephone sales force and an online service, which we refer to as our “eCommerce” channel, where the customer can advertise jobs and access the resume database without sales force involvement. We have integrated our field and telesales forces in the United States and aligned our sales resources regionally so we can operate more efficiently and provide a high touch, consultative service to customers. In order to support our broadened product portfolio and our expanded sales resources, we have in-sourced, centralized and standardized our global call center operations to create a customer focused, proactive value added model. On March 1, 2012, the Company announced that it had resolved to explore strategic alternatives to maximize value for the Company’s stockholders. There can be no assurance that this process will result in the pursuit or consummation of any strategic transaction or that there will be a formal cessation of the process. In conjunction with the decision to explore strategic alternatives, we also committed to a series of restructuring actions throughout 2012 in order to improve the Company’s long-term growth prospects and profitability in its core markets. Most recently, the Company announced actions designed to concentrate resources on core businesses within North America and key European and Asian markets. As part of this effort, the Company exited our business operations in Latin America and Turkey in the fourth quarter of 2012 and sold our Careers-China business unit in February 2013. Our Services We operate in three reportable segments: Careers-North America; Careers-International; and Internet Advertising & Fees. For the year ended December 31, 2012, these operating segments represented approximately 52%, 39% and 9% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. Please see Note 16-Segment and Geographic Data to the Company’s financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our segment results. 5 Table of Contents Careers (North America and International) Monster is the premier global online and mobile employment solution, matching the right person to the right job. Monster has a presence in more than 40 countries around the world. We earned 39%, 40%, and 37% of our total revenue from continuing operations outside of North America in the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. With a local presence in key markets in North America, Europe, and Asia, Monster works by connecting employers with quality job seekers at all levels and by providing searchable jobs and career management resources online. We have been able to build on Monster’s brand and create worldwide awareness by offering online recruiting solutions that we believe are redefining the way employers and job seekers connect. For the employer, our goal is to provide the most effective solutions and easiest to use technology to simplify the hiring process and deliver access to our community of job seekers. For job seekers, our purpose is to improve their careers by providing work-related content, services and advice. Our services and solutions include: searchable job postings; resume database access; recruitment media solutions throughout our network; and other career-related content. Job seekers can search our job postings and post their resumes on each of our career websites. Employers and human resources companies pay to: advertise jobs; search our resume database; and utilize career site hosting and other services such as recruitment media. Monster has traditionally targeted the enterprise market, or those businesses that we consider to be among the 1,500 largest organizations globally. We have increased our efforts to expand our penetration into the small-to-medium sized businesses (“SMBs”), those businesses with approximately 10 to 2,000 employees that operate primarily in local and regional markets. We currently have alliances with media and publishing companies, including approximately 1,000 newspapers in the United States, which extends our presence with local and regional job seekers. Internet Advertising & Fees Our Internet Advertising & Fees business operates a network of websites that connect companies to highly targeted audiences at critical stages in their lives. Our goal is to offer compelling online services for the users of such websites through personalization, community features and enhanced content. We monetize this web traffic through display advertising and lead generation. We believe that these properties appeal to advertisers and other third parties as they deliver certain discrete demographics entirely online. Beginning in the third quarter of 2011, the Company no longer engages in arbitrage lead generation activities due to the diminishing profit opportunity and the promulgation of new regulations applicable to the Company’s customers in the for-profit education business. Revenue for the Internet Advertising & Fees segment is derived primarily from two types of services: display advertising and lead generation. Display advertising opportunities have been integrated across the Monster Worldwide network of websites, allowing marketers to deliver targeted online advertising messages via numerous sizes and formats of creative units. Consumers come to Monster’s websites for information and advice on how to manage critical life transitions, and this environment is typically seen by marketers as desirable for the promotion of products and services as consumers are actively looking for new ideas and solutions. Lead generation is a direct response business in which marketers pay for connections to consumers whose demographics match the requirements of specific business offerings and who request information about the offerings. Our large database of users and ongoing collection of numerous points of data allows us to provide our clients with targeted and valuable opportunities to connect with interested consumers. Sales and Marketing The Company’s sales resources consist of field sales, telesales, and a self service eCommerce channel. Our sales activities are geared towards enterprise, SMB, government agencies, advertising agencies and educational institutions. The field and telesales resources for our Careers business in the United States are regionalized to better serve our customers with a more high touch, consultative approach, while providing greater efficiencies for developing new business opportunities. We have specialty units within the sales organization, dedicated to serving our vertical markets, such as: government; healthcare; staffing; and newspapers. Our telesales staff is primarily responsible for telemarketing and customer service for SMBs and is located in our offices around the world. Our field sales staff focuses on both local and national clients and is also dispersed throughout our offices globally. Our eCommerce channel is available to all customer groups and is currently most heavily used by smaller employers. Our Internet Advertising & Fees sales force is located throughout the United States and is focused on cross-selling the products of each property within its network. The majority of our advertising budget is allocated to online advertising including: search engine marketing; alliances; and distributed job content to drive unique visitors to search for and apply to jobs. Our marketing approach also includes a regionally varied selection of traditional offline advertising such as: television; radio; and business, consumer and trade publications to market and promote the Monster brand and our innovative products and services. The majority of our marketing and promotion expense is allocated to our Careers—North America and Careers—International segments. 6 Table of Contents Customers Our customers are comprised of individuals, small and medium-sized organizations, enterprise organizations, federal, state and local government agencies and educational institutions. No one customer accounts for more than 5% of our total annual revenue. Competition The markets for our services and products are highly competitive and are characterized by pressure to win new customers, expand the market for our services and incorporate new capabilities and technologies. We face competition from a number of sources. These sources include other employment-related websites, including websites that aggregate job advertisements from multiple company websites and job sites; professional networking and social networking websites; general classified advertising websites; traditional media companies (primarily newspaper publishers); Internet portals; search engines; and general-interest websites such as blogs. The barriers to entry into Internet businesses like ours are relatively low. As a result, new competitors continuously arise. In addition to traditional competitors that provide products and services that are very similar to Monster’s core products and services, we face increasing competition from a broad range of competitor types. Jobs aggregator websites have become a significant source of competition, as they permit job seekers to search multiple company websites and job boards. Professional networking websites have had significant success over the past several years in gaining large numbers of members and attracting employer customers with products that compete directly with our products. Low-cost and free classified advertising websites have also gained increased acceptance with employers. Additionally, many niche career websites have been launched targeted at specific industry verticals, and many industry blogs and websites now provide employment advertising opportunities for employers within specific industries. Some of our competitors or potential competitors may have greater financial, management, technological, development, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, our ability to maintain our existing clients and generate new clients depends to a significant degree on the quality of our services, pricing and reputation among our clients and potential clients. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete are dependent in part on the protection of our domain names, trademarks, trade names, service marks, patents and other proprietary rights. We rely on copyright laws to protect the original website content that we develop. In addition, we rely on federal, state and foreign trademark laws to provide additional protection for the identifying marks appearing on and the design and appearance of our Internet sites. A degree of uncertainty exists concerning the application and enforcement of copyright and trademark laws with respect to the Internet, and there can be no assurance that existing laws will provide adequate protection for our original content or the appearance of our Internet sites. In addition, because copyright laws do not prohibit independent development of similar content, there can be no assurance that copyright laws will provide any competitive advantage to us. We also assert common law protection on certain names and marks that we have used in connection with our business activities. We rely on trade secret, copyright and patent laws to protect the proprietary technologies that we have developed to manage and improve our Internet sites and advertising services, but there can be no assurance that such laws will provide sufficient protection to us, that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to ours, or that third parties will not copy or otherwise obtain and use our technologies without authorization. We have obtained patents and applied for several other patents with respect to certain of our software systems, methods and related technologies, but there can be no assurance that any pending applications will be granted or that any patents will not in the future be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide us with a competitive advantage. In addition, we rely on certain technology licensed from third parties, and may be required to license additional technology in the future, for use in managing our Internet sites and providing related services to users and advertising customers. Our ability to generate fees from Internet commerce may also depend on data encryption and authentication technologies that we may be required to license from third parties. There can be no assurance that these third-party technology licenses will be available or will continue to be available to us on acceptable commercial terms or at all. The inability to enter into and maintain any of these technology licenses could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights could entail significant expense and could be difficult or impossible, particularly given the global nature of the Internet and the fact that the laws of other countries may afford us little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. 7 Table of Contents We have been named as defendants in lawsuits from time to time alleging that we infringed on patents of third parties. There can be no assurance that other third parties will not assert against us claims of patent, copyright or trademark infringement. We anticipate an increase in patent infringement claims involving Internet-related technologies as the number of products and competitors in this market grows and as related patents are issued. Further, there can be no assurance that third parties will not claim that we have misappropriated their trade secrets, creative ideas or formats or otherwise infringed their proprietary rights in connection with our Internet content or technology. Any claims of infringement or misappropriation, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management attention, and require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements. If a party claiming infringement is successful, we could be required to pay substantial licensing fees or compensatory or punitive damages, and we could be enjoined from using important technologies or methods. If we are enjoined, it may not be possible or commercially practical for us to develop or obtain and implement substitute technologies or methods that are not covered by the third party’s intellectual property. Any of these outcomes could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Employees As of January 31, 2013, including the remaining employees of the discontinued operations, we employed approximately 5,000 people worldwide, a decrease of 1,000 employees over the prior year, primarily resulting from our restructuring efforts. Executive Officers As of January 31, 2013, our executive officers were as follows: Name Age Position Salvatore Iannuzzi 59 Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer Timothy T. Yates 65 Executive Vice President, Director James M. Langrock 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lise Poulos 54 Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer Mark Stoever 45 Executive Vice President, Corporate Development and Internet Advertising Salvatore Iannuzzi has been our Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since April 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Iannuzzi served as President of Motorola, Inc.’s Enterprise Mobility business from January 2007 to April 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Iannuzzi served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Symbol Technologies, Inc. (“Symbol”), a publicly traded company engaged in the business of manufacturing and servicing products and systems used in end-to-end enterprise mobility solutions, from January 2006 to January 2007, when Symbol was sold to Motorola, Inc. He previously served as Symbol’s Interim President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer from August 2005 to January 2006 and as Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative and Control Officer from April 2005 to August 2005. He also served as a director of Symbol from December 2003 to January 2007, serving as the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board from December 2003 to April 2005. From August 2004 to April 2005, Mr. Iannuzzi was a partner in Saguenay Capital, a boutique investment firm. Prior thereto, from April 2000 to August 2004, Mr. Iannuzzi served as Chief Administrative Officer of CIBC World Markets. From 1982 to 2000, he held several senior positions at Bankers Trust Company/Deutsche Bank, including Senior Control Officer and Head of Corporate Compliance. Timothy T. Yates has been our Executive Vice President and a Director since June 2007. From June 2007 until January 2011, Mr. Yates also served as our Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Yates served as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and a director of Symbol from February 2006 to January 2007. From January 2007 to June 2007, he was a Senior Vice President of Motorola, Inc.’s Enterprise Mobility business responsible for Motorola’s integration of Symbol. From August 2005 to February 2006, Mr. Yates served as an independent consultant to Symbol. Prior to this, from October 2002 to November 2005, Mr. Yates served as a partner and Chief Financial Officer of Saguenay Capital, a boutique investment firm. Prior to that, he served as a founding partner of Cove Harbor Partners, a private investment and consulting firm, which he helped establish in 1996. From 1971 through 1995, Mr. Yates held a number of senior leadership roles at Bankers Trust New York Corporation, including serving as Chief Financial and Administrative Officer from 1990 through 1995. 8 Table of Contents James M. Langrock has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2011. From May 2008 until January 2011, Mr. Langrock served as the Company’s Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Langrock was Vice President, Finance of Motorola, Inc.’s Enterprise Mobility business from January 2007 to April 2008. From May 2005 to January 2007, Mr. Langrock served as the Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller at Symbol. From December 2003 to May 2005, Mr. Langrock was Symbol’s Vice President — Internal Audit. Before joining Symbol, he served as Chief Financial Officer at Empress International, Ltd., an importer and wholesale distributor, from May 2002 to November 2003. From 1991 to April 2002, Mr. Langrock held a variety of audit positions at Arthur Andersen LLP, including Senior Manager in the Audit and Business Advisory Practice. Lise Poulos has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since January 2008. Previously, she had served as Executive Vice President since September 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Poulos served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Motorola, Inc.’s Enterprise Mobility business from January 2007 to July 2007. From 1997 to January 2007, Ms. Poulos held various roles at Symbol, including Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Communications from August 2006 to January 2007, Vice President, Human Resources from November 2005 to August 2006 and Director, Human Resources from 2002 to November 2005. Prior to joining Symbol, Ms. Poulos worked at a major energy company and in the financial services industry. Mark Stoever has been our Executive Vice President, Corporate Development and Internet Advertising since October 2011. Previously, he had served as Executive Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategic Alliances from September 2008 to October 2011, as Executive Vice President, Internet Advertising & Fees from July 2007 to September 2008, and as Senior Vice President, Internet Advertising & Fees from July 2005 to July 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Stoever served as Executive Vice President of Decision Matrix Group, an investment fund specializing in technology market research, from January 2005 to May 2005. Prior to that, beginning in 1996 he held various management roles at Lycos, Inc., a global Internet content and service provider, most recently as President and Chief Executive Officer from October 2002 to November 2004. Prior to Lycos, Mr. Stoever held management roles at ON Technology Corporation, a software company, from 1994 to 1996, and at Microcom, Inc., a modem technology company, from 1989 to 1994. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The existing global economic and financial market environment has had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on our business and operations. Because demand for our services is sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity, our business has suffered during economic downturns. Many companies hire fewer employees when economic activity is slow. As a result, demand for our services is reduced, which leads to lower sales. If the economy does not fully recover or worsens, or unemployment remains at high levels, demand for our services and our sales may be further reduced. In addition, lower demand for our services may lead to lower prices for our services. The volatility in global financial markets may also limit our ability to access the capital markets at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. Accordingly, if the economy does not fully recover or worsens, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Risks associated with cuts in government spending could materially and adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. Reductions in government expenditures that have been or may be proposed or mandated could have a material adverse affect on our business, operations and financial condition. Government agencies may be limited in their ability to contract for Monster’s services due to any proposed or mandated spending cuts. In addition, there could be an overall negative impact on economic growth as a result of decreased government spending, which could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. We face risks relating to our foreign operations. We earned 42%, 33%, 39% of our total revenue from continuing operations outside of the United States in the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Such amounts are generally collected in local currencies. In addition, we generally pay operating expenses in local currencies. Therefore, we are at risk for exchange rate fluctuations between such local currencies and the United States dollar. Global foreign exchange markets have experienced periods of heightened volatility in recent years and we cannot predict the direction or magnitude of future currency fluctuations. A weakening of the currencies in which we generate sales relative to the currencies in which our costs are denominated may lower our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We are also subject to taxation in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, transactions between our foreign subsidiaries and us may be subject to United States and foreign withholding taxes. Applicable tax rates in foreign jurisdictions differ from those of the United States, and change periodically. The extent, if any, to which we will receive credit in the United States for taxes we pay in foreign jurisdictions will depend upon the application of limitations set forth in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as well as the provisions of any tax treaties that may exist between the United States and such foreign jurisdictions. Our international operations might not succeed or might fail to meet our expectations for a number of reasons, including: • general political uncertainty; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • competition from local recruiting services; • operational issues such as longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • seasonal reductions in business activity; • language and cultural differences; • taxation issues; • complex legal and regulatory requirements that may be uncertain and may change; and • issues relating to uncertainties of laws and enforcement relating to the regulation and protection of intellectual property. Also, we could be exposed to fines and penalties under United States laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, we cannot be sure that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. Any such violations could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our business and our operating results. Concerns regarding the European debt crisis and market perceptions concerning the instability of the euro could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financing. Concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. These concerns, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of the Company’s euro-denominated assets and obligations and lead to future economic slowdowns. We rely on the value of our brands, particularly Monster, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing. Our success depends on our brands and their value. Our business would be harmed if we were unable to adequately protect our brand names, particularly Monster. We believe that maintaining and expanding the Monster brand is an important aspect of our efforts to attract and expand our user and client base. We also believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the growing number of Internet sites and the relatively low barriers to entry. We have spent considerable money and resources to date on the establishment and maintenance of the Monster brand. We are devoting substantial resources to advertising, marketing and other brand-building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of the Monster brand. Despite this, we may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of the Monster brand and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of the Monster brand in a cost-effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed significantly. We also are susceptible to others imitating our products and brands, particularly our Monster brand, and infringing on our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, upon which we are dependent. While we believe we have strong trademark protection in the Monster brand worldwide in the careers and recruitment business, that protection does not extend fully to other businesses. Other companies and organizations use the “Monster” name, and more may do so in the future. This use could adversely affect our brand recognition and reputation if employers or job seekers confuse us with these other organizations. In addition, the laws of foreign countries do not necessarily protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Imitation of our products or brands, particularly our Monster brand, or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise reduce our revenues. 10 Table of Contents Our markets are highly competitive. The markets for our services are highly competitive. They are characterized by pressures to: • reduce prices; • incorporate new capabilities and technologies; and • accelerate hiring timelines. Furthermore, we face competition from a number of sources. These sources include: • other employment-related websites, including large national and international competitors, niche career websites targeted at specific industry verticals, and jobs aggregator websites that aggregate job postings from multiple company websites and job boards; • professional networking and social networking websites; • general classified advertising websites, some of which offer a low-cost or free alternative to our offerings; • traditional media companies, including newspapers; and • Internet portals, search engines and general-interest websites such as blogs. In addition to traditional competitors that provide products and services that are very similar to Monster’s core products and services, we face increasing competition from a broad range of competitor types. Jobs aggregator websites have become a significant source of competition, as they permit job seekers to search multiple company websites and job boards. Professional networking websites have had significant success over the past several years in gaining large numbers of members and attracting employer customers with products that compete directly with our products. Low-cost and free classified advertising websites have also gained increased acceptance with employers. Additionally, many niche career websites have been launched targeted at specific industry verticals, and many industry blogs and websites now provide employment advertising opportunities for employers within specific industries. Some of our competitors or potential competitors may have greater financial resources, management, technological development, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors have more diversified businesses or may be owned by entities engaged in other lines of business, allowing them to operate their directly competitive operations at lower margins than our operations. In addition, our ability to maintain our existing clients and attract new clients depends to a large degree on the quality of our services and our reputation among our clients and potential clients. Due to competition, we may experience reduced margins on our products and services, loss of market share or diminished use of our services by job seekers and our customers. If we are not able to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a result of these and other factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We have no significant proprietary technology that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering the online advertising market. Existing or future competitors may develop or offer services and products that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over our services. If we do not keep pace with product and technology advances, there could be a material adverse impact on our competitive position, revenue and prospects for growth. This could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our ongoing review of strategic alternatives may pose additional risks to our business. On March 1, 2012, the Company announced that it had resolved to explore strategic alternatives to maximize value for the Company’s stockholders. This process is ongoing and the Board of Directors has not set a definitive timetable for the completion of its evaluation. Our exploration of strategic alternatives, including any uncertainty created by this process, involves a number of risks, including distraction of management during this process; significant fluctuations in our stock price could occur in response to developments relating to the strategic review process or market speculation regarding any such developments; we may encounter difficulties in hiring, retaining and motivating key personnel during this process or as a result of uncertainties generated by this process or any developments or actions relating to it; we may incur substantial increases in general and administrative expense associated with increased legal fees and the need to retain and compensate third party consultants; and we may experience difficulties in preserving the commercially sensitive confidential information that may need to be disclosed to competitors and other persons during this process or in connection with an assessment of our strategic alternatives. There can be no assurance that this process will result in the pursuit or consummation of any strategic transaction or that there will be a formal cessation of the process. During this process, we do not intend to provide interim updates or announce or otherwise disclose developments (whether or not material) related to the strategic review process. The occurrence of any one or more of the above risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: • the timing and amount of existing clients’ subscription renewals; • enhancements to existing services; • the hiring cycles of employers; • changes in general economic conditions, such as recessions, that could, among other things, affect recruiting efforts generally and online recruiting efforts in particular; • the magnitude and timing of marketing initiatives; • the maintenance and development of our strategic relationships; • our ability to attract and retain customers; • technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the Internet generally or the operation of our products and services specifically; and • enhancements to technology to safeguard against security breaches. We face risks relating to developing technology. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. The emerging character of these products and services and their rapid evolution will require continuous improvement in the performance, features and reliability of our Internet and mobile content, particularly in response to competitive offerings. We may not be successful in responding quickly, cost effectively and sufficiently to these developments. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies or standards (including several different mobile and smart phone operating systems) could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our websites, applications and services. Each manufacturer or distributor of a mobile device or smart phone may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not work or be viewable on these devices as a result. As new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our products and services for use on these alternative devices and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such devices. If we are slow to develop products and technologies that are compatible with such devices, we might fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for our products and services. This could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. New Internet services or enhancements that we have offered or may offer in the future may contain design flaws or other defects that could require expensive modifications or result in a loss of client confidence. Any disruption in Internet access or in the Internet generally could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Slower response times or system failures may also result from straining the capacity of our software, hardware or network infrastructure. To the extent that we do not effectively address any capacity constraints or system failures, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be significantly harmed. Trends that could have a critical impact on our success include: • rapidly changing technology in online recruiting; • evolving industry standards relating to online recruiting; • developments and changes relating to the Internet and mobile devices; • evolving government regulations; • competing products and services that offer increased functionality; • changes in employer and job seeker requirements; and • customer privacy protection concerning transactions conducted over the Internet. 12 Table of Contents We rely heavily on our information systems and if our access to this technology is impaired, or we fail to further develop our technology, our business could be significantly harmed. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information, including our client and candidate databases. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our information systems to evolving industry standards and to improve the performance and reliability of our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development, either internally or through independent consultants, of new proprietary software. Our inability to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively could significantly harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. Concerns relating to our privacy policies and our compliance with applicable data protection laws and regulations could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers, job seekers and other Internet users from using our products and services and subject us to fines. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation, which in turn could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse impact on our business. Moreover, failure or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, requirements or our policies related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could result in a loss of confidence in us by customers, job seekers and other Internet users and could expose us to fines and penalties and could require us to expend significant sums in connection with any failure or perceived failure, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Laws related to data protection continue to evolve. It is possible that certain jurisdictions may enact laws or regulations that impact our ability to offer our products and services and/or result in reduced traffic or contract terminations in those jurisdictions, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Intrusions on our systems could damage our business. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to cyber attacks, computer viruses, worms and other malicious software programs, physical and electronic break-ins, sabotage and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Unauthorized access could jeopardize the security of information stored in our systems relating to our customers, job seekers and other website users, and can lead to “phishing” schemes whereby unauthorized persons pose as employers or Monster representatives and seek to obtain personal information from our customers and job seekers. In addition, malware or viruses could jeopardize the security of information stored or used in a user’s computer. We have experienced these intrusions in the past. We may also experience these intrusions in the future and may be required to expend significant sums and resources to safeguard against or remediate them. Moreover, negative publicity arising from any intrusion is damaging to our reputation and may adversely impact traffic to our sites. Accordingly, any intrusion could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Interruptions, delays or failures in the provision of our services could damage our brand and harm our operating results. Our systems are susceptible to outages and interruptions due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. Our systems’ continuing and uninterrupted performance is critical to our success. Customers, job seekers and other website users may become dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide our services to them, including failures affecting our ability to serve web page requests without significant delay to the viewer. Sustained or repeated system failures would reduce the attractiveness of our solutions to customers, job seekers and other Internet users and result in reduced traffic, contract terminations, fee rebates and make goods, thereby reducing revenue. Moreover, negative publicity arising from these types of disruptions is damaging to our reputation and may adversely impact traffic to our sites. We do not have multiple site redundancy for all of our services and some of our systems are not fully redundant in the event of any such occurrence. In an effort to reduce the likelihood of a geographical or other disaster impacting our business, we have distributed, and intend to continue assessing the need to distribute, our servers among additional data centers. Failure to execute these changes properly or in a timely manner could result in delays or interruptions to our service, which could result in a loss of users and damage to our brand, and harm our operating results. We may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur as a result of any events that cause interruptions in our service. 13 Table of Contents We are vulnerable to intellectual property infringement claims brought against us by others. Successful intellectual property infringement claims against us could result in monetary liability or a material disruption in the conduct of our business. We cannot be certain that our products, content and brand names do not or will not infringe valid patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We expect that infringement claims in our markets will increase in number. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we were found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of a third party, we could be liable to that party for license fees, royalty payments, lost profits or other damages, and the owner of the intellectual property might be able to obtain injunctive relief to prevent us from using the technology or software in the future. If the amounts of these payments were significant or we were prevented from incorporating certain technology or software into our products, our business could be significantly harmed. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. As a result, due to the diversion of management time, the expense required to defend against any claim and the potential liability associated with any lawsuit, any significant litigation could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or maintain our rights to use key technologies of third parties, our business may be harmed. A degree of uncertainty exists concerning the application and enforcement of trademark, trade dress and copyright laws to the Internet, and existing laws may not provide us adequate protection for our original content or the appearance of our Internet sites. In addition, because copyright laws do not prohibit independent development of similar content, copyright laws may not provide us with any competitive advantage. We have obtained patents and applied for other patents with respect to certain of our software systems, methods and related technologies, but our pending applications may not be granted and any patents issued to us may in the future be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted under patents may not provide us with a competitive advantage. We also face risks associated with our trademarks, particularly trademarks covering the Monster brand. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights could involve significant expense and could be difficult or impossible, particularly given the global nature of the Internet and the fact that the laws of certain other countries may afford us little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. Moreover, certain amendments to the United States patent law made by the America Invents Act of 2011, when they become effective, may affect our ability to protect our innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. In addition, we rely on certain technology licensed from third parties, and may be required to license additional technology in the future for use in managing our Internet sites and providing related services to users and advertising customers. Our ability to generate fees from Internet commerce may also depend on data encryption, authentication and other technologies that we may be required to license from third parties. These third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable commercial terms or at all. The inability to enter into and maintain any of these technology licenses could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 14 Table of Contents We have made strategic acquisitions and entered into alliances and joint ventures in the past and may do so in the future. If we are unable to achieve expected benefits from such transactions, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, growth rates and results of operations. As part of our business strategy we have entered into agreements relating to acquisitions, strategic alliances and joint ventures. Such transactions are inherently risky and can be accompanied by a number of risks, including: • the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies into our operations; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • the difficulty of integrating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • the impairment of relationships with customers and partners of the acquired companies or our customers and partners as a result of the integration of acquired operations; • the impairment of relationships with employees of the acquired companies or our employees as a result of integration of new management personnel; • the difficulty of integrating the acquired companies’ accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; • in the case of foreign acquisitions, uncertainty regarding foreign laws and regulations and the difficulty integrating operations and systems as a result of cultural, systems and operational differences; and • the impact of known potential liabilities or unknown liabilities associated with the acquired companies. Our failure to be successful in addressing these risks or other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, incur unanticipated liabilities and significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations generally. Our business depends largely on our ability to attract and retain talented employees, including senior management. We are substantially dependent on the continued services of our executive officers and senior management. The loss of any of these individuals could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is also dependent on our ability to retain, hire, motivate and develop talented, highly skilled personnel. Experienced management and technical, marketing and support personnel in our industry are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. On March 1, 2012, the Company announced that it had resolved to explore strategic alternatives to maximize value for the Company’s stockholders. This strategic review process creates uncertainty which may impact our ability to recruit and retain executive talent. We have recorded a significant goodwill impairment charge and may be required to record additional significant charges to earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $262.7 million for our Careers-China business unit. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. We may be required to record additional significant charges to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. This may adversely impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, our goodwill and intangible assets were $919.9 million, which represented 55% of total consolidated assets. We estimate tax liabilities, the final determination of which is subject to review by domestic and international taxation authorities. We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the United States and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated. We are also subject to review and audit by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements. 15 Table of Contents Effects of anti-takeover provisions could inhibit the acquisition of Monster Worldwide by others. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could, together or separately: • discourage potential acquisition proposals; • delay or prevent a change in control; and/or • limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock. In particular, our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of up to 800,000 shares of Preferred Stock with rights and privileges that might be senior to our Common Stock, without the consent of the holders of the Common Stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide, among other things, for advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. There is volatility in our stock price. The market for our Common Stock has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Factors such as announcements of variations in our quarterly financial results and fluctuations in revenue could cause the market price of our Common Stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted equity compensation. The market price of our Common Stock can be influenced by stockholders’ expectations about the ability of our business to grow and to achieve certain profitability targets. If our financial performance in a particular quarter does not meet the expectations of our stockholders, it may adversely affect their views concerning our growth potential and future financial performance and, therefore, result in a drop in the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, if the securities analysts who regularly follow our Common Stock lower their ratings of our Common Stock, the market price of our Common Stock is likely to drop significantly. We face risks associated with government regulation. The application of existing laws and regulations to our websites relating to issues such as user privacy, security of data, defamation, advertising, taxation, promotions, content regulation, and intellectual property ownership and infringement can be unclear. In addition, we will also be subject to new laws and regulations directly applicable to our activities. Any existing or new legislation applicable to us could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations, and dampen growth in Internet usage. The federal CAN-SPAM Act and state anti-spam laws impose certain requirements on the use of e-mail. The implications of these laws have not been fully tested. Portions of our business rely on e-mail to communicate with consumers on our behalf and for our clients. We may face risk if our use of e-mail is found to violate the federal law or applicable state law. We post our privacy policy and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data on our websites. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policy or other privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings which could potentially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this regard, there are a large number of legislative proposals before the United States Congress, various state legislative bodies as well as various European Union institutions, bodies and agencies regarding privacy issues related to our business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted, and certain proposals, if adopted, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations through a decrease in user registrations and revenues. This could be caused by, among other possible provisions, the required use of disclaimers or other requirements before users can utilize our services. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate its transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws or such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments (or developments stemming from enactment or modification of other laws) may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Legal proceedings may significantly harm our business. From time to time, we may become involved in litigation or other proceedings in the ordinary course of business. It is possible that such litigation or proceedings may significantly harm our future results of operations or financial condition due to expenses we may incur to defend ourselves or the ramifications of an adverse decision. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 