ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Risks associated with an investment in our securities, and with achieving the forward-looking statements contained in this report or in our news releases, websites, public filings, investor and analyst conferences or elsewhere, include, but are not limited to, the risk factors described below. Any of the risk factors described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not succeed in addressing these challenges and risks. Completion of the sale of the Company to Silver Lake Partners and Texas Pacific Group is subject to various conditions and the transaction may not occur even if we obtain stockholder approval. Completion of the merger is subject to various risks, including but not limited to those set forth below. The list is not intended to be an exhaustive list of the risks related to the merger and should be read in conjunction with the other information in our definitive Proxy Statement dated February 21, 2007. · Stockholders holding at least a majority of the shares of our outstanding Common Stock entitled to vote might not vote to adopt the merger agreement; · Our failure or the failure of Silver Lake Partners and Texas Pacific Group to obtain the required regulatory approvals by foreign governments regarding the merger (the required approval from U.S. authorities was received on January 26, 2007 when the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act ended without further action by U.S. competition officials); · The enactment of a law or issuance of an order by a governmental authority prohibiting the merger or other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement; · The pendency of a non-frivolous suit or action, or any governmental proceeding, challenging or seeking to restrain the sale or the ability of Silver Lake Partners and Texas Pacific Group to acquire our Common Stock; · The failure of any other conditions in the merger agreement; and · The failure of the sale of the Company to be completed for any other reason. As a result of these risks, there can be no assurance that the sale of the Company will be completed even if we obtain stockholder approval. Failure to complete the sale of the Company could negatively impact the market price of our Common Stock and operation of our businesses. An investment in our Common Stock is subject to risks related to a failure to complete the sale of the Company to Silver Lake Partners and Texas Pacific Group, including: · the market price of our Common Stock could decline to the extent that the current market price of our stock reflects a market assumption that the sale will be completed; · costs related to the sale, such as legal fees, and, in specified circumstances, termination fees and expense reimbursements, must be paid even if the sale is not completed; and If our merger agreement is terminated and our Board of Directors seeks to sell the Company to another purchaser or to pursue a business combination, then our stockholders cannot be certain that we will be able to find an acquirer willing to pay an equivalent or better price than the price agreed to be paid under the merger agreement. 14 Our revenues are highly dependent on the travel and transportation industries, and particularly on air travel, and a prolonged substantial decrease in travel transaction volumes could adversely affect us. Our revenue increases and decreases with the level of travel and transportation activity. The travel industry is seasonal and our revenue varies significantly from quarter to quarter. Our revenue is also highly subject to declines in or disruptions to travel and transportation that may be caused by factors entirely out of our control. For example, negative perceptions held by travelers about the following factors may adversely affect travel activity: · economic downturns, rising fuel costs and the financial instability of travel suppliers, · political instability, acts of terrorism, hostilities and war, · security issues, including increased airport security, · inclement weather, including hurricanes, · increased occurrence of travel-related accidents, and · travelers’ concerns about exposure to contagious diseases. A prolonged substantial decrease in travel transaction volumes could have an adverse impact on our financial performance, operations, liquidity, or capital resources. Changes to our travel supplier relationships may reduce our revenues. Most of our revenue is derived from airlines, hotel operators, car rental companies, cruise and tour operators and other suppliers in the travel and transportation industry. We depend on a relatively small number of airlines for a significant portion of our revenues. To compete effectively in the travel distribution industry, we must offer broad, dependable access to airline content and features such as schedules, seat availability and fares, including web fares. Airlines and other suppliers may choose to limit our access to their content or the features and benefits they offer travelers in connection with the sale of their services. If our access to supplier-provided content or features and benefits were to be diminished relative to our competitors, our business could be materially adversely affected. Because offerings from major airlines represent a large part of our business, if the Sabre GDS were to lack the ability to facilitate bookings on one or more major airlines, our distribution channels would be relatively less attractive to travel agencies and travel purchasers, which could reduce our transaction fee revenue and materially adversely affect our business. Several major airlines in the United States are experiencing liquidity problems. Some of those airlines are considering consolidation, others have sought bankruptcy protection, and still others may consider bankruptcy relief. The financial instability of airlines or other travel suppliers could have a material negative impact on our business. Travel suppliers are pursuing distribution options that may reduce our access to content, which could reduce our revenues. Some travel suppliers are seeking to decrease their reliance on distribution intermediaries, including global distribution systems such as our Sabre GDS, by promoting other distribution channels. Many airlines, hotels, car rental companies, cruise and tour operators have call centers and have established their own travel distribution websites. From time to time, travel suppliers offer advantages, such as bonus loyalty awards, lower transaction fees or discounted prices, when their products and services are purchased from supplier-related channels. Our Sabre GDS also competes with competitors who may offer less content, functionality and marketing reach at a relatively lower cost to suppliers. In addition, search engine providers are attempting to enter the online travel marketplace by aggregating travel search results across supplier, travel agent and other travel-related websites. If our access to supplier-provided content or features were to be diminished relative to our competitors, our business could be materially adversely affected. See “Business Trends—Trends Affecting Our Airline-Related Businesses” and “Business Trends—Trends Affecting Competition in Travel Commerce.” 15 Customers may reduce transactions through our distribution channels, which could reduce our revenues. Our portfolio of travel distribution businesses includes channels that support the travel agency, business-direct and consumer-direct segments of the global travel distribution marketplace. We believe that we and our customers benefit when we broadly participate in the travel distribution industry, including our direct to traveler services. Broad participation in the industry gives us a competitive advantage, including greater scale of our technology and other synergies. In all of these distribution channels, we face significant competition. · In the travel agency channel, our Sabre GDS historically has competed with other large and well-established global distribution systems. · In the business-direct channel, both the Travelocity Business travel service and Sabre Travel Network GetThere products compete with similar offerings from travel agencies, airlines and other suppliers. · In the consumer-direct channel, Travelocity competes not only against similar offerings from affiliates of other global distribution systems, but also with travel suppliers, online vertical search engines, and a large number of online travel agencies. · Our Sabre Airline Solutions business unit competes against several organizations offering internal reservation system and related technology services to airlines. In some circumstances, our business segments have objectives that lead to conflicts with customers of our other business segments. For example, our Travelocity and Travelocity Business operations compete with travel-agency subscribers of Sabre Travel Network. That competition could cause current or potential travel agency subscribers to elect to use competing GDS providers, websites or other channels of travel distribution, which could reduce our transaction fee revenue and materially adversely affect our business. If our competitors introduce new pricing or offerings that we cannot meet in a timely or cost-effective manner, our customers may elect to use other travel distribution channels and our business may be materially adversely affected. In addition, travelers and other persons may use our websites and other resources to obtain schedules, availability, pricing and other travel information and then elect to purchase travel from a competitor, which would tend to increase our costs without producing revenue. Consolidation in the travel industry and increased competition for customers may increase costs and reduce revenue. Consolidation among participants in the travel industry may increase their negotiating leverage, thereby providing them with competitive advantages over us that may increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Consolidation among travel suppliers, such as major hotel and airline mergers and alliances, may increase competition from these supplier-related distribution channels or give them additional leverage to negotiate lower transaction fees payable to our travel distribution channels, including the Sabre GDS. In order for our distribution channels to obtain access to important airline content offerings, we are evaluating various pricing models for airline suppliers. GDSs, such as our Sabre GDS, compete to attract and retain travel agencies. Some travel suppliers have reduced or eliminated commissions paid to travel agencies (including consumer-direct travel sites like Travelocity). The loss of supplier commissions causes travel agencies to become more dependent on other sources of revenues, such as traveler-paid service fees and GDS-paid incentives. The reduction or elimination of supplier-paid commissions has forced some smaller travel agencies to close or to combine with larger travel agencies. Although the Sabre GDS has a leading share of large travel agencies, competition is particularly intense among global distribution systems for larger travel agency subscribers, including online travel agencies. Consolidation of travel agencies may increase competition for these subscribers and increase the ability of those agencies to negotiate higher GDS paid incentives. In order to compete effectively, we may need to increase incentives, pre-pay incentives, increase spending on marketing or product development, or make significant investments to purchase strategic assets. 16 Consolidation among competitors that offer global distributions systems, such as the announced merger of TravelPort and Worldspan LLP, may provide those companies cost or revenue advantages as compared to the Sabre GDS adversely affecting our ability to successfully maintain and grow our transaction revenues. Travelocity’s revenue growth largely depends on international growth and on expanding net rate (merchant) programs. Travelocity’s revenue growth is driven by expanding global use of the Internet and driving purchases through our online travel websites. The online travel marketplace, especially in Europe, is highly competitive, with independent online travel agencies, suppliers’ proprietary websites, and in some regions the websites of tour wholesalers, competing for customers. Travelocity’s business strategy largely depends on growing its net rate program offerings (commonly referred to in the industry as “merchant model” programs, because the online agency is the merchant of record for credit card processing). Growing the net rate programs is particularly dependent upon our ability to offer adequate hotel rooms. Many hoteliers utilize net rate programs to dispose of excess hotel rooms at discounted rates. If demand increases for suppliers’ products, services and other content offerings, suppliers may limit our right to distribute their offerings or may increase the cost of those offerings. Travelocity’s business strategy also depends on expanding its dynamically packaged offerings, maintaining the breadth of its access to supplier offerings, developing its brand in a cost-effective manner in the United States, Europe, Asia and other growth regions, increasing traffic to its websites (including direct distribution as well as through current and future distribution partners), and expanding the appeal of the Travelocity Business tool to business travelers. We also plan to invest strategically in growth opportunities, and if any of these initiatives is not successful, or requires extensive investment, Travelocity’s growth may be limited and it may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability. We may be unsuccessful in pursuing and integrating business combinations, strategic alliances, or products and technologies, which could result in increased expenditures or cause us to fail to achieve anticipated cost savings or revenue growth. We are currently seeking to integrate recently acquired businesses as described in this report, including our acquisition of lastminute.com. There are risks inherent in these types of transactions, such as: difficulty in assimilating or integrating the operations, technology and personnel of the combined companies; difficulties and costs associated with integrating and evaluating the internal control systems of acquired businesses; disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses and marketplace developments; problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel; expenses associated with the amortization of identifiable intangible assets; additional or unanticipated operating losses, expenses or liabilities of acquired businesses; impairment of relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners; and fluctuations in value and losses that may arise from equity investments. In addition, we plan to continue to examine possible business combinations, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances with other companies in order to maintain and grow revenue and marketplace presence. We may not be able to achieve the following: identify suitable candidates for additional business combinations and strategic investments; obtain financing on acceptable terms for such business combinations and strategic investments; or otherwise consummate such business combinations and strategic investments on acceptable terms. We may be unable to successfully complete potential acquisitions due to multiple factors, such as issues related to regulatory review of the proposed transactions. To consummate such transactions, we may need to raise external funds through the sale of stock and/or debt in the capital markets or through private placements, which might affect our liquidity. 17 Rapid technological changes and new distribution channels or unauthorized use of intellectual property may adversely affect the value of our current or future technologies to us and our customers, which could cause us to increase expenditures to upgrade and protect our technology or develop and protect competing offerings in new distribution channels. New distribution channels, technology and customer behavior in our industry are evolving rapidly. Our ability to compete and our future results depend in part on our continued ability to maintain and to make timely and cost-effective enhancements, upgrades and additions to our technology in response to changes in consumer preferences and increased demand for our products and services. We must also keep pace with rapid advancements in technology, standards and practices, and protect our technology. Maintaining flexibility to respond to technological and marketplace dynamics may require substantial expenditures and lead time. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify and develop new products or services in a timely manner, that offerings, technologies or services developed by others will not render our offerings obsolete or noncompetitive, or that the technologies in which we focus our research and development investments will achieve acceptance in the marketplace and provide a return on our investment. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on us, and our legal remedies may not adequately compensate us for the damages to our business caused by such use. Protecting our intellectual property from unauthorized use could be expensive and time-consuming. Additionally, claims that our products or services may infringe the intellectual property rights of others may require additional expenditures in resolving such claims and/or development of alternate technologies, either or which could be expensive and time-consuming. We will encounter risks and difficulties similar to those frequently experienced in rapidly evolving industries such as the travel distribution industry. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: · attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis, · expand and enhance our service offerings, including the use of new technologies, · operate, support, expand and develop our operations, websites, software, data centers, communications and other systems, · maintain and diversify our sources of revenue, including by entering into agreements that may reflect changes to our Sabre GDS business model, · maintain and develop our existing brands and distribution channels, as well as to make cost-effective expenditures in connection with these initiatives, · manage our relationships with important travel suppliers and other industry participants, and · respond to competitive marketplace conditions. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer. We rely on third parties to provide critical systems and infrastructure. With the exception of our lastminute.com operations, our businesses are largely dependent on the computer data centers and network systems operated for us by Electronic Data Systems Corporation. We also rely on other providers and on the global telecommunications infrastructure. We rely on several communications service suppliers and on the global Internet to provide network access between our computer data center and call centers and end-users of our services. The Travelocity (including the Site59® and lastminute.com websites) business is dependent upon GDSs (the Sabre GDS and others) to process travel bookings. If those providers do not enable us to provide our customers and suppliers with reliable, real-time access to our systems, our business may be materially adversely affected. 18 Our success depends on maintaining the integrity of, and upgrading the quality of, our systems and infrastructure, which may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business interruptions, which could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose customers. In order to be successful, we must provide reliable, real-time access to our systems for our customers and suppliers while also pursuing a low-cost model. Consumers and suppliers will not tolerate a service hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service levels, service outages due to the installation of upgrades, or insufficient capacity. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we will continually need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer an increasing number of customers and travel suppliers enhanced products, services, features and functionality—all while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure and while pursuing reduced costs per transaction. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of business increases, with no assurance that the volume of business will increase. System capacity limits or constraints arising from unexpected increases in our volume of business could cause interruptions, outages or delays in our services, or deterioration in their performance, or could impair our ability to process transactions. We occasionally experience system interruptions that make unavailable some or all of our global distribution system or other data processing services (including the services that Sabre Airline Solutions provides to airlines). System interruptions may prevent us from efficiently providing services to our customers or other third parties, which could result in our losing customers and revenues, or incurring liabilities. Much of the computer and communications hardware upon which we depend is located in a single facility. Our systems might be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, terrorist attacks, hostilities or war or similar events. Computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions affecting the global Internet or our systems might cause service interruptions, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing our services. Problems affecting our systems might be expensive to remedy and could significantly diminish our reputation and brand name and prevent us from providing services. We could be harmed by outages in, or unreliability of, the data center or network systems. The occurrence of any of these events could result in a material adverse effect on our business. 19 Our collection, processing, storage, use and transmission of personal data may be restricted or result in liabilities. In our processing of travel transactions, we collect, process, store, use and transmit large amounts of personally identifiable data about travelers. Our handling of these types of data is increasingly subject to legal restrictions around the world, which may result in conflicting legal requirements in the United States and other jurisdictions. Companies that handle these types of data have also been subject to investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. Our business could be materially adversely affected if legal restrictions on the use of personally identifiable information are expanded or are interpreted in ways that conflict with our business practices. Tax issues have the potential to have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of taxes in many jurisdictions globally. We establish reserves for our potential liability for taxes, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances. Regarding value-added taxes, we have established reserves relating to the collection of refunds which are subject to audit and collection risks in various regions of Europe. The reserves represent our best estimate of our contingent liability for taxes. The interpretation of tax laws and the determination of any potential liability under those laws are complex, and the amount of our liability may exceed our established reserves and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Some state and local taxing authorities impose taxes on the sale, use or occupancy of hotel room accommodations, which are called transient, occupancy, accommodation, sales or hotel room taxes. Hotel operators generally collect and remit these occupancy taxes. Consistent with that practice, when a customer books a hotel room through one of our travel services under our net rate hotel program, we collect from the customer an amount sufficient to pay the hotel its room charge and the occupancy taxes on that charge, as well as an additional amount that represents our fees. We do not collect or remit occupancy taxes on our fees. Some tax authorities claim that occupancy taxes should be collected on some or all of those fees. We believe there are strong arguments that our fees are not subject to occupancy taxes (although tax laws vary among the jurisdictions). We are attempting to resolve this issue with tax authorities in various jurisdictions, but we cannot predict the resolution in any particular jurisdiction. Any actual liability we may have for occupancy taxes, or the size of the reserve we may establish for those taxes, could be affected by a variety of factors, such as the number of jurisdictions that prevail in either assessing additional occupancy taxes or negotiating a settlement with us, the amount of fees potentially subject to tax in each jurisdiction, changes in applicable tax laws, and the timing of any or all of the foregoing. Regulatory developments in Europe could limit our ability to compete by removing key protections needed to safeguard competition where locally strong airlines retain ownership interests in a CRS, and regulatory developments elsewhere could, among other things, inhibit our flexibility to contract with airlines or travel agencies, which could cause our customers to be diverted to our competitors and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. The E.U. Commission has suggested the potential elimination of its rules governing CRS systems. It is unclear when or if the E.U. Commission will make such a formal proposal, or if it does, the final changes that might ultimately be made to those rules. Because large E.U.-based airlines retain substantial ownership interests in one CRS, we could be unfairly and adversely affected if, for example, the E.U. Commission were to eliminate current requirements for airlines that own an interest in a CRS to participate equally in other CRSs. We also could be adversely affected in Europe or elsewhere if restrictions were imposed or continued on CRS advertising and displays, or if additional limitations were placed upon our right to contract with travel agents or airlines. We could also be adversely affected if changes to any of the foregoing CRS rules or to other general laws affecting our businesses, or if decisions made under such rules or laws, were to increase our cost of doing business or otherwise impair our flexibility. 20 Our international operations are subject to other risks, which may impede our ability to grow internationally and adversely affect our overall results of operations. We continually seek to expand the reach of our various businesses into international markets as well as to successfully integrate, operate and manage our existing and future international operations. Our international operations are subject to risks, including those listed below, that may adversely affect our ability to conduct and grow business internationally and could materially adversely affect our business: · changes in foreign currency exchange rates; · difficulty in developing, managing and staffing international operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences; · disruptions to communication and transportation services; · business, political and economic instability in foreign locations, including actual or threatened terrorist activities, and military action; · adverse laws, governmental policies or actions, such as consumer, labor and trade protection measures; taxes, restrictions on foreign investment limits on the repatriation of funds; and lesser protection for intellectual property; and · economic and political conditions, including adverse political or consumer reactions in the United States. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We had no unresolved SEC staff comments through December 31, 2006. 