Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business may suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this report. There may be additional risks faced by our business. All references to “Baxter” in these Risk Factors should be read, as to future contingencies, to include any assignee of Baxter’s obligations under our agreements. The INTERCEPT Blood System may not achieve broad market acceptance. Under our previous agreements, Baxter’s sales and marketing organization had made only modest progress in commercializing the platelet system in European countries where it has been fully approved for sale. Despite obtaining CE mark approval of the platelet system in late 2002, Baxter and we have encountered governmental and blood banking community resistance to commercial adoption, including concerns from some national transfusion services, governmental agencies and healthcare policy groups regarding efficacy, cost and risk-benefit profile. Some potential customers have indicated that further safety information or additional studies would be required before adopting our products. There is some volume loss in the yield of blood products as a result of our pathogen inactivation process. In addition, our platelet system process today is not fully compatible with the common practice of collecting two units of platelets from a single apheresis donor. If the volumetric reduction of blood product leads to increased costs, or our process requires changes in blood center or clinical regimens, customers may not adopt our platelet system product. Our products do not inactivate all known pathogens, and the inability of our systems to inactivate certain pathogens may limit their acceptance. In addition, our products may not demonstrate economic value sufficient to offset their price, imposing a financial burden on the healthcare system that may limit market acceptance. For logistical and financial reasons, the transfusion industry has not always integrated new technologies into their processes, even those with the potential to improve the safety of the blood supply, such as the INTERCEPT Blood System. Our products may require significant changes to our potential customers’ blood component collection methods, space and staffing requirements and require upfront investment in UVA illuminators, disposable kit inventory and staff training. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval for commercial sale, blood centers, physicians, patients and healthcare payors may not believe that the benefits of using the INTERCEPT Blood System justify their additional cost. If customers experience operational or technical problems with the use of INTERCEPT Blood System products, market acceptance may be reduced. For example, if adverse events arise from incomplete inactivation of pathogens, improper processing or user error, or if testing of INTERCEPT Blood System-treated blood samples fails to reliably confirm pathogen inactivation, whether or not directly attributable to a shortcoming of the INTERCEPT Blood System, customers may refrain from purchasing the products. Market acceptance of our products may also be affected by the availability of reimbursement from governments, managed care payors, such as insurance companies, or other third parties. In many cases, due to the structure of the blood products industry, we will have little control over reimbursement discussions, which generally occur between blood centers and national or regional ministries of health and private payors. For example, while the platelet system has been approved in France for use by blood centers in treating platelets, commercial adoption has been delayed pending determination of national reimbursement rates for pathogen inactivated platelets. We may be required to seek explicit reimbursement in European countries for our plasma system, even though other competing pathogen inactivation products for plasma have been approved and are being reimbursed in Europe presently. It is difficult to predict the reimbursement status of newly approved, novel medical device or biopharmaceutical products. In certain foreign markets, governments have issued regulations relating to the pricing and profitability of medical products and medical products companies. There also have been proposals in the United States, at both the Federal and state government level, to implement such controls. 15 Table of Contents The widespread adoption of managed care in the United States has also placed pressure on the pricing of medical products. These pressures can be expected to continue and may limit the prices we can obtain for our products. We may be required to reduce the sales price for our products in order to make them economically attractive to our customers and to governmental and private payors, which would reduce and may eliminate our gross profit on sales. Pricing levels may differ widely from country to country, depending on economic, social and industry practices specific to each country. At our present low unit sales levels of the platelet and plasma systems, our costs to manufacture and sell the systems are in excess of revenue. We may be unable to increase sales to a level sufficient to generate profit contribution. We believe that future product sales in Europe and other regions may be negatively affected because we do not have FDA approval for any of our products, nor are we prioritizing seeking such approval. If the INTERCEPT Blood System products fail to achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. In addition, failure to advance the red blood cell system toward regulatory approval and commercialization may have a negative impact on customers’ willingness to adopt the platelet and plasma systems, which could prevent us from achieving profitability. Deferring pursuit of regulatory approval of the INTERCEPT Blood System in the United States due to strategic priorities favoring Europe may have adverse consequences on market acceptance of the INTERCEPT Blood System globally. The market for the INTERCEPT Blood System is highly concentrated with few customers, including often-dominant regional or national blood collection entities. Even if our products receive regulatory approval and reimbursement is available, failure to properly market, price or sell our products to any of these large customers could significantly diminish potential product revenue in those geographies. The market for our pathogen inactivation systems in the United States is highly concentrated, dominated by a small number of blood collection organizations. In many countries in Western Europe and in Japan, various national blood transfusion services or Red Cross organizations collect, store and distribute virtually all of their respective nation’s blood and blood components supply. In Europe, the largest markets for our products are in England, Germany and France. Decisions on product adoption in England are centralized with the National Blood Service, where general cost containment pressures have delayed consideration of the INTERCEPT Blood System to date. In Germany, decisions on product adoption and subsequent reimbursement are expected to be on a blood center-by-blood center basis, but depend on both local and centralized regulatory approvals. While the platelet system has received in-country regulatory approval in France, adoption has been delayed in the absence of national reimbursement rates for pathogen inactivated platelets. In-country regulatory approval in France for the plasma system was obtained in early 2007. However, adoption may be delayed until the existing national reimbursement rates for pathogen inactivated plasma are extended to the INTERCEPT plasma system. The Japanese Red Cross controls a significant majority of blood transfusions in Japan. If approvals are not obtained to market our products in these countries, or if the products are not adopted in these countries, our potential product revenue will be significantly decreased. Our products, blood products treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System and we are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign authorities. Our products under development, and anticipated future products, are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by local, state and federal regulatory authorities in the United States and by foreign regulatory bodies. These regulations are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: • development; • testing; • manufacturing; • labeling; • storage; • pre-market clearance or approval; 16 Table of Contents • sales and distribution; • use standards and documentation; • post-launch surveillance; • quality; • advertising and promotion; and • reimbursement. The FDA and other agencies in the United States and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the manufacturing and marketing of products such as those we are developing. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is long, expensive and uncertain, and typically takes a number of years, depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the product. We may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure necessary approvals or licenses, or we may not be successful at all. Before the FDA determines whether to approve the INTERCEPT Blood System products, we expect our approval applications to be reviewed by the BPAC. BPAC would then make a recommendation to the FDA for, or against, approval. Even if BPAC were to recommend approval of one or more of our products, the FDA would not necessarily approve those products. If BPAC were to recommend against approval of one or more of our products, it is likely that the FDA would not approve those products. Before entering human clinical trials, product candidates in our immunotherapy programs beyond CRS-100 likely will be subject to review by the RAC of the NIH, which could delay initiation of clinical trials. If our product candidates receive approval for commercial sale, their marketing and manufacturing will be subject to continuing FDA and other regulatory requirements, such as requirements to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice and ISO 13485, a quality management system standard applicable to the products we sell in Europe. We were found to be in compliance with ISO 13485 quality management system requirements in an audit conducted by European Union regulators in late 2006. The failure to comply with these requirements on an ongoing basis could result in delaying or precluding commercialization efforts in certain geographies, including the United States, and could result in enforcement action, which could harm our business. Gaining FDA approval for our platelet and plasma products would require additional investment and time, because the current manufacturing sites we rely upon for producing the platelet and plasma system products for European distribution are not FDA-qualified facilities. Regulatory authorities may also require post-marketing testing, which can involve significant expense. Governments or regulatory authorities may impose new regulations or other changes that could further delay or preclude regulatory approval of our potential products. We cannot predict the impact of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action. Distribution of our products outside the United States also is subject to extensive government regulation. These regulations vary by country, including the requirements for approvals or clearance to market, the time required for regulatory review and the sanctions imposed for violations. In some countries, we may be required to register as a medical device manufacturer, even though we outsource manufacturing to third parties. In addition, countries outside the European Union may require clinical data submissions, registration packages, import licenses or other documentation with which we have no familiarity. We will be required to obtain a CE mark extension from European Union regulators for our platelet system, originally obtained by Baxter in 2002, by May 2007 and every five years thereafter. In addition to European Union-level approval, we must obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals in some individual European countries, including France, Germany and England, to market our products. In addition, our customers in many 17 Table of Contents countries must obtain regulatory approval to sell blood components treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System. The level of additional product testing varies by country, but could take a long time to complete. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in lost product sales and profitability. To support our requests for regulatory approval to market our product candidates, we have conducted and intend to conduct various types of studies including: • toxicology studies to evaluate product safety; • laboratory and animal studies to evaluate product effectiveness; • human clinical trials to evaluate the safety, tolerability and effectiveness of treated blood components or immunotherapies; and • manufacturing and stability studies. We have conducted many toxicology studies to demonstrate the INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems’ safety, and we have conducted and plan to conduct toxicology studies for the INTERCEPT red blood cell system and our vaccine candidates throughout the product development process. At any time, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may require further toxicology or other studies to further demonstrate our products’ safety, which could delay commercialization. In addition, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may alter guidance at any time as to what constitutes acceptable clinical trial endpoints or trial design, which may necessitate our having to redesign our product candidates or proposed clinical trials and cause us to incur substantial additional expense or time in attempting to gain regulatory approval. We believe the FDA and other regulatory authorities are likely to weigh the potential risks of using our pathogen inactivation products against the incremental benefits, which may be less compelling in light of improved safety in the blood supply. With respect to an additional Phase III trial of the platelet system in the United States, we expect the FDA to require us to demonstrate a very low level of potential side effects. Trials of this type may be too large and expensive to be practical. Preclinical testing and clinical trials involving our immunotherapy product candidates are long, expensive and uncertain processes. We have only recently begun Phase I human clinical testing of our Listeria platform technology and we have not yet begun testing of our KBMA platform technology in humans. Preclinical results in animals and in vitro testing we have conducted to date with our two immunotherapy platform technologies may not translate to demonstration of safety and efficacy in human clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advancing stages of clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier preclinical and clinical trials. In addition, regulators and investigators may impose more stringent, time consuming and expensive clinical trial requirements than we might otherwise choose to pursue as a precondition to proceeding with clinical testing. It may take us or our collaborators several years to complete this testing, and failure can occur at any stage of the process. We do not know whether we or our collaborators will begin and conduct planned clinical trials on schedule, if at all. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially impact our clinical trials. We also do not know whether planned clinical trials will need to be revamped or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Criteria for regulatory approval in cancer and infectious disease indications are evolving with competitive advances in the standard of care against which new product candidates are judged, as well as with changing market needs and reimbursement levels. Clinical trial design, including enrollment criteria, endpoints, and anticipated label claims are thus subject to change, even if original objectives are being met. In addition to the reasons stated above, clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a study, delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study agreement terms with prospective clinical sites, delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective clinical site and delays in recruiting subjects to participate in a study. We do not know whether any clinical trials will result in marketable products. Typically, there is a high rate of failure for product candidates in preclinical and 18 Table of Contents clinical trials and product candidates emerging from any successful trials would not reach the market for several years. Regulatory delays can also materially impact our product development costs. If we experience delays in testing or approvals, our product development costs will increase. For example, we may need to repeat clinical trials to address regulatory or clinical questions. We may also need to make additional payments to third-party investigators and organizations to retain their services. If the delays are significant, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to become profitable will be delayed. Regulatory agencies may limit the uses, or indications, for which any of our products are approved. For example, we believe that the INTERCEPT Blood System products will be able to claim the inactivation of particular pathogens only to the extent we have laboratory or animal data to support such claims. After regulatory approval for the initial indications, further clinical trials may be necessary to gain approval for the use of the product for additional indications. In addition to the regulatory requirements applicable to us and to our products, there are regulatory requirements applicable to our prospective customers of INTERCEPT Blood System products, the blood centers that process and distribute blood and blood products. Blood centers and others will likely be required to obtain approved license supplements from the FDA or European regulatory authorities before making available blood products processed with our pathogen inactivation systems to hospitals and transfusing physicians. This requirement or regulators’ delays in approving these supplements may deter some blood centers from using our products. Blood centers that do submit supplements may face disapproval or delays in approval that could provide further delay or deter them from using our products. The regulatory impact on potential customers could slow or limit the potential sales of our products. If our preclinical and clinical data are not considered sufficient by regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval, we will be unable to commercialize our products and generate revenue. Our red blood cell system requires extensive additional testing and development. Except for the INTERCEPT platelet and plasma systems, which have received CE mark approval and regulatory approval in certain countries in Europe, we have no products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale and are being marketed. Our product candidates are in various stages of development, and we face the risks of failure inherent in developing medical devices and biotechnology products based on new technologies. Our product candidates must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy and we must adhere to quality standards regarding manufacturing and customer-facing business processes before the FDA and international regulatory authorities can approve them for commercial use. We must provide the FDA and international regulatory authorities with preclinical, clinical and manufacturing data that demonstrate our products are safe, effective and in compliance with government regulations before the products can be approved for commercial sale. In 2002, the platelet system received CE mark approval in Europe. We will need to complete validation studies and obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals in certain European countries before we can market our products in those countries. We expect that further randomized clinical trials funded by third parties will be conducted in some European countries, such as the Netherlands. We also expect to conduct many smaller scale experience trials with prospective customers in a number of European countries. We expect that decisions to adopt the platelet system may be deferred until completion of the additional trials and experience studies in Europe. In certain countries, including Germany and Switzerland, the system must be approved for purchase or use by a specific governmental or non-governmental entity or entities, such as the Paul Ehrlich Institute in Germany. In France, the platelet system has been approved for use by blood centers in treating platelets; however, we do not expect to sell the platelet system broadly to commercial customers until national reimbursement rates for pathogen inactivated platelets treated with the INTERCEPT platelet system are set. 19 Table of Contents We completed our Phase III clinical trial of the platelet system in the United States in March 2001 and have submitted data from this trial, along with several other modules of our pre-market approval application, to the FDA. Based on discussions with the FDA, we performed an additional blinded analysis of the clinical trial data, under the direction of an independent expert physician panel, to determine if apparent differences between treatment groups in the category of pulmonary adverse events reported in the study were attributable to inconsistent event reporting. The reassessment of primary patient records by the expert physician panel showed no statistically significant differences between groups. This reassessment differed from the earlier analysis of adverse events that was based on clinical trial case report forms, which showed statistically significant differences in specific pulmonary events. We submitted a report of the analysis to the FDA for review. The report included conclusions from the expert physician panel. Based upon further discussions with the FDA following submission of that report, we continue to expect that the FDA will require an additional, significantly larger Phase III clinical trial to evaluate the hemostatic efficacy and safety of the platelet system, using the Company’s final commercial product design, as compared to conventional platelets. We also understand that our reassessment of our previously completed Phase III clinical trial data will not be sufficient to address the apparent differences observed in that trial between the treatment groups in the category of pulmonary adverse events, and that data on such events would need to be gathered in the additional Phase III trial. The dimensions of such a Phase III trial may be prohibitively large due either to prospective cost, logistics or both. The additional Phase III clinical trial would need to be completed and data from the trial submitted to the FDA before we could complete our regulatory submission. The FDA may not find the data from any additional clinical trials to be acceptable for approval. Before we begin an additional clinical trial, we will need to gain concurrence with the FDA on our trial design. We may not be able to reach concurrence on the size, scope or design of the study. We have completed Phase IIIa, Phase IIIb and Phase IIIc clinical trials of the plasma system, in the United States, reports for which were filed with the FDA during 2005. We obtained a CE mark approval in Europe of the plasma system in November 2006. We have not submitted any applications for regulatory approval of the plasma system in the United States or any other regions other than Europe. In some countries, including several in Europe, we may be required to perform additional clinical studies using the commercial configuration of the system in order to obtain regulatory approval. As a result of the termination of Phase III clinical trials of our red blood cell system due to the detection of antibody reactivity to red blood cells treated with the INTERCEPT red blood cell system in two patients, we have been conducting additional research activities on our red blood cell system to determine if the system can be reconfigured to reduce the potential for antibody reactivity to treated red blood cells. Based upon an internal evaluation of the results to date from these additional research activities and after consulting with regulatory authorities, we initiated a new Phase I trial in 2006 in the United States using a modified red blood cell system before potentially progressing to later-stage clinical trials. We are utilizing a manual processing system in the Phase I trial, which system is not in a commercially feasible form. A number of trial design, process and product design issues that could impact efficacy, regulatory approval and market acceptance will need to be resolved prior to the initiation of further clinical trials and while those clinical trials are being conducted, including determining the appropriate design of additional Phase I or subsequent Phase II clinical trials, if deemed necessary, and Phase III clinical trials, and developing a commercially feasible red blood cell system, including disposables, hardware and software for implementing the process in blood collection centers. These development initiatives may be costly and time consuming. Even if the project proceeds on course, we would not expect to initiate a Phase III trial for our red blood cell system prior to late 2008. A delay in completing such activities could result in a delay in the timely progression to later stage trials. If we are unsuccessful in advancing a modified red blood cell system through clinical trials, resolving process and product design issues or in obtaining subsequent regulatory approvals and acceptable reimbursement rates, we may never realize a return on our development expenses incurred to date in the red blood cell system program. Clinical trials in particular are expensive and have a high risk of failure. Any of our product candidates may fail in the testing phase or may not achieve results sufficient to attain market acceptance, which could prevent us from achieving profitability. 20 Table of Contents It may take us several years to complete our clinical testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Enrollment criteria for certain of our clinical trials may be quite narrow. Consequently, we may be unable to recruit suitable patients into the trial on a timely basis, if at all. We cannot rely on interim results of trials to predict their final results, and acceptable results in early trials might not be repeated in later trials. Any trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical study or clinical trial or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial to be repeated, require other studies to be performed or cause a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to a program are successful. We have very limited experience in marketing and sales, or in managing a commercial operation in Europe. We can no longer rely upon Baxter for sales, marketing, distribution and regulatory support of the INTERCEPT Blood System products and have formed a new subsidiary in Europe to assume such responsibilities. We have limited experience in managing regulatory affairs, particularly with foreign authorities. Upon reaching agreements with Baxter in February 2006, we became fully responsible for sales, marketing and distribution support of the INTERCEPT Blood System worldwide, except in those Asian territories covered by our agreements with BioOne for the platelet and plasma systems. As a consequence, we will no longer be able to rely upon Baxter for sales, marketing and distribution support of the INTERCEPT Blood System. Further, the February 2006 agreements required that Baxter provide regulatory support for the INTERCEPT Blood System only through the end of 2006, and as a result, we can no longer rely on such support from Baxter. We have been particularly dependent on Baxter in Europe, where the platelet system and, more recently, the plasma system, have been approved for sale in certain countries. If we fail in our efforts to develop such internal competencies or establish acceptable relationships with third parties on a timely basis, our attempts to commercialize the INTERCEPT Blood System may be irreparably harmed. • We must develop, build and manage marketing, sales, distribution, customer service and back office functions necessary to support commercialization of the INTERCEPT Blood System in Europe. Historically, we have had a small scientific affairs group that has helped support Baxter’s European sales and marketing organization; however, we did not maintain our own independent sales and marketing organization. We may be unable to maintain existing customer relationships established by Baxter as we take on responsibility for sales, marketing and customer service. Beginning in early 2006, we began to recruit a small European organization dedicated primarily to selling and marketing the platelet system and more recently, the plasma system, in Europe. We may be unable to recruit suitable sales, marketing, regulatory, and quality assurance personnel on a timely basis, if at all. We also need to continue developing distribution, customer service, and back office capabilities either internally or by contracting with third parties, which we may be unable to accomplish on a timely or maintain on an affordable basis. In addition to adding sales and marketing capabilities, we have needed to develop appropriate inventory and logistics management, receivables and collections, foreign exchange, risk management, human resources, information and quality systems capabilities. Generally, such capabilities must be built in compliance with European standards and practices, with which we have little experience. We also have had to develop customer service capabilities to insure uninterrupted supply, timely calibration and servicing of UVA illuminators, and appropriate and timely resolution of customer complaints. We may be unable to operate a European organization effectively and efficiently, even after Cerus Europe B.V. is fully staffed. Developing sales, marketing and operational capabilities ourselves will increase our costs and may delay commercialization of our pathogen inactivation systems. • We must develop regulatory capabilities for clinical-stage and Phase IV trials involving the INTERCEPT Blood System globally. Following our February 2006 agreements with Baxter, we have taken on worldwide responsibility for regulatory activities regarding the INTERCEPT Blood System, 21 Table of Contents except in territories covered by our agreement with BioOne for the platelet and plasma systems, provided that Baxter remained as the registrant or applicant under European registrations and applications for a transition period in 2006. We will need to complete the transition from Baxter, where we must gain regulatory approval to switch product labels to our brand. Failure to do so may slow the rate of sales of the platelet system or delay the launch of our plasma system. We need additional resources to support regulatory activities and post-approval trials relating to these products. We may not have adequate internal resources and capabilities to manage Phase IV and post-approval trials and to respond appropriately to possible customer complaints or required regulatory reporting of adverse events arising from the use of the platelet system. We will need to increase our regulatory and trial management resources or contract with independent regulatory consultants, which we may be unable to do on a timely basis. Adding regulatory and trial management resources will result in increased costs and may potentially delay regulatory filings. Delays or inabilities to complete regulatory filings and obtain approvals will also delay or prevent us from being able to recognize sales of our products and attaining profitability. We will continue to rely on Baxter for manufacturing and supplying components of our platelet and plasma systems for a limited period of time. Over a longer period, we will need to identify, select and qualify third party sources of supply for the INTERCEPT Blood System, including the INTERCEPT red blood cell system. • We rely on third parties for manufacturing and supplying components of our platelet and plasma systems. Under the terms of our agreements, Baxter is currently responsible for manufacturing and supplying illuminators and disposable kits associated with the platelet and plasma systems for commercial use through 2008 and certain components of the platelet and plasma systems through 2009. We will also be dependent on Baxter to transfer know-how relevant to the INTERCEPT Blood System; however, certain of Baxter’s materials, manufacturing processes and methods are proprietary to Baxter. We may be unable to establish alternate sources of supply to Baxter without having to redesign certain elements of the platelet and plasma systems. Such redesign may be costly, time consuming and require further regulatory review, which would delay our ability to commercialize the platelet and plasma systems. If Baxter fails to manufacture an adequate supply of components or devices within quality specifications, we may be unable to supply products to our customers. Baxter is not obligated to provide support for development and testing of improvements or changes we may make to the INTERCEPT Blood System. We may be unable to identify, select, and qualify such manufacturers or those third parties able to provide support for development and testing activities on a timely basis or enter into contracts with them on reasonable terms, if at all. Any delay in the availability of devices or components from Baxter could delay further regulatory approvals, market introduction and subsequent sales of the systems. Moreover, the inclusion of components manufactured by others could require us to seek new approvals from regulatory authorities, which could result in delays in product delivery. We may not receive any such required regulatory approvals. Baxter manufactures our platelet and plasma systems in facilities that are not FDA-approved. Our agreements do not require Baxter to validate these manufacturing facilities with the FDA. In order to be sold in the United States, our systems would be required to be manufactured in an FDA-approved facility. FDA validation of a manufacturing facility, whether owned by Baxter or by another party, will be costly and time-consuming. • Baxter has entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Transfusion Therapies business unit and, under that agreement, the buyer will assume Baxter’s manufacturing obligations to Cerus. On October 3, 2006, Baxter announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Transfusion Therapies business, the unit of Baxter that has performed many of the manufacturing and supply chain activities related to our relationship with Baxter, to a new company formed by an investment group led by Texas Pacific Group. Subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions, Baxter has informed us that it expects the transaction to close within the first quarter of 2007. We have been informed by Baxter that the new company will assume Baxter’s obligations to us under the manufacturing agreement. However, the new company may fail to manufacture an adequate supply of 22 Table of Contents components or devices of the INTERCEPT Blood System, which would subject us to the risks described above. Certain components of the INTERCEPT Blood System are currently manufactured or assembled at facilities not within the Transfusion Therapies business unit. Baxter and/or the new company will continue to be obligated to supply illuminators and disposable kits associated with the platelet and plasma systems to us generally through 2008 and for certain components through 2009. Failure to supply an adequate supply of components or devices of the INTERCEPT Blood System, would subject us to the risks described above. In addition, because the components of the INTERCEPT Blood System are manufactured and assembled at multiple facilities owned by both Baxter and the new company leading up to final assembly, Baxter and the new company will remain interdependent with respect to the INTERCEPT Blood System supply chain. Baxter and the new company may fail to coordinate or meet interdependent supply chain obligations, leading to a failure to manufacture an adequate supply of components or devices of the INTERCEPT Blood System, which would also subject us to the risks described above. • We will be required to identify and enter into agreements with third parties to manufacture the INTERCEPT Blood System products and related blood component storage solutions. Baxter’s manufacturing responsibilities for illuminators and disposable kits associated with the platelet and plasma systems in general extend through 2008 and for certain components of the platelet and plasma systems through 2009, after which we will assume manufacturing responsibilities. Except for very limited manufacturing of disposable components, Baxter is no longer obligated to provide manufacturing services related to the red blood cell system. We will need to identify parties to provide those manufacturing services related to our red blood cell system. It may be difficult to enter into these types of agreements on reasonable terms. In particular, it will be time-consuming for other manufacturers to develop the capability to manufacture the INTERCEPT Blood System products and blood component storage solutions economically and to gain regulatory approval to do so for commercial use. We may be unable to identify and contract with manufacturers that can make our products cost-effectively, which would delay our efforts to commercialize our products. • Our potential remedies against Baxter may be inadequate in assuring that Baxter meets its contractual obligations. In the event of a failure by Baxter to perform its obligations to supply components of the INTERCEPT Blood System to us, damages recoverable by us may be insufficient to compensate us for the full loss of business opportunity. Our supply agreement with Baxter contains limitations on incidental and consequential damages that we may recover. Baxter’s potential liability in the event of non-performance may not be sufficient to compel Baxter to continue to act in conformity with our agreements. The platelet system is not compatible with some commercial platelet collection methods and platforms and platelet storage solutions manufactured by others. The equipment and materials used to collect platelets vary by manufacturer and by geographic region. Platelets may be collected from a single donor by apheresis using an automated collection machine. Apheresis devices currently used in the United States and European markets differ, among other characteristics, by in their ability to collect platelets in reduced volumes of plasma. Platelet concentrates may also be prepared from whole blood by pooling together platelets from multiple donors. There are two commonly used methods for preparing whole blood platelets: the buffy coat method, which is used extensively in Europe and Canada, and the pooled random donor method, which is used in the United States and to a more limited extent in Europe. Our system for platelets is designed to work with platelets collected using a proprietary platelet storage solution, called Intersol, manufactured by Baxter. For platelets collected by apheresis, the INTERCEPT platelet system is most compatible with Baxter’s apheresis platelet collection system, because it facilitates the use of Intersol. For platelets prepared from whole blood, our platelet system is most compatible with the buffy coat collection method, again because this method facilitates the use of Intersol as an additive solution to the platelet 23 Table of Contents concentrate. As a result, we have conducted most of our clinical studies using either Baxter’s equipment or buffy coat platelets. More recently, we have begun conducting studies in Europe supporting the use of the platelet system in combination with other collection and preparation platforms. In order to address the entire market in the United States, we would need to develop and test additional configurations of the INTERCEPT platelet system. Our efforts to develop the platelet system to date have focused almost entirely on apheresis platelets collected on Baxter’s automated collection platform. We estimate that the majority of platelets used in the United States are collected by apheresis, though a significant minority is prepared from pooled random donor platelets derived from whole blood collections. We may be required to make our systems compatible with random donor platelets. In order to develop a platelet pathogen inactivation system compatible with random donor platelets, we would need to perform additional product development and testing, including additional clinical trials. These development activities would increase our costs significantly, and may not be successful. Baxter has committed to us to make Intersol collection and pooling products and conversion kits available to customers. However, Baxter may not make such products or its apheresis collection system available for sale in certain countries and has elected to discontinue sales efforts for its apheresis collection system in Japan. Other manufacturers supplying blood component collection platforms to the market may resist our efforts to make the INTERCEPT Blood System compatible with their platforms. Making our platelet system readily compatible with the Haemonetics apheresis collection system will require certain changes in the Haemonetics device, and there can be no assurance that Haemonetics will undertake this effort on a timely basis or be commercially successful. Gambro, Inc., or Gambro, another major supplier of automated platelet collection systems, is conducting clinical trials of its own system for pathogen inactivation of platelets. For competitive reasons, Gambro may have little or no incentive to make its apheresis collection system compatible with our platelet system. Attaining compatibility with collection platforms manufactured by others would require adaptations to either our platelet system or to the collection platforms, which may be difficult to engineer, expensive to implement and test, require additional clinical trials, cause delays in regulatory approval and/or be commercially unattractive to pursue. These development activities will increase our costs significantly, and may not be successful. Market acceptance of the platelet system may be delayed until the system receives regulatory approval for use on such other equipment. Because the INTERCEPT Blood System products have not been manufactured on more than a limited commercial scale, we face manufacturing uncertainties that could limit their commercialization. If our third-party manufacturers fail to produce our products or compounds satisfactorily and in sufficient quantities, we may incur delays, shortfalls and additional expenses, which may in turn result in permanent harm to our customer relations. The INTERCEPT Blood System products, including many of the components, have been manufactured on a commercial scale on only a limited basis. Baxter relies on third parties to manufacture and assemble some of the platelet and plasma system components, many of which are customized and have not been manufactured on a commercial scale. Baxter has produced some pathogen inactivation systems in modest commercial quantities, but may not be able to manufacture and assemble other systems or in larger quantities, or do so economically. Because of low sales volumes and other reasons, Baxter’s costs to manufacture commercial components for the platelet system have been greater than we previously anticipated and may continue to rise. This may reduce our potential gross profit margin from platelet and plasma system sales. We may be unable to contract with third parties to supply the INTERCEPT Blood System in adequate quantities or to manufacture the system or its components at acceptable cost. We are in the initial stages of commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System in Europe and may not accurately forecast demand for the INTERCEPT Blood System. We may be unable to contract with third parties to supply adequate numbers of platelet and plasma systems and components to meet demand and, as a result, supply to our customers may be 24 Table of Contents interrupted. If Baxter or third-party manufacturers fail to produce our products or Intersol products satisfactorily, at acceptable costs and in sufficient quantities, we may incur delays, shortfalls and additional expenses, which may in turn result in permanent harm to our customer relations. In the United States, studies related to the platelet system disposable and compound manufacturing need to be completed and included in FDA submissions before the FDA would consider the applications for approval. Baxter and we purchase certain key components of the INTERCEPT Blood System from a limited number of suppliers. Contracts for the long-term supply of certain components have not yet been signed. It would be expensive and time-consuming to establish additional or replacement suppliers for these components. Some components of the INTERCEPT Blood System, including components of the UVA illuminator device, are no longer manufactured, which will require Baxter or us to identify and qualify replacement components and may require that we conduct additional studies, which could include clinical trials, to demonstrate equivalency or validate any required design or component changes. If Baxter or we are unable to identify and supply replacement components, we may be unable to supply products to our customers. If we were required to redesign the products, our development costs would increase, and our programs and commercialization efforts could be delayed significantly. We intend to use third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of the chemical compounds to be used in our products. These compounds have not yet been produced in quantities sufficient to support commercialization for all regions in which we may market our products. We have an agreement with a manufacturer to produce commercial quantities of amotosalen, a proprietary compound used in our platelet and plasma systems. We currently do not have any third-party manufacturing agreements in place for commercial production of compounds used in our red blood cell system. Any new or additional commercial manufacturer will need to develop new methods and processes to manufacture these compounds on a commercial scale and demonstrate to us, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that its commercial scale manufacturing processes comply with government regulations and that its compounds are equivalent to originally licensed compounds in order for us to maintain commercial licensure of our products. It may be difficult or impossible to economically manufacture our products on a commercial scale. We have relied on Baxter for transition services. We will need to perform these services ourselves or identify one or more alternative third- party providers. Under the terms of our February 2006 agreement, Baxter was required to provide certain transition services relating to European activities, at our expense. These services included specified regulatory and clinical support activities, installation, maintenance and calibration services, and order entry, billing and collections from customers, device and systems development, monitoring and responding to customer complaints, and clinical education and training provided through December 31, 2006, and manufacturing technical information and advice, which Baxter is obligated to provide through December 31, 2008. We have also been reliant on Baxter to manage operational aspects of our presence in Europe, including compliance with local, national and EU regulations relating to labor law, taxes, logistics, credit and collections and administration. We need to continue to develop internal competencies in sales, marketing, distribution, regulatory support, operations and administration or arrange for third parties to provide certain of these necessary services. We may be unable to assume these functions ourselves or identify alternative third-party providers on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, if at all. Any delay in these activities could delay further regulatory approvals, market introduction and subsequent sales of the systems. We have used prototype components in our preclinical studies and clinical trials of the INTERCEPT red blood cell system and have not completed the components’ commercial design. The system disposables and instruments of our red blood cell system that we used in our preclinical studies and clinical trials in the United States historically and those we are now using in our new Phase I red blood cell trial are prototypes of systems to be used in the final products. As a result, we expect regulatory authorities will 25 Table of Contents require us to perform additional preclinical and clinical studies using the commercial versions of the systems to demonstrate the acceptability of the commercial configuration and the equivalence of the prototypes and the commercial products’ design, which may increase our expenses and delay the commercialization of our products. If we fail to develop commercial versions of the INTERCEPT red blood cell system on schedule, our potential revenue would be delayed or diminished and our competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do. In addition, the design and engineering effort required to complete the final commercial product is substantial and time-consuming. As with any complex development effort, we expect to encounter design, engineering and manufacturing issues. Such issues have previously arisen, sometimes unexpectedly, and solutions to these issues have not always been readily forthcoming. Additional unforeseen design, engineering and manufacturing issues may arise in the future, which could increase the development cost and delay commercialization of our products. We rely on BioOne for commercialization of our platelet and plasma systems in many Asian countries. Baxter and we have licensed to BioOne, rights to commercialization of the platelet and plasma systems in Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea, Vietnam, Thailand, and Singapore. BioOne is solely responsible for obtaining regulatory approvals, marketing and selling the platelet and plasma systems in those countries. We understand that Baxter does not intend to maintain its CE mark registration for the platelet system after it expires in mid-2007. In addition, we received CE mark approval for the plasma system independently from Baxter, and Baxter is not intending to apply for a CE mark for the plasma system. However, BioOne is dependent on Baxter for the manufacture and supply of the platelet and plasma systems well beyond the time when Baxter intends to let its CE mark registration for the platelet system lapse. BioOne is also dependent on Baxter for providing certain regulatory support and the timely transition of regulatory files and dossiers. BioOne may be unable to qualify the platelet and plasma systems for sale in certain countries in its territory in the absence of CE marks being held by Baxter, even if CE marks are held by us. BioOne has made only limited progress to date in commercializing the platelet and plasma systems in Asian territories. Because we only have a minority investment interest in BioOne, we lack the ability to significantly influence BioOne, and are dependent on BioOne’s performance to realize milestone and royalty revenue from commercialization of our platelet and plasma systems in those countries. In Japan, regulatory authorities may require our platelet and plasma systems to be widely adopted commercially in Europe or approved by the FDA before the platelet and plasma systems are considered for approval in Japan, which would delay or prevent BioOne from achieving significant product sales. We understand that BioOne will need to raise additional capital in the first half of 2007 in order to fund its operations. There is no assurance that BioOne will be able to attract additional required capital to successfully commercialize those products licensed from Baxter and us. BioOne may not be successful in commercializing the platelet and plasma systems in its Asian territories, in which case the value of BioOne’s equity likely would decline and may give rise to an impairment in the carrying value of our equity interest in BioOne. Our vaccine programs are in an early stage of development. Our vaccine programs are in an early stage of development and there is a high risk of failure. We will be required to perform extensive preclinical and clinical testing before any product candidate can be submitted for regulatory approval prior to commercialization. Clinical testing is very expensive, takes many years, and the outcome is uncertain. Failure to demonstrate the safety or efficacy of a product candidate in preclinical studies or clinical trials would delay or prevent regulatory approval of that product candidate. Our potential vaccine products must meet rigorous testing standards in order to advance to clinical testing. Other than CRS-100 being tested in our current Phase I clinical trial, no product candidates employing either our Listeria or our KBMA platform technologies have been tested in humans, and preclinical data in animal studies and from in vitro experiments may not be predictive of clinical safety and efficacy once product candidates are tested in humans. Our immunotherapy product candidates are unlikely to be used as single agents for the treatment of cancer or infectious diseases, but rather in combination with other drugs and treatment regimens. Testing our vaccines in 26 Table of Contents combination with other drugs and treatment regimens in clinical trials will introduce additional clinical, timeline and regulatory risks and complexities, including added expense, delay in conducting clinical trials and uncertain regulatory requirements. Naturally-occurring Listeria is a bacterium that is a human pathogen that can cause serious illness. Our immunotherapy product candidates for cancer indications use proprietary, modified strains of Listeria that are designed to have a substantially reduced ability to cause illness in humans. However, before our vaccine candidates can be accepted for clinical testing, we must successfully complete a number of preclinical safety studies. We may not be able to identify a dose range in which our product candidates are therapeutically effective and yet maintain adequate safety margins. Investigators have encountered and may continue to encounter difficulties in enrolling suitable patients in our trials, which have contributed to delays and increased costs in completing the CRS-100 Phase I trial. Clearance of a Phase I clinical trial using CRS-100 does not imply concurrence by FDA to our conducting later stage studies with CRS-100 and does not imply clearance for clinical trials of our other Listeria vaccine candidates expressing antigens, such as CRS-207. Because CRS-207 and our other preclinical product candidates using Listeria rely on the same base strain of Listeria used in CRS-100, any adverse findings in clinical trials of CRS-100 would likely adversely affect our ability to develop and test these other product candidates in human clinical trials. Our Phase I clinical trial for CRS-100 involves testing in a patient population with advanced disease. We may be unable to test CRS-100 and our other product candidates in subsequent trials in patient populations that we believe may be better suited clinically or commercially to our vaccines. Because our vaccine candidates use novel platforms, the FDA or foreign regulators may require studies that we have not anticipated. In addition, we have contracted with third-party manufacturers to produce our vaccines for research, preclinical and clinical testing. We have manufactured CRS-100 for toxicology studies and Phase I clinical trials, but have not engaged in scale-up of the manufacturing process or the development of a commercial formulation. We also rely on third parties to conduct aspects of preclinical and clinical development on our behalf, including contract manufacturing and research services. These third parties may encounter delays, over which we have significantly less control than research and development activities performed in-house, or experience unexpected results. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the preclinical research and development process that could delay or prevent clinical testing, regulatory approval and commercialization of our potential products. Our ability to successfully develop cancer and infectious disease products is dependent in part on being able to attract and retain partners and collaborators, as well as governmental funding sources. The development and commercialization of product candidates employing our Listeria and KBMA platform technologies will be expensive, lengthy and uncertain. To date, we have relied not only upon internal scientific, development and financial resources, but also upon third parties. We have licensed our Listeria platform to MedImmune for use in developing a product candidate potentially applicable to cancers expressing EphA2, a proprietary antigen owned by MedImmune. We are collaborating with investigators at Johns Hopkins University on other cancer and infectious disease programs. We also rely on advice and insights from our scientific advisory board, a group of independent clinicians, professors and investigators, regarding our research and development activities. These relationships provide us with external perspectives and independent validation that may be critical to our future success. Loss of these relationships or failure to attract others may result in additional expense, delays in development and regulatory approval and failure to commercialize products. We have received significant funding from United States government agencies for research and development in both cancer and infectious disease, as well as funding from MedImmune under our license agreement relating to development of MEDI-543 (EphA2); however, development funding from MedImmune to Cerus ceased at the completion of contracted work we had performed through early 2006 and MedImmune is pursuing advanced preclinical work on MEDI-543 on its own. Due to budgetary constraints, funding from the Federal government, particularly funding from the Department of Defense and National Institutes of Health, is expected to be reduced from prior years and is subject to political and economic forces beyond our control. Additionally, we no longer 27 Table of Contents are deemed to be a small business for purposes of being eligible for certain grants administered by the National Institutes of Health and regulated by Small Business Administration. Academic and third-party funding we have been awarded to date for early-stage preclinical development of our therapeutic vaccine candidates for hepatitis C and HIV may be inadequate to allow us to demonstrate proof-of-concept of our KBMA Listeria approach as potential standalone or combination therapies for these indications. Federal funding in support of our programs to develop prophylactic vaccines against anthrax and tularemia is not expected to lead to substantial commercial opportunities beyond potential biodefense applications, and we cannot be certain that the research conducted into those two infectious diseases will readily translate into applications with greater commercial potential. We may be unable to attract additional external funding to allow us to continue development of these product candidates. Loss of funding from government sources and third parties would require us to reduce the scope of our research and development efforts in immunotherapeutics, narrowing the number of programs to those we could support through internal resources. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our product candidates, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Conversely, if competitors encounter difficulties or failures in human clinical trials, we may face additional clinical and regulatory challenges. We expect our products to encounter significant competition. The INTERCEPT Blood System products may compete with other approaches to blood safety currently in use, as well as with future products that may be developed by others. Our success will depend in part on our ability to respond quickly to medical and technological changes brought about by the development and introduction of new products. Product development is risky and uncertain, and we cannot assure you that we will develop our products successfully. Competitors’ products or technologies may make our products obsolete or non-competitive before we are able to generate any significant revenue. In addition, competitors or potential competitors may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. They may also have greater experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials and other regulatory approval procedures. Several companies are developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for products that will directly compete with or reduce the market for our pathogen inactivation systems. A number of companies are specifically focusing on alternative strategies for pathogen inactivation in platelets and plasma. In Europe, several companies, including Grifols, Octapharma AG and Maco Pharma International GmbH, are developing or have developed and are selling commercial pathogen inactivation systems to treat fresh frozen plasma. Navigant Biotechnologies, a wholly owned subsidiary of Gambro Group, is developing a pathogen inactivation system for blood products. New methods of testing blood for specific pathogens have been approved by the FDA and in Europe, as have tests for bacteria in platelets. Continued delays in commercialization of the platelet system in France and Germany may impact our ability to compete with bacterial testing for platelets. Tests have recently been approved to detect West Nile Virus in blood products. Other groups are developing rapid, point-of-care bacterial tests, synthetic blood product substitutes and products to stimulate the growth of platelets. Development and commercialization of any of these or other related technologies could impair the potential market for our products. There are many companies pursuing programs for the treatment of cancer and treatment and prevention of infectious disease. Some are large pharmaceutical companies, such as Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline, Sanofi-Aventis, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Genentech and Gilead, which have greater experience and resources in product development, preclinical testing, human clinical trials, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals and in manufacturing and marketing new therapies. We are also competing with other biotechnology companies, such as Cell Genesys, Inc., Coley Pharmaceutical Group, and Dendreon Corporation, that have cancer vaccine programs that are in more advanced stages of development than ours. In addition, other companies are pursuing early-stage research and development of Listeria-based immunotherapies. If any of these companies’ products 28 Table of Contents are shown to be more efficacious than ours, our Listeria-based products may fail to gain regulatory approval or commercial acceptance. If these companies’ products fail in human clinical trials, we may be required to overcome more significant regulatory barriers prior to gaining approval, face more challenging impediments to market acceptance and may be unable to raise capital to fund development of our Listeria or KBMA programs. We may be liable and we may need to withdraw our products from the market if our products harm people. We may be liable if an accident occurs in our controlled use of hazardous materials. We are exposed to potential liability risks inherent in the testing and marketing of medical devices and pharmaceutical products. We may be liable if any of our products cause injury, illness or death. Although we will have completed rigorous preclinical and clinical safety testing prior to marketing our products, there may be harmful effects caused by our products that we are unable to identify in preclinical or clinical testing. In particular, unforeseen, rare reactions or adverse side effects related to long-term use of our products may not be observed until the products are in widespread commercial use. Because of the limited duration and number of patients receiving blood components treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System products in clinical trials, it is possible that harmful effects of our products not observed in clinical and preclinical testing could be discovered in clinical trials or after a marketing approval has been received. Later discovery of problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in additional restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. We are subject to risks and costs of product recall, which include not only potential out-of-pocket costs, but also potential interruption to our supply chain. In such an event, our customer relations would be harmed and we would incur unforeseen losses. We maintain product liability insurance, but do not know whether the insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including certain hazardous chemicals, radioactive materials and infectious pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis viruses. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials are adequate and comply with regulatory requirements, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for any damages that result. Virtually all of our research and development activities and the significant majority of our general and administrative activities are performed in or managed from at a single site that may be subject to lengthy business interruption in the event of a severe earthquake. Virtually all of our research and development activities and the significant majority of our general and administrative activities are performed in or managed from our facilities in Concord, California, which are within an active earthquake fault zone. Should a severe earthquake occur, we might be unable to occupy our facilities or conduct research and development and general and administrative activities in support of our business and products until such time as our facilities could be repaired and made operational. Our property and casualty and business interruption insurance in general does not cover losses caused by earthquakes. While we have taken certain measures to protect our scientific, technological and commercial assets, a lengthy or costly disruption due to an earthquake would have a material adverse effect on us. We have only a limited operating history, and we expect to continue to generate losses. We may never achieve a profitable level of operations. To date, we have engaged primarily in research and development. Our development and selling, general, and administrative expenses have resulted in substantial losses each year since our inception with the exception of the year ended December 31, 2005. In 2005, we realized a $22.1 million nonrecurring gain associated with the restructuring of a loan payable in 2005 and, as a result of this gain, we recorded net income of $13.1 million in 2005. At December 31, 2006, we had an 29 Table of Contents accumulated deficit of approximately $311.4 million. Except for the platelet and plasma systems, which have received European Union CE mark approval, all of our products are in the research and development stage, and we have not received significant revenue from product sales. We have received substantially all of our revenue from our agreements with our development partners and from federal research grants and cooperative agreements. We will be required to conduct significant research, development, clinical testing and regulatory compliance activities for each of these products. We expect our losses to continue at least until more of our product candidates are commercialized and achieve significant market acceptance. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our future operations, we will not be able to develop product candidates in our pipeline. Our product development programs are capital-intensive. We may need to reduce or stop further investment in specific research and development or sales and marketing activities if we are unable to obtain additional capital or if any of our development programs are determined by us to be economically unfeasible. A product or program may be determined to be uneconomic if the commercial opportunity is insufficient to justify the investment required to develop and market the product or for other reasons. We expect that our spending in support of research, development and commercialization of the platelet and plasma systems will be in excess of contribution from product sales, milestone payments and development funding for such programs from third parties over the next year. We re-entered clinical trials for the red blood cell system in mid-2006 with only partial funding from governmental sources. In addition, as a consequence of the February 2006 restructuring agreement with Baxter, we have taken on increasing operational and financial responsibility for the commercialization of the platelet and plasma systems, particularly in Europe. As a result of these factors, further product development and commercialization of the INTERCEPT Blood System may take longer and be more expensive than we previously anticipated. We expect to continue to spend substantial funds for our operations for the foreseeable future. Our cash, liquidity and capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the development progress and costs of our programs, payments from collaborators, funding from agencies of the United States government, costs related to creating, maintaining and defending our intellectual property position, regulatory approval and successful commercialization of our product candidates, competitive developments and regulatory factors. Through December 31, 2006, we had been awarded $38.7 million in funding under cooperative agreements with the Department of Defense, and have received $35.1 million in proceeds from these awards. We also have received funding under grants from the National Institutes of Health. Further funding awarded under federal grants and cooperative agreements is subject to the authorization of funds and approval of our research plans by various organizations within the federal government, including the U.S. Congress. The general economic environment, coupled with tight Federal budgets, has led to a general decline in the amount of government funding. Additionally, we no longer are deemed to be a small business for purposes of being eligible for certain grants administered by the National Institutes of Health and regulated by Small Business Administration. If we are unable to obtain Federal grant and cooperative agreement funding for future activities at levels similar to past funding, we may need to reduce our operating expenses, which would delay progress in some of our development programs. In addition, we are required separately to administer and account for our work under government contracts and grants on an on-going basis as a condition to accepting government funding which places administrative, accounting and reporting burdens on us beyond those we have assumed as a public company. If we fail to comply with applicable governmental administrative, accounting and reporting regulations with respect to these grants and cooperative agreements, funds currently available to us may be reduced or lost. These conditions may also result in increased selling, general, and administrative spending beyond what we have experienced. 30 Table of Contents We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or operate our business without infringing intellectual property rights of others. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection on our products and successfully defending our products against third-party challenges. Our technology will be protected from unauthorized use only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents or effectively maintained as trade secrets. As a result, our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain patents; • protect trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that our patents or patents that we license from others will be enforceable and afford protection against competitors. Our patents or patent applications, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our patent rights may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Others may independently develop technologies similar to ours or independently duplicate our technologies. For example, a United States patent issued to a third-party covers methods to remove psoralen compounds from blood products. We have reviewed the patent and believe our work predates the invention disclosed in that patent. We are continuing to review that patent and will make a determination as to whether any action is necessary. In addition, others hold patents, and have pending patent applications, concerning Listeria-based immunotherapies. Those patents and new patents that may be issued upon the pending applications, if valid, would restrict us from bringing to market particular embodiments of Listeria-based immunotherapy products. While we believe that such restrictions do not preclude us from developing and commercializing our Listeria-based immunotherapy products, they may preclude us from pursuing certain product approaches that might otherwise be promising. Our patents expire at various dates between 2009 and 2018. Recent patent applications, principally related to our immunotherapy programs, will, if granted, result in patents with later expiration dates. Due to the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of our potential products, our patents may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization. This would reduce or eliminate any advantage of the patents. We cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. We may need to license the right to use third-party patents and intellectual property to continue development and commercialization of our products. We may not be able to acquire such required licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ patents, or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. We may face litigation to defend against claims of infringement, assert claims of infringement, enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how or determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. Patent litigation is costly. In addition, we may require interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions relating to our patent applications. Litigation or interference proceedings could be expensive and time consuming, and we could be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights. We may rely, in certain circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees and certain contractors. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach or our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others, disputes also may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. 31 Table of Contents As our international operations grow, we may be subject to adverse fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and foreign currencies. Consequently, we may suffer losses. Our international operations are subject to risks typical of an international business, including, among other factors: differing political, economic, and regulatory climates, different tax structures, and foreign exchange volatility. We do not currently enter into any hedging contracts to normalize the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations. As a result, our future results could be materially affected by changes in these or other factors. Product sales of our blood safety products are typically made in Europe and generally are invoiced to customers in Euros. In addition, we incur operating expenses in foreign currencies. Our exposure to foreign exchange rate volatility is a direct result of our product sales, cash collection and expenses to support of our international operations. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations are recorded as a component of Interest (Expense) and other, net on our consolidated statements of operations. Significant fluctuations in the volatility of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may materially affect our results of operations. Currently we do not have any near-term plans to enter into a formal hedging program to mitigate the effects of foreign currency volatility. The market price of our stock may be highly volatile. The market prices for our securities and those of other emerging medical device and biotechnology companies have been, and may continue to be, volatile. For example, during the period from January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2006, the sale price of our common stock as quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market fluctuated within a range from a low of $1.60 to a high of $14.76. Announcements may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Such announcements may include: • biological or medical discoveries; • technological innovations or new commercial services by us or our competitors; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; • regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries; • status of development partnerships; • dilution from future issuances of common stock; • public concern as to the safety of new technologies; • general market conditions; • comments made by analysts, including changes in analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; and • quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and financial results. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and medical device companies, and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If there is an adverse outcome in the securities class action litigation that has been filed against us, our business may be harmed. We and certain of our current and former officers and directors are named as defendants in a purported securities class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The lawsuit is brought on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our securities, and seeks unspecified damages. In addition, our directors and certain of our current and former officers have been named as defendants in a derivative lawsuit in the Superior Court for the County of Contra Costa, California, which names Cerus as a nominal defendant. The plaintiff in this action is a Cerus stockholder who seeks to bring derivative claims on 32 Table of Contents behalf of Cerus against the defendants. The lawsuit alleges breaches of fiduciary duty and related claims. On August 31, 2006, we announced that we had reached agreements to settle the outstanding class action and derivative lawsuits. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreements, the plaintiffs agreed to provide the defendants with a release of all claims related to such class action and derivative lawsuits without any admission of wrongdoing or liability by any party. Under these settlement agreements, the total cash settlements will be funded entirely by insurance carriers under our directors' and officers' liability insurance policy and will have no financial impact on Cerus. On February 16, 2007, the federal district court granted final approval to the class action settlement. On February 21, 2007, the state court granted final approval to the derivative settlement. Both settlements will become effective upon the expiration of the time in which to appeal the judgments of dismissal that the federal and state courts have entered or soon will enter. Under terms of the settlements, the Company believes that these matters will not have a material effect on its results of operations or financial position; however, it cannot predict when, if ever, the settlements will become effective. If the settlements do not become effective, we may have to incur substantial expenses in connection with these lawsuits and in the event of an adverse outcome, our business could be harmed. We may fail to comply fully with elements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of this Act could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accountants attesting to and reporting on these assessments. These requirements extend to the operations of our subsidiary in Europe. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude in future periods that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we cannot favorably assess, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment of, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 