ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investigations and litigations relating to stock option matters are pending, the scope and outcome of which could have a negative effect on the price of our securities, liquidity and business. On June 12, 2006, we announced that a committee of independent directors of the Board of Directors (the "Special Committee") was conducting an independent investigation to review the Company's historical stock option grant practices and related accounting. The Special Committee subsequently determined that the exercise price for a substantial number of stock option grants during the periods between 1997 through March 31, 2003 differed from the fair market value of the underlying shares on the measurement date. Accordingly, the Company announced that its previously filed financial statements should no longer be relied upon; and the Company filed an amended annual report on Form 10-K/A with restated financial statements. The United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York ("USAO") and the SEC have informed the Company that each is conducting an investigation into the Company's past stock option grants. In connection therewith, the Company has received a grand jury subpoena from the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and requests for the voluntary production of documents from the SEC. We are fully cooperating with the USAO and the SEC. Our former General Counsel pleaded guilty to two felony counts in connection with our historic stock option grant practices and our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the USAO relating to those historical grants. Shareholder derivative actions against a number of current and former officers and directors of the Company relating to our stock option grant practices have been filed in both the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York County, in which the Company is named as a nominal defendant. In addition, a putative class action on behalf of participants in the Company's 401(k) Plan alleging violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA") against certain current and former officers and a putative securities shareholder class action against the Company and certain former officers are pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Each of these lawsuits is described more fully in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." These investigations and litigations have imposed, and are likely to continue to impose, significant costs on us, both monetarily and in requiring attention by our management team. While we are unable to estimate the costs that we may incur in the future, these are likely to include: •professional fees in connection with the conduct of the investigations and the defense of the litigation; •potential damages, fines, penalties or settlement costs; and •payments to, or on behalf of, our current and former employees, officers and directors for the costs and expenses incurred by them in connection with the investigation of the USAO and/or the SEC or any of the lawsuits noted above pursuant to our indemnification obligations (in certain circumstances these indemnification payments are recoverable if it is determined that the officer or director at issue acted improperly, but there is no assurance that we will be able to recover such payments). It is not clear the extent to which we will be able to recover these expenditures from our insurance carriers. Furthermore, while we believe that the Special Committee has effectively completed its comprehensive investigation, it is possible that additional issues may be raised as a result of the ongoing legal proceedings. Adverse developments in any of the pending legal proceedings arising out of our historical stock option granting practices or any other matter raised could generate negative publicity for us and have an adverse impact on our business and our stock price, including increased stock volatility, and could also harm our ability to raise additional capital or engage in transactions in the future. 7 We rely on the value of our brands, particularly Monster, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing. Our success depends on our brands and their value. Our business would be harmed if we were unable to adequately protect our brand names, particularly Monster. We believe that maintaining and expanding the Monster brand is an important aspect of our efforts to attract and expand our user and client base. We also believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the growing number of Internet sites and the relatively low barriers to entry. We have spent considerable money and resources to date on the establishment and maintenance of the Monster brand. We may spend increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, advertising, marketing and other brand-building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of the Monster brand. Despite this, we may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of the Monster brand and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of the Monster brand in a cost-effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed significantly. We are also susceptible to others imitating our products, particularly Monster, and infringing on our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, upon which we are dependent. While we believe we have strong trademark protection in the Monster brand worldwide in the careers and recruitment business, that protection does not extend fully to other businesses. Other companies and organizations use the "Monster" name, and more may do so in the future. This use could adversely affect our brand recognition and reputation if employers or job seekers confuse us with these other organizations. In addition, the laws of foreign countries do not necessarily protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Imitation of our products, particularly Monster, or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise reduce our revenues. Our operations have been and will be affected by future global economic fluctuations. The general level of economic activity in the regions and industries in which we operate significantly affects demand for our services. When economic activity slows, many companies hire fewer employees. Therefore, our operating results, business and financial condition could be significantly harmed by an economic downturn in the future, especially in regions or industries where our operations are heavily concentrated. Further, we may face increased pricing pressures during such periods. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: •the timing and amount of existing clients' subscription renewals; •entering new markets; •enhancements to existing services; •the hiring cycles of employers; •changes in general economic conditions, such as recessions, that could affect recruiting efforts generally and online recruiting efforts in particular; •the magnitude and timing of marketing initiatives; •the maintenance and development of our strategic relationships; •our ability to manage our anticipated growth and expansion; 8 •our ability to attract and retain customers; •technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the Internet generally or the operation of our products and services specifically; and •the timing and integration of our acquisitions. We estimate tax liabilities, the final determination of which is subject to review by domestic and international taxation authorities. We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the United States and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated. We are also subject to review and audit by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements. We face risks relating to developing technology, including the Internet. The market for Internet products and services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. The emerging character of these products and services and their rapid evolution will require our continuous improvement in the performance, features and reliability of our Internet content, particularly in response to competitive offerings. We may not be successful in responding quickly, cost effectively and sufficiently to these developments. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet technologies or standards could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our websites and services. This could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The online recruiting market continues to evolve. The adoption of online recruiting and job seeking services, particularly among those companies that have historically relied upon traditional recruiting methods, requires the acceptance of a new way of conducting business, exchanging information, advertising and applying for jobs. Many of our potential customers, particularly smaller companies, have not utilized the Internet as a recruiting tool, and not all segments of the job-seeking population use the Internet to look for jobs. Companies may not continue to allocate portions of their budgets to Internet-based recruiting and job seekers may not use online job seeking methods. As a result, we may not be able to effectively compete with traditional recruiting and job seeking methods. If Internet-based recruiting does not remain widely accepted or if we are not able to anticipate changes in the online recruiting market, our business, financial condition and operating results could be significantly harmed. New Internet services or enhancements that we have offered or may offer in the future may contain design flaws or other defects that could require expensive modifications or result in a loss of client confidence. Any disruption in Internet access or in the Internet generally could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Slower response times or system failures may also result from straining the capacity of our software, hardware or network infrastructure. To the extent that we do not effectively address any capacity constraints or system failures, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be significantly harmed. Trends that could have a critical impact on our success include: •rapidly changing technology in online recruiting; •evolving industry standards relating to online recruiting; •developments and changes relating to the Internet; 9 •evolving government regulations; •competing products and services that offer increased functionality; •changes in employer and job seeker requirements; and •customer privacy protection concerning transactions conducted over the Internet. We rely heavily on our information systems and if our access to this technology is impaired, or we fail to further develop our technology, our business could be harmed. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information, including our client and candidate databases. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our information systems to evolving industry standards and to improve the performance and reliability of our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development, either internally or through independent consultants, of new proprietary software. Our inability to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. Concerns relating to our privacy policies and our compliance with applicable data protection laws and regulations could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers, job seekers and other Internet users from using our products and services. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation, which in turn could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Moreover, failure or perceived failure to comply with our policies or applicable requirements related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could result in a loss of confidence in us by customers, job seekers and other Internet users, which could adversely affect our business. Laws related to data protection continue to evolve. It is possible that certain jurisdictions may enact laws or regulations that impact our ability to offer our products and services and/or result in reduced traffic or contract terminations in those jurisdictions, which could harm our business. Interruptions, delays or failures in the provision of our services, including any failure to adequately protect personal information of our customers, job seekers and other website users, could damage our brand and harm our operating results. Our systems are susceptible to outages and interruptions due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks, terrorist attacks and similar events. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, worms, physical and electronic break-ins, sabotage and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Unauthorized access, "phishing" schemes and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in our systems relating to our customers, job seekers and other website users. We have experienced these intrusions in the past, and may experience them in the future. 10 Our systems' continuing and uninterrupted performance is critical to our success. Customers, job seekers and other website users may become dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide our services to them, including failures affecting our ability to serve web page requests without significant delay to the viewer. Sustained or repeated system failures would reduce the attractiveness of our solutions to customers, job seekers and other Internet users and result in reduced traffic, contract terminations, fee rebates and make goods, thereby reducing revenue. Moreover, negative publicity arising from these types of disruptions is damaging to our reputation and may adversely impact traffic to our sites. We do not have multiple site capacity for all of our services and some of our systems are not fully redundant in the event of any such occurrence. In an effort to reduce the likelihood of a geographical or other disaster impacting our business, we have begun distributing, and intend to continue distributing, our servers among additional data centers. Failure to execute these changes properly or in a timely manner could result in delays or interruptions to our service, which could result in a loss of users and damage to our brand, and harm our operating results. We may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur as a result of any events that cause interruptions in our service. Our markets are highly competitive. The markets for our services are highly competitive. They are characterized by pressures to: •reduce prices; •incorporate new capabilities and technologies; and •accelerate job completion schedules. Furthermore, we face competition from a number of sources. These sources include: •other employment-related websites, including large national and international competitors as well as niche career websites targeted at specific industry verticals; •traditional media companies, including newspapers; •Internet portals, search engines and social networking websites; and •specialized career and education related online content providers, including blogs and user generated content. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have long operating histories, and some may have greater financial resources, management, technological development, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors have more diversified businesses or may be owned by entities engaged in other lines of business allowing them to operate their directly competitive operations at lower margins than our operations. In addition, our ability to maintain our existing clients and attract new clients depends to a large degree on the quality of our services and our reputation among our clients and potential clients. Due to competition, we may experience reduced margins on our products and services, loss of market share or less use of our services by job seekers and our customers. If we are not able to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a result of these and other factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We have no significant proprietary technology that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering the online advertising market. Existing or future competitors may develop or offer services and products which provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over our services. If we do not keep pace with product and technology advances, there could be a material adverse effect on our competitive position, revenue and prospects for growth. This could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 11 We are vulnerable to intellectual property infringement claims brought against us by others. Successful intellectual property infringement claims against us could result in monetary liability or a material disruption in the conduct of our business. We cannot be certain that our products, content and brand names do not or will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We expect that infringement claims in our markets will increase in number. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we were found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of a third party, we could be liable to that party for license fees, royalty payments, profits or damages, and the owner of the intellectual property might be able to prevent us from using the technology or software in the future. If the amounts of these payments were significant or we were prevented from incorporating certain technology or software into our products, our business could be significantly harmed. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. As a result, due to the diversion of management time, the expense required to defend against any claim and the potential liability associated with any lawsuit, any significant litigation could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or maintain our rights to use key technologies of third parties, our business may be harmed. A degree of uncertainty exists concerning the application and enforcement of copyright and trade dress laws to the Internet, and existing laws may not provide us adequate protection for our original content or the appearance of our Internet sites. In addition, because copyright laws do not prohibit independent development of similar content, copyright laws may not provide us with any competitive advantage. We have obtained patents and applied for other patents with respect to certain of our software systems, methods and related technologies, but our pending applications may not be granted and any patents issued to us may in the future be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted thereunder may not provide us with a competitive advantage. We also face risks associated with our trademarks, particularly trademarks covering the Monster brand. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights could involve significant expense and could be difficult or impossible, particularly given the global nature of the Internet and the fact that the laws of certain other countries may afford us little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. In addition, we rely on certain technology licensed from third parties, and may be required to license additional technology in the future for use in managing our Internet sites and providing related services to users and advertising customers. Our ability to generate fees from Internet commerce may also depend on data encryption and authentication technologies that we may be required to license from third parties. These third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable commercial terms or at all. The inability to enter into and maintain any of these technology licenses could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We have made strategic acquisitions and entered into alliances and joint ventures in the past and intend to do so in the future. If we are unable to find suitable acquisitions or partners or to achieve expected benefits from such acquisitions or partnerships, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, growth rates and results of operations. As part of our ongoing business strategy to expand product offerings and acquire new technology, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding, and enter into agreements relating to, possible acquisitions, strategic alliances and joint ventures. If we are unable to identify future acquisition opportunities or reach agreement with such third parties, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, growth rates and results of operations. 12 Even if we are able to complete acquisitions or enter into alliances and joint ventures that we believe will be successful, such transactions, especially those involving companies like Affinity Labs and China HR.com Holdings Ltd. ("ChinaHR"), are inherently risky. Our acquisitions can be accompanied by a number of risks, including: •the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of our acquired companies into our operations; •the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; •the difficulty of integrating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; •the impairment of relationships with customers and partners of the acquired companies or our customers and partners as a result of the integration of acquired operations; •the impairment of relationships with employees of the acquired companies or our employees as a result of integration of new management personnel; •the difficulty of integrating the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; •in the case of foreign acquisitions, uncertainty regarding foreign laws and regulations and difficulty integrating operations and systems as a result of cultural, systems and operational differences; and •the impact of known potential liabilities or unknown liabilities associated with the acquired companies. Our failure to be successful in addressing these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. We have had and may face future difficulties managing growth. Our business has grown rapidly, both internally and through acquisitions. This expansion has resulted in substantial growth in the number of our employees, and put a significant strain on our management and operations. If our business continues to grow rapidly, we expect it to result in increased responsibility for management personnel, and incremental strain on our operations, and financial and management systems. Our success under such conditions will depend to a significant extent on the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to operate effectively both independently and as a group. If we are not able to manage future growth, our business, financial condition and operating results may be harmed. If our divested businesses fail to satisfy obligations relating to their operations, we could face third-party claims seeking to hold us liable for those obligations. In 2003, we completed the spin-off of Hudson Highland Group, Inc. to our stockholders. In June 2005, we sold our Directional Marketing business, and during 2006 we disposed of our global Advertising & Communications business in five separate transactions. We remain contingently liable to third parties for some obligations of these divested businesses, such as for real estate leases assumed by the divested businesses, if the divested businesses fail to meet their obligations. Our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if we receive third-party claims relating to liabilities of our divested businesses. We face risks relating to our foreign operations. We have a presence in approximately 40 countries around the world. We earned 38%, 29% and 24% of our total revenue outside of the United States in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, 13 respectively. Such amounts are generally collected in the local currency. In addition, we generally pay operating expenses in the corresponding local currency. Therefore, we are at risk for exchange rate fluctuations between such local currencies and the United States dollar. We cannot predict the direction or magnitude of future currency fluctuations. A weakening of the currencies in which we generate sales relative to the currencies in which our costs are denominated may lower our results of operations. We are also subject to taxation in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, transactions between our foreign subsidiaries and us may be subject to United States and foreign withholding taxes. Applicable tax rates in foreign jurisdictions differ from those of the United States, and change periodically. The extent, if any, to which we will receive credit in the United States for taxes we pay in foreign jurisdictions, will depend upon the application of limitations set forth in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as well as the provisions of any tax treaties that may exist between the United States and such foreign jurisdictions. Our current or future international operations might not succeed or might fail to meet our expectations for a number of reasons including: •general political uncertainty; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •competition from local recruiting services; •operational issues such as longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; •seasonal reductions in business activity; •language and cultural differences; •taxation issues; •complex legal and regulatory requirements that may be uncertain and may change; and •issues relating to uncertainties of laws and enforcement relating to the regulation and protection of intellectual property. If we are forced to discontinue any of our international operations, we could incur material costs to close down such operations. Also, we could be exposed to fines and penalties under U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, we cannot be sure that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. Any such violations could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our business and our operating results. Our future growth depends on our ability to expand operations in international markets. We may have limited experience or we may need to rely on business partners in these markets, and our future growth will be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in our international expansion efforts. We currently have a presence in approximately 40 countries around the world. Our future growth will depend significantly on our ability to expand Monster-branded product offerings in additional international markets. As we expand into new international markets, we will have only limited experience in marketing and operating our products and services in such markets. In other instances, including our strategic investment in ChinaHR, we have had to rely, and may have to continue to rely, on the efforts and abilities of foreign business partners in such markets. Certain international markets may be slower than domestic markets in adopting the online career and commerce medium and as a 14 result, our operations in international markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investment. Our business depends largely on our ability to attract and retain talented employees, including senior management. We are substantially dependent on the continued services of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Information Officer. The loss of any of these individuals could harm our business. Our business is also dependent on our ability to retain, hire and motivate talented, highly skilled personnel. Experienced management and technical, marketing and support personnel in our industry are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. We could be influenced by one stockholder. On September 25, 2007, Andrew J. McKelvey, the Company's former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, entered into a prepaid variable forward contract with an unaffiliated third party buyer, pursuant to which he pledged 4,762,000 shares of Class B Common Stock to secure his obligations under the contract. Each share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to ten (10) votes. The Company's charter provides that the shares of Class B Common Stock immediately convert into Common Stock (entitled to only one vote per share) if the holder sells or assigns his beneficial ownership in the Class B Common Stock. While the Company was in the process of determining whether, if as a result of the pledge, the shares of Class B Common Stock held by Mr. McKelvey were converted into shares of Common Stock, Mr. McKelvey, a Special Litigation Committee of the Board composed of independent and disinterested directors and the Company entered into a Memorandum of Understanding providing for the settlement of claims asserted on behalf of the Company against Mr. McKelvey in connection with the derivative actions. The settlement provides, among other things, that Mr. McKelvey will convert the 4,762,000 shares of Class B Common Stock owned by him for a like number of shares of ordinary Common Stock. While the settlement is subject to the execution of a definitive settlement agreement and court approval of that agreement, pending a court determination of whether or not to approve the settlement, Mr. McKelvey has ceded his ability to cast more than one vote per share by agreeing that any additional vote to which he is entitled will be cast in proportion to the other votes cast at any shareholders meeting. If the Court does not approve the settlement agreement or if the proxy is terminated pursuant to the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding and it is not otherwise determined that Mr. McKelvey's shares of Class B Common Stock have converted as a result of the prepaid variable forward contract, then Mr. McKelvey will have the right to vote approximately 31.01% of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock. As a result of such voting rights, Mr. McKelvey could have significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors and certain mergers or other business combinations. In addition, pending conversion of the Class B Common Stock, the settlement does not affect Mr. McKelvey's right to vote the shares of Class B Common Stock on any proposal to amend the Company's Certificate of Incorporation in a manner that would affect the shares of Class B Common Stock. Any such amendment would require the approval of the holders of a majority of outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock. Accordingly, Mr. McKelvey (as the holder of all of the shares of Class B Stock) would determine the outcome of any such proposal. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be 15 recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. This may adversely impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2007, our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets were $661.9 million. Effects of anti-takeover provisions could inhibit the acquisition of Monster Worldwide by others. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could, together or separately: •discourage potential acquisition proposals; •delay or prevent a change in control; and •limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock. In particular, our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of up to 800,000 shares of Preferred Stock with rights and privileges that might be senior to our Common Stock, without the consent of the holders of the Common Stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide, among other things, for advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. There is volatility in our stock price. The market for our Common Stock has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Factors such as announcements of variations in our quarterly financial results and fluctuations in revenue could cause the market price of our Common Stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, some of whom have been granted equity compensation. The market price of our Common Stock can be influenced by stockholders' expectations about the ability of our business to grow and to achieve certain profitability targets. If our financial performance in a particular quarter does not meet the expectations of our stockholders, it may adversely affect their views concerning our growth potential and future financial performance. In addition, if the securities analysts who regularly follow our Common Stock lower their ratings of our Common Stock, the market price of our Common Stock is likely to drop significantly. The market price of our Common Stock may react negatively to further updates and announcements regarding the government investigations and litigation proceedings related to our historical stock option grant practices. We face risks associated with government regulation. The application of existing laws and regulations to our web sites, particularly Monster, relating to issues such as user privacy, security of data, defamation, advertising, taxation, promotions, content regulation, and intellectual property ownership and infringement can be unclear. In addition, we will also be subject to new laws and regulations directly applicable to our activities. Any existing or new legislation applicable to us could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations, and dampen growth in Internet usage. 16 The federal CAN-SPAM Act and state anti-spam laws impose certain requirements on the use of e-mail. The implications of these laws have not been fully tested. Portions of our business rely on e-mail to communicate with consumers on our behalf and for our clients. We may face risk if our use of e-mail is found to violate the federal law or applicable state law. We post our privacy policy and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data on our websites. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policy or other privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings which could potentially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this regard, there are a large number of legislative proposals before the United States Congress and various state legislative bodies regarding privacy issues related to our business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted, and certain proposals, if adopted, could significantly harm our business through a decrease in user registrations and revenues. This could be caused by, among other possible provisions, the required use of disclaimers or other requirements before users can utilize our services. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate its transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws or such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments (or developments stemming from enactment or modification of other laws) may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Other legal proceedings may significantly harm our business. From time to time, we may become involved in other litigation or other proceedings in the ordinary course of business. It is possible that such litigation or proceedings may significantly harm our future results of operations or financial condition due to expenses we may incur to defend ourselves or the ramifications of an adverse decision. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 