D. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities should be considered highly speculative and involves a high degree of financial risk due to the nature of our activities and the current status of our operations. Readers and prospective investors should carefully consider the risks summarized below and all other information contained in this Annual Report before making an investment decision relating to our shares. Some statements in this Annual Report (including some of the following risk factors) are forward-looking statements. Please refer to the discussion of forward-looking statements in the introduction to this Annual Report. Any one or more of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the value of any investment in our Company and the business, financial position or operating results of our Company and should be taken into account in assessing our activities. The risks noted below do not necessarily comprise all those faced by us. Risks Relating to the Company Title to Properties To the knowledge of the Company, none of its property interests have been surveyed to establish boundaries. There can be no assurance that any governmental authority in China could not significantly alter the conditions of or revoke the applicable exploration or mining authorizations held by the Company or that the Company's interest in such properties will not be challenged or impugned by third parties or governmental authorities. In addition, there can be no assurance that the properties or other assets in which the Company has an interest are not subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers, pledges, mortgages or claims and title may be affected by undetected defects as it is difficult to verify that no agreements, transfers, claims, mortgages, pledges or other encumbrances exist given the state of the legal and administrative systems in China. China Political and Economic Considerations The business operations of the Company will be located in, and the revenues of the Company derived from activities in, China. Likewise, the Company's operations in China are currently conducted through and with the assistance of Minco Mining (China) Co., Ltd. ("Minco China"), a Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise ("WFOE"). Accordingly, the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company could be significantly and adversely affected by economic, political and social changes in China. The economy of China has traditionally been a planned economy, subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the state, which set national economic development goals. Since 1978, China has been moving the economy from a planned economy to a more open, market-oriented system. The economic development of China is following a model of market economy under socialism. Under this direction, it is expected that China will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and that business development in China will follow market forces and the rules of market economics. However, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. In addition, there is no guarantee that a major turnover of senior political decision makers will not occur, or that the existing economic policy of China will not be changed. A change in policies by China could adversely affect the Company's interests in China by changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof, confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supplies, or the expropriation of private enterprises. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of companies engaged in mineral resource exploration and development, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on the Company and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. Companies with a foreign ownership component operating in China may be required to work within a framework which is different to that imposed on domestic Chinese companies. The Chinese government is opening up opportunities for foreign investment in mining projects and this process is expected to continue. However, if the Chinese government should reverse this trend and impose greater restrictions on foreign companies, the Company's business and future earnings could be negatively affected. 6 Chinese Legal System and Enforcement Most of the material agreements to which the Company or its affiliates are party or will be party in the future with respect to mining assets in China are expected to be governed by Chinese law and some may be with Chinese governmental entities. The Chinese legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protection available to the Company and its shareholders. The outcome of any litigation may be more uncertain than usual because: (i) the experience of Chinese judiciary in the industry in which we operate is relatively limited, and (ii) the interpretation of Chinese laws may be subject to policy changes reflecting domestic political changes. The laws that do exist are relatively recent and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the available legal protections. Even where adequate laws exist in China, it may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such laws or to obtain enforcement of judgments by a court of another jurisdiction, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company. Many tax rules are not published in China, and those that are published can be ambiguous and contradictory, leaving a considerable amount of discretion to local tax authorities. China currently offers tax and other preferential incentives to encourage foreign investment. However, the tax regime of China is undergoing review and there is no assurance that such tax and other incentives will continue to be available. There is also no guarantee that the pursuit of economic reforms by the Government will be consistent or effective and as a result, changes in the rate or method of taxation, reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions and changes in state policies affecting the mining industry may have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Government Regulation of Mineral Resources and Ownership Ownership of land in China remains with the State, and the State, at the national, regional and local levels, is extensively involved in the regulation of exploration and mining activities. Transfers and issuances of exploration and mining rights are also subject to governmental approval. Failure or delays in obtaining necessary approvals could have a materially adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Nearly all mining projects in China require government approval. There can be no certainty that any such approvals will be granted (directly or indirectly) to the Company in a timely manner, or at all. Exploration and Development is a Speculative Business Resource exploration and development is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but also from finding mineral deposits that, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by the Company may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond the control of the Company and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, the availability of mining equipment, and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection, the combination of which factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return of investment capital. The long-term profitability of the Company's operations will in part be directly related to the costs and success of its exploration programs, which may be affected by a number of factors. Substantial expenditures are required to establish reserves through drilling and to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. If our exploration costs are greater than anticipated, we will have fewer funds for our exploration activities and for our general and administrative expenses, which in turn will adversely affect our financial condition and ability to pursue our exploration programs. Although substantial benefits may be derived from the discovery of a major mineralized deposit, no assurance can be given that minerals will be discovered in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations, that commercially viable mineral deposits exist on our properties or that funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. Future Financing The Company currently has limited financial resources and there is no assurance that additional funding will be available to it for further exploration and development of its projects. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be favourable. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of the Company's projects with the possible loss of such properties. Joint Venture Agreement There is no guarantee that Minco Gold and its other partners will be able to fund the Changkeng project owned by Guangzhou Mingzhong Mining Co. Ltd (“Mingzhong”). Mingzhong, the entity that holds the Changkeng Permit (as defined below), is owned in part by certain state-owned entities which require government approvals before they are able to increase their investment in Mingzhong. It is unclear when these approvals will be granted, if at all. Industry Specific Risks The exploration, development, and production of minerals are capital-intensive businesses, subject to the normal risks and capital expenditure requirements associated with mining operations, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations that we undertake will be subject to hazardous risks incidental to exploration and test mining, including, but not limited to work stoppages, equipment failure and possible environmental damage. Liabilities resulting from such events may result in us being forced to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business prospects. 7 Limited Experience with Development-Stage Mining Operations The Company has limited experience in placing resource properties into production, and its ability to do so will be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or entering into agreements with other major resource companies that can provide such expertise. There can be no assurance that the Company will have available to it the necessary expertise if the Company places its resource properties into production. Factors Beyond Company's Control Discovery, location and development of mineral deposits depend upon a number of factors, not the least of which is the technical skill of the exploration personnel involved. The exploration and development of mineral properties and the marketability of any minerals contained in such properties will also be affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Company. These factors include government regulation, high levels of volatility in market prices, availability of markets, availability of adequate transportation and refining facilities and the imposition of new, or amendments to existing, taxes and royalties. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted. Potential Conflicts of Interest Certain members of the Company's board of directors (the “Board”) and officers of the Company also serve as officers or directors of other companies involved in natural resource exploration and development. Consequently, there exists the possibility that those directors and officers may be in a position of conflict. In particular, Ken Z. Cai is a director of and serves in management in each of the Company, Minco Silver and Minco Base Metals Corporation ("Minco Base Metals"). In addition, Samson Siu serves as Interim Chief Financial Officer and Jennifer Trevitt serves as Corporate Secretary for each of the Company, Minco Silver and Minco Base Metals. Any decision made by such directors and officers will be made in accordance with their duties and obligations to deal fairly and in good faith with the Company and such other companies. In addition, such directors and officers will declare, and refrain from voting on, any matter in which such directors or officers may have a conflict of interest. Nevertheless, there remains the possibility that the best interests of the Company will not be served because its directors and officers have other commitments. Matters between the Company and Minco Silver which put any of the directors or officers of the Company in a position of conflict are approved by the audit committee of the Board which comprises of solely independent directors. In addition to the potential conflicts described above, some of the directors and officers of the Company are also directors or officers of other reporting and non-reporting issuers who are engaged in other industry sectors. Accordingly, conflicts of interest may arise which could influence the decisions or actions of directors or officers acting on behalf of the Company. Scope of Business In China, companies are granted a business license which specifies the scope of activities that they are permitted to undertake. Although Minco China has taken steps to ensure that all of its business activities are within the scope of its business license, there is no assurance that the relevant Chinese authorities will agree with such assessment. If Minco China is determined to have exceeded the scope of its business license, it could be subject to penalties or other sanctions. Uninsured Risks The Company's mining activities are subject to the risks normally inherent in mineral exploration, including, but not limited to, environmental hazards, industrial accidents, flooding, periodic or seasonal interruptions due to climate and hazardous weather conditions, and unusual or unexpected formations. Such risks could result in damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delay in mining and possible legal liability. The Company may become subject to liability for pollution and other hazards against which it cannot insure or against which it may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or other reasons. The payment for such liabilities would reduce the funds available for exploration and mining activities and may have a material impact on the Company's financial position. Currency Exchange Rates The Company maintains its accounts in Canadian dollar and RMB denominations. Given that most of Minco Gold's expenditures are currently, and are anticipated to be, incurred in RMB, Minco Gold is subject to foreign currency fluctuations which may affect its financial position and operating results. The Company does not currently have a formal hedging program to mitigate foreign currency exchange risks. Repatriation of Capital Located in China The Company may face delays repatriating funds held in China if at any time the Company needs additional resources to enable it to undertake projects elsewhere in the world. There are certain restrictions on the repatriation of funds held in China, as more particularly described below. 8 Under Chinese law, repatriation of funds from China falls under several categories: (1) profit and capital repatriation; (2) liquidation; and (3) overseas loan repayment. The major requirements for each of the repatriation methods are as follows: 1. Profit repatriation – A WFOE may repatriate its after-tax profits out of China with few restrictions. Minco China is classified as a WFOE. Profit repatriation can only be undertaken once a year. (a) Capital Repatriation – Under Chinese law, capital repatriation can only be made under the following circumstances: Share/Equity Interest Sale – In the event that a foreign investor, as an assignor, intends to sell its equity interest in the WFOE to any other foreign or domestic entities/individuals, as an assignee, the approval from the original approving authority, such as the local Department of Commerce ("DOC") is required. Such governmental approval for an equity sale is not difficult to obtain in normal circumstances and it would normally take one to two months after all of the required documents have been submitted, subject to local practice. Once the governmental approval is obtained, the assignee is obliged to apply to the local State Administration for Foreign Exchange ("SAFE"), for the approval of mailing the payment of the transfer price to the assignor, which can normally be done within 20 business days after all of the required documents have been submitted. (b) Capital Decrease – Generally, a WFOE must not decrease its registered capital during its operating term. However, if its registered capital needs to be decreased due to the change of the total investment amount or operation scale or for other reasons, such decrease could be done after approval from the original approval authority has been obtained. The procedures for capital decrease are as follows: (i) The WFOE would apply to the local DOC for a preliminary approval of a capital decrease; (ii) After receiving the preliminary reply, the WFOE would notify all of its creditors in writing for such capital decrease and the WFOE would publically disclose such capital decrease in provincial newspapers at least three times; (iii) The creditors may require the WFOE to pay off all debts or provide corresponding guarantees to pay any outstanding debts; (iv) After the WFOE has made at least three public notices in provincial newspapers, it would apply to the local DOC for formal approval of the capital decrease; (v) Once the DOC has approved the decrease of the registered capital, the WFOE would conduct the registration change at the local Administration for Industry and Commerce ("AIC"); and (vi) Upon completion of the above procedures, if the then contributed capital of the WFOE exceeds the registered capital after the decrease; the WFOE would apply for the capital repatriation approval of the decreased capital to its investor(s) at the local SAFE. Once approval is received, the bank can remit the exceeded capital. The above process takes approximately six months to complete. 2. Liquidation – The investor may also voluntarily liquidate the WFOE in accordance with relevant Chinese law and the articles of association of the WFOE. The procedures for the liquidation of a foreign investment are as follows: (a) A resolution to liquidate the WFOE is adopted; (b) The WFOE applies to the local DOC for approval of the liquidation; (c) The WFOE sets up a liquidation committee to conduct the liquidation; (d) Notices to creditors and public announcements about the liquidation must be made; (e) The liquidation committee would handle the sale of the assets of the WFOE and the distribution of the liquidation proceeds and submit a distribution report to the local DOC; (f) The deregistration of the WFOE must be conducted with the local AIC and local tax, customs, foreign exchange and other authorities; and (g) Upon completion of the above procedures, the investor would apply to the local SAFE for repatriation of the liquidated proceeds. Once approval is received, the bank can remit the liquidated proceeds. The above process takes approximately six months to complete. 9 3. Overseas Loan Repayment - Under Chinese law, a WFOE may borrow overseas loans from its investors or other overseas companies or financial institutions, provided that the overseas loan amount shall not exceed the balance between the total investment amount and the registered capital of the WFOE. The procedures for registration and repayment of such overseas loans are as follows: (a) The WFOE would register the overseas loan with the local SAFE and obtain loan registration certificates issued by the local SAFE; (b) After registration, the WFOE would open a special foreign exchange cash account with domestic banks to receive the overseas loan; (c) When the WFOE repays the overseas loan, it would apply to the local SAFE for the repayment approval; and (d) Upon the issuance of the repayment approval of the local SAFE, the WFOE would submit the overseas loan registration certificate and the repayment approval issued by the local SAFE to the banks and the banks would conduct payment operations through the WFOE's special foreign exchange cash account for the overseas loan or the special foreign exchange cash account for the overseas loan repayment. Competition The precious metal minerals exploration industry and mining business are intensely competitive. The Company competes with numerous other companies and individuals in the search for and the acquisition of attractive precious metal mining properties. Many of these competitors have substantially greater technical and financial resources than the Company. Competition could adversely affect the Company's ability to acquire suitable properties or prospects in the future. Uncertainty of Estimates Resource and reserve estimates of minerals are inherently imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from limited drilling, which may prove unreliable. Although estimated recoveries are based upon test results, actual recovery may vary with different rock types or formations in a way which could adversely affect operations. Reliance on Management and Directors The success of the Company is currently largely dependent on the performance of its officers. The loss of the services of these persons could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, and financial position. There is no assurance that the Company can maintain the services of its officers or other qualified personnel required to operate its business. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its prospects. The Company has not purchased any "key-man" insurance with respect to any of its directors or officers as of the date hereof. Fluctuating Mineral Prices Factors beyond the control of the Company may affect the marketability of metals discovered, if any. Metal prices have fluctuated widely, particularly in recent years. The effect of these factors cannot be predicted. Fluctuations in the price of gold may also adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing to fund our planned exploration programs. The Mining Industry Is Highly Speculative The Company is engaged in the exploration for minerals, which involves a high degree of geological, technical and economic uncertainty because of the inability to predict future mineral prices, as well as the difficulty of determining the extent of a mineral deposit and the feasibility of its extraction without incurring considerable expenditures. Environmental Considerations Although China has enacted environmental protection legislation to regulate the mining industry, due to the very short history of this legislation, national and local environmental protection standards are still in the process of being formulated and implemented. The legislation provides for penalties and other liabilities for the violation of such standards and establishes, in certain circumstances, obligations to rehabilitate current and former facilities and locations where operations are being or have been conducted. Although the Company intends to fully comply with all environmental regulations, there is a risk that permission to conduct exploration and development activities could be withdrawn temporarily or permanently where there is evidence of serious breaches of such standards. 10 The operation of the Fuwan Project and the underlying property is generally determined by Minco Silver and we have no decision making power as to how the property is operated. We have a material interest in the Fuwan Project held by Minco Silver through its subsidiary. Minco Silver generally has the power to determine the manner in which the Fuwan Project is or will be operated, including decisions to explore the property and put it into production. The interests of Minco Silver and our Company may not always be aligned. Our inability to control the operations of the Fuwan Project may adversely affect our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. Similar adverse effects may result from any other interests we may acquire that are primarily operated by another company. In addition, we have no or very limited access to technical, geological data relating to the mine, including data as to resources or reserves, and we have not received a NI 43-101 compliant technical report in respect of the Fuwan Project addressed to us. As such, we cannot independently determine reserve or resource amounts and are instead wholly dependent on the determination of the reserves and resources by Minco Silver. We can provide no assurances as to the level of reserves or resources on the property. If Minco Silver determines there are insufficient reserves to economically operate a mine, it may determine not to commence mining operations on the property, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. Minco Silver's failure to perform or other decisions made by Minco Silver, including as to scaling back or ceasing operations, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist or Cyber-Attacks Terrorist attacks and threats, cyber-attacks, escalation of military activity or acts of war may have significant effects on general economic conditions and market liquidity, each of which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business. Future terrorist or cyber-attacks, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the U.S., Canada or their respective allies, or military or trade disruptions may significantly affect the Company’s operations. The Company does not maintain specialized insurance for possible liability resulting from a cyber-attack on its assets that may impact the Company’s business. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 