Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business may suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. There may be additional risks faced by our business. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The INTERCEPT Blood System may not achieve broad market adoption. In order to increase market adoption of the INTERCEPT Blood System, we must address issues and concerns from broad constituencies involved in the healthcare system, from blood centers to patients, transfusing physicians, key opinion leaders, hospitals, private and public sector payors, regulatory bodies and public health authorities. We may be unable to demonstrate to these constituencies that the INTERCEPT Blood System is safe, effective and economical or that the benefits of using the INTERCEPT Blood System products justify their cost and outweigh their risks. The use of the platelet system results in some processing loss of platelets. If the loss of platelets leads to increased costs for our customers, our customers or prospective customers believe that the loss of platelets reduces the efficacy of the transfusion unit, or our process requires changes in blood center or clinical regimens, prospective customers may not adopt our platelet system. Certain studies have indicated that transfusion of conventionally prepared platelets may yield higher post-transfusion platelet counts (according to a measurement called “corrected count increment”) and may be more effective than transfusion of INTERCEPT-treated platelets. Although certain studies demonstrate that INTERCEPT-treated platelets retain therapeutic function comparable to conventional platelets, customers may choose not to adopt our platelet system due to considerations relating to corrected count increment or efficacy. The INTERCEPT Blood System does not inactivate all known pathogens, and the inability of the INTERCEPT Blood System to inactivate certain pathogens may limit its market adoption. For example, our products have not been demonstrated to be effective in the inactivation of certain non-lipid-enveloped viruses, including hepatitis A virus, due to these viruses’ biology. In addition, our products have not demonstrated a high level of inactivation for human parvovirus B-19, which is also a non-lipid-enveloped virus. Although we have shown high levels of inactivation of a broad spectrum of lipid-enveloped viruses, some customers may choose not to adopt our products based on considerations concerning inability to inactivate, or limited inactivation, of certain non-lipid-enveloped viruses. Similarly, although our products have been demonstrated to effectively inactivate spore-forming bacteria, our products have not shown to be effective in inactivating bacterial spores once formed. In addition, our products do not inactivate prions since prions do not contain nucleic acid. While transmission of prions has not been a major problem in blood transfusions, and we are not aware of any competing products that inactivate prions, the inability to inactivate prions may limit market adoption of our products. Furthermore, due to limitations of detective tests, we cannot exclude that a sufficient quantity of pathogen or pathogens may still be present in active form which could present a risk of infection to the transfused patient. Such uncertainty may limit the market adoption of our products. We have conducted studies of our products in both in vitro and in vivo environments using well-established tests that are accepted by regulatory bodies. When an in vitro test was not generally available or not well-established, we conducted in vivo studies in mammalian models to predict human responses. Although we have 15 Table of Contents no reason to believe that the in vitro and in vivo studies are not predictive of actual results in humans, we cannot be certain that the results of these in vitro and in vivo studies accurately predict the actual results in humans in all cases. To the extent that actual results in human patients differs from the results of our in vitro or in vivo testing, market acceptance of our products may be negatively impacted. If customers experience operational or technical problems with the use of INTERCEPT Blood System products, market acceptance may be reduced or delayed. For example, if adverse events arise from incomplete inactivation of pathogens, improper processing or user error, or if testing of INTERCEPT-treated blood samples fails to reliably confirm pathogen inactivation, whether or not directly attributable to the INTERCEPT Blood System, customers may refrain from purchasing the products. In addition, there is a risk that further studies we or others may conduct will show results inconsistent with previous studies. Should this happen, potential customers may delay or choose not to adopt our products and existing customers may cease use of our products. In certain markets, potential customers may require us to develop, sell, and support a data management application for their operations before they would consider adopting INTERCEPT. Such development efforts may be costly or we may be unsuccessful in developing a data management application that would be broadly accepted. Failure to do so may limit market adoption. Market adoption of our products is affected by blood center budgets and the availability of reimbursement from governments, managed care payors, such as insurance companies, or other third parties. In many cases, due to the structure of the blood products industry, we have little control over budget and reimbursement discussions, which generally occur between blood centers and national or regional ministries of health and private payors. Even if a particular blood center is prepared to adopt the INTERCEPT Blood System, their hospital customers may not accept or may not have the budget to purchase INTERCEPT-treated blood products. Since blood centers would likely not eliminate the practice of screening donors or testing blood for pathogens prior to transfusion, even after implementing our products, some blood centers may not be able to identify enough cost offsets to afford to purchase our products. Budgetary concerns may be further exacerbated by the economic austerity programs implemented in European countries, which may limit the adoption of new technologies, including our products. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict the reimbursement status of newly approved, novel medical device products. For countries that do not recognize the CE Mark as being adequate for commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System in those countries, product adoption may be negatively affected because we do not have FDA approval for any of our products. Even within countries that do recognize the CE Mark, the lack of widespread product adoption in key European countries has and may in the future be adversely affecting market adoption of the INTERCEPT Blood System. The market for the INTERCEPT Blood System is highly concentrated with few customers, including often-dominant regional or national blood collection entities. Even if our products receive regulatory approval and reimbursement is available, failure to effectively market, promote, distribute, price or sell our products to any of these large customers could significantly delay or even diminish potential product revenue in those geographies. The market for pathogen inactivation systems in the United States is highly concentrated and dominated by a small number of blood collection organizations. In many countries in Western Europe and in Japan, various national blood transfusion services or Red Cross organizations collect, store and distribute virtually all of their respective nations’ blood and blood components supply. In Europe, the largest markets for our products are in Germany, France, and England. In Germany, decisions on product adoption and subsequent reimbursement are made on a regional or even blood center-by-blood center basis, but depend on both local approvals and centralized regulatory approvals from the PEI. Product specifications that receive marketing authorization from the PEI may differ from market requirements. Some potential customers may await further safety information or additional studies before choosing whether to adopt our products, and may conduct and complete their own clinical trials before adopting our products. While INTERCEPT-treated platelets and plasma have received in-country regulatory approval and reimbursement rates have been established in France, adoption throughout France has been limited to certain blood centers. Decisions on product adoption in England are centralized with 16 Table of Contents the National Blood Service and we understand that the National Blood Service has implemented bacterial detection testing for platelets without first considering pathogen inactivation. The Japanese Red Cross controls a significant majority of blood transfusions in Japan and exerts a high degree of influence on the adoption and use of blood safety measures in Japan. The Japanese Red Cross has been reviewing preclinical and clinical data on pathogen inactivation of blood over a number of years and has yet to make a formal determination to adopt any pathogen inactivation approach. We also understand that the Japanese Red Cross has begun formal evaluation of a competing technology. Before the Japanese Red Cross considers our products, we understand that we may need to commit to making certain product configuration changes. We expect to continue to generate losses. We may never achieve a profitable level of operations. Our research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses have resulted in substantial losses since our inception. The platelet and plasma systems are not approved in the United States or in many other countries around the world. The red blood cell system is in the clinical development stage and may never emerge from the clinical development stage as a marketed product. We may be required to reduce the sales price for our products in order to make our products economically attractive to our customers and to governmental and private payors, which may reduce or altogether eliminate our gross profit on sales. At our present and expected near-term sales levels of the platelet and plasma systems, our costs to manufacture, distribute, market, sell, support and administer the systems are and are expected to continue to be in excess of our revenue. We expect our losses to continue at least until we are able to gain widespread commercial adoption, which may never occur. We expect to incur additional research and development costs associated with our pursuit of the PMA application submission processes for our platelet and plasma systems, pursuing potential regulatory approvals in other geographies where we do not currently sell our platelet and plasma systems, and with planning and conducting in vitro studies and clinical development of our red blood cell system in Europe and the United States, which costs could be substantial and could extend the period during which we expect to operate at a loss. In certain countries, governments have issued regulations relating to the pricing and profitability of medical products and medical product companies. Health care reform in the United States has also placed downward pressure on the pricing of medical products and has introduced new taxation on medical devices that could further impact our profit margins if we were to gain FDA approval to begin selling our products in the United States. Should we receive FDA approval to begin selling our products in the United States, legislation surrounding health care reform may impose a 2.3% excise tax on the sale of our products, regardless of our profitability. This excise tax could reduce any potential operating profits or require us to pass on the costs to our customers. Adverse market and economic conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Sales of our products are dependent on purchasing decisions and/or reimbursement from government health administration authorities, distribution partners and other organizations. As a result of adverse conditions affecting the global economies and credit and financial markets, including the sovereign debt crisis in certain countries in Europe and disruptions due to political instability or otherwise, these organizations may defer purchases, may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations, or may delay payment for the INTERCEPT Blood System. In addition, there are concerns for the overall stability and suitability of the Euro as a single currency given the economic and political challenges facing individual Eurozone countries. Continuing deterioration in the creditworthiness of Eurozone countries, the withdrawal of one or more member countries from the European Union, or the failure of the Euro as a common European currency or an otherwise diminished value of the Euro could materially and adversely affect our reported projected product revenue. 17 Table of Contents Our products, blood products treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System and we are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign authorities. If our preclinical and clinical data are not considered sufficient by a country’s regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval, we will be unable to commercialize our products and generate revenue in that country. Our investigational red blood cell system requires extensive additional testing and development. Our products, both those sold commercially and those under development, are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by local, state and federal regulatory authorities in the United States and by foreign regulatory bodies. These regulations are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: • development; • testing; • manufacturing; • labeling; • storage; • pre-market clearance or approval; • sales and distribution; • use standards and documentation; • post-launch surveillance; • quality; • advertising and promotion; and • reimbursement. Our products must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy and we must adhere to quality standards regarding manufacturing and customer-facing business processes before the FDA and international regulatory authorities can approve them for commercial use. For our product candidates, we must provide the FDA and international regulatory authorities with preclinical, clinical and manufacturing data demonstrating that our products are safe, effective and in compliance with government regulations before the products can be approved for commercial sale. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is expensive, uncertain and typically takes a number of years. We may continue to encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure necessary approvals or licenses, or we may not be successful at all. Even if we are successful in obtaining FDA approval for our products, the FDA may limit the usage of the INTERCEPT Blood System to certain collection platforms or storage solutions or could restrict the claims that we are able to make for our products. For instance, in Europe, we are able to claim that using the INTERCEPT Blood System can replace bacterial detection, CMV testing and gamma irradiation, which are all common practices with the preparation of conventional blood components. We cannot be certain that the FDA would allow such claims initially or ever, which may result in limited market adoption in the United States and elsewhere. Clinical and Preclinical Clinical trials are particularly expensive and have a high risk of failure. Any of our product candidates may fail in the testing phase or may not achieve results sufficient to attain market acceptance, which could prevent us from achieving profitability. We do not know whether we will begin or complete clinical trials on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a study, delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study agreement terms with prospective clinical sites, delays in obtaining institutional review board, ministry of health or ethical committee approval to conduct a study at a prospective clinical site, delays in recruiting subjects to participate in a study and delays in the conduct of the clinical trial by personnel at the clinical site. Each of these factors has adversely impacted our 18 Table of Contents ongoing European Phase III trials for the red blood cell system. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially impact our clinical trials. Criteria for regulatory approval in blood safety indications are evolving, reflecting competitive advances in the standard of care against which new product candidates are judged, as well as changing market needs and reimbursement levels. Clinical trial design, including enrollment criteria, endpoints and anticipated label claims are thus subject to change, even if original objectives are being met. As a result, we do not know whether any clinical trial will result in marketable products. Typically, there is a high rate of failure for product candidates in preclinical studies and clinical trials and products emerging from any successful trial may not reach the market for several years. Enrollment criteria for certain of our clinical trials may be quite narrow, further delaying the clinical trial process. For instance, clinical trials previously conducted using INTERCEPT-treated plasma for patients with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura lasted approximately four years due in part to the difficulties associated with enrolling qualified patients. In addition, enrollment criteria have impacted the speed with which we have been able to enroll patients for our ongoing Phase III red blood cell system trial in chronic anemia in Europe. Consequently, we may be unable to recruit suitable patients into clinical trials on a timely basis, if at all, which may lead to higher costs to complete the clinical trials. We cannot rely on interim results of trials to predict their final results, and acceptable results in early trials might not be repeated in later trials. Any trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical study or clinical trial, or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial to be repeated, require other studies to be performed or cause a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to a program are successful. We have conducted many toxicology studies to demonstrate the safety of the platelet and plasma systems, and we have conducted and plan to conduct toxicology studies for the red blood cell system throughout the product development process. At any time, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may require further toxicology or other studies to further demonstrate our products’ safety, which could delay commercialization. In addition, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may alter guidance at any time as to what constitutes acceptable clinical trial endpoints or trial design, which may necessitate a redesign of our product or proposed clinical trials and cause us to incur substantial additional expense or time in attempting to gain regulatory approval. We believe the FDA and other regulatory authorities are likely to weigh the potential risks of using our pathogen inactivation products against the incremental benefits, which may be difficult or impossible to quantify. If our product candidates receive approval for commercial sale in the United States, the FDA may require a post-marketing clinical study, which can involve significant expense and will require us to secure adequate funding to complete. For example, although the FDA has indicated that no prospective Phase III clinical trials were required at this time in order to submit our proposal for a modular PMA submission for the platelet and plasma systems, the FDA has already indicated that we will likely need to commit to post-marketing studies. Other regulatory authorities outside of the United States may also require such post-marketing studies. Governments or regulatory authorities may impose new regulations or other changes or we may discover that we are subject to additional regulations that could further delay or preclude regulatory approval and subsequent adoption of our potential products. We cannot predict the adoption, implementation or impact of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action. Outside the United States, regulations vary by country, including the requirements for regulatory and marketing approvals or clearance, the time required for regulatory review and the sanctions imposed for violations. In addition to CE mark documentation, countries outside the European Union may require clinical data submissions, registration packages, import licenses or other documentation. Regulatory authorities in Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea, Vietnam, Thailand, and Singapore and elsewhere, may require, among other requirements, that our products be widely adopted commercially in Europe or approved by the FDA before they are considered for approval or may delay approval decisions until our products are more widely adopted commercially and approved by the FDA. 19 Table of Contents In addition to the regulatory requirements applicable to us and to our products, there are regulatory requirements in several countries around the world, including the United States, Germany, Canada, Austria, and Australia, and other countries, applicable to prospective customers of INTERCEPT Blood System products, the blood centers that process and distribute blood and blood products. In those countries, blood centers and other customers are required to obtain approved license supplements from the appropriate regulatory authorities in each country before making available blood products processed with our pathogen inactivation systems to hospitals and transfusing physicians. Our customers may lack the resources or capability to obtain such regulatory approvals. These requirements or regulators’ delays in approving license applications or supplements may deter some blood centers from using our products. Blood centers that do submit applications or supplements for manufacturing and sale may face disapproval or delays in approval that could provide further delay or deter them from using our products. The regulatory impact on potential customers could slow or limit the potential sales of our products. Platelet System In 2007, we obtained a CE mark approval (extended in 2012) from European Union regulators for our platelet system and will need to obtain an extension every five years. We or our customers may also be required to conduct additional testing in order to obtain regulatory approval in countries that do not recognize the CE mark as being adequate for commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System in those countries. The level of additional product testing varies by country, but could be expensive or take a long time to complete. In addition, regulatory agencies are able to withdraw or suspend previously issued approvals. In the U.S., we will be required to successfully complete the submission to the FDA of all three modules of the PMA, including resolving any outstanding review letters received from the FDA, before the platelet system would be considered for approval. Once the PMA is considered filed, the FDA will commence its substantive review of the PMA, including potential inspection and audits of clinical sites and manufacturing facilities. In addition, after the PMA is considered filed, the substantive review is initially scheduled to last 180 days, although this 180-day time period can be reset if major deficiencies are identified and ultimately remediated or if we voluntarily submit a major amendment to the PMA during this period. We will not receive an approval decision from the FDA until the substantive review is complete and we cannot predict the timing or outcome of the decision. Any responses, correspondence, rejections or approvals that we may receive in connection with the plasma PMA process would not be indicative or dispositive of the status of the approval process for the platelet PMA. We completed a Phase III clinical trial of the platelet system in the United States in March 2001 and a supplemental analysis of data from this trial in 2005. We submitted this information along with several other modules of our PMA, to the FDA. Although FDA has indicated that no prospective Phase III clinical trials are required at this time, the FDA may require us to complete additional Phase III clinical trials before approval would be granted. If additional Phase III clinical trials are required for approval, we will likely only initiate such trials if adequate funding can be secured. We have limited experience with the modular PMA process and may encounter unanticipated difficulties complying with the prescribed submission timing or other modular PMA requirements. Such difficulties could affect our ability to complete the PMA submission process successfully or in the anticipated timeframes that we expect. Should significant questions arise during the submission process or if we are required to conduct additional clinical trials to support our PMA submission, approval may take a significant period of time to obtain, if ever. Plasma System In 2006, we obtained a CE mark approval (extended in 2011) from European Union regulators for our plasma system and final French approval of INTERCEPT-treated plasma in May 2007. SwissMedic approved INTERCEPT-treated plasma in September 2010. In February 2011, the first approval for use of INTERCEPT-treated plasma was obtained from the Paul Ehrlich Institute by a blood center in Germany. In some countries, including several in Europe, we or our customers may be required to perform additional clinical studies or submit manufacturing and marketing applications in order to obtain regulatory approval. 20 Table of Contents We have filed our agreed upon PMA for the plasma system with the FDA. The FDA is now reviewing the submission and may audit us, clinical sites or manufacturing facilities that produce our product. We may receive deficiency notices from the FDA at any time during the substantive review of the PMA and our ability to answer and remediate such deficiencies, should they arise, will be required before the FDA would consider approving our plasma product. Should we have difficulties answering or remediating any deficiency letters or if we are required to conduct additional clinical trials to support our planned PMA submission, approval may take a significant period of time to obtain, if ever. Although we have completed Phase III clinical trials in various patient populations and have submitted supplemental data collected in commercial use in Europe, the FDA may require us to complete additional Phase III clinical trials, before approval would be granted. The FDA may also limit the particular indications or uses for our plasma system if they believe that our clinical data is insufficient for broader usage or if the collection and storage methods supporting our clinical data are considered to be incompatible with broad usage. Should the FDA require us to complete any additional clinical trials, our willingness and ability to conduct and complete any additional clinical trials of the plasma system to support approval in the United States would be subject to our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations or obtain adequate funding from external sources before we would initiate any such trials. Before the FDA determines whether to approve the INTERCEPT Blood System products, we expect the FDA to seek the advice of the BPAC. Even if BPAC were to recommend approval of one or more of our products, the FDA is not required to adopt BPAC’s recommendation. If BPAC were to answer FDA questions recommending against approval of one or more of our products, the FDA would have to take into consideration the points of concern raised by BPAC which could affect the approval of the products. Red Blood Cell System Our red blood cell system is currently in development and has not been commercialized anywhere in the world. Significant clinical, development and financial resources will be required to progress the red blood cell system into a commercially viable product and to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for the product. We have not been successful in developing any product candidates that have received FDA approval in the past. Clinical testing and development of the red blood cell system will take many years to complete and failure can occur any time during the clinical trial process. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for the red blood cell system would prevent or delay its commercialization, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Many of the factors described above that can contribute to the failure or delay of a clinical trial could impact the trials we conduct for our red blood cell system. Even if we are successful in earlier clinical trials, the results of those early trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later and larger clinical trials of the red blood cell system. In those cases, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may require we engage in additional clinical trials or conduct further studies or analysis which may be costly and time-consuming. In some instances, we are relying on contract research organizations and other third parties to assist us in designing, managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out our clinical trials for the red blood cell system. We do not control these third parties and, as a result, they may not treat our clinical studies as their highest priority, or in the manner in which we would prefer, which could result in delays. Additionally, if we, our contract research organizations or other third parties assisting us or our study sites fail to comply with applicable good clinical practices, the clinical data generated in those trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or its non-U.S. counterparts may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving the red blood cell system for commercialization. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with good clinical practices. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under the FDA’s cGMP regulations and similar regulations outside of the United States. Our failure, or the failure of our product manufacturers, to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat or redesign clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. 21 Table of Contents In 2003, we terminated Phase III clinical trials evaluating a prior generation of the red blood cell system in acute and chronic anemia patients. The trials were terminated due to the detection of antibody reactivity to INTERCEPT-treated red blood cells in two patients in the Phase III clinical trial for chronic anemia. Although the antibody reactivity was not associated with any adverse events, we developed process changes designed to diminish the likelihood of antibody reactivity in red blood cells treated with our modified process. In a subsequent Phase I clinical trial that we initiated in the fourth quarter of 2008 to evaluate recovery and survival of treated red blood cells with the modified process, there were no adverse events reported. Based on the results from that trial, we have obtained approval for and recently commenced two Phase III clinical trials in Europe using the modified process in patients with acute and chronic anemia. However, we cannot assure you that the adverse events observed in the terminated Phase III clinical trials of our red blood cell system will not be observed in these current or any future Phase III clinical trials of our red blood cell system. In addition, although the unblinded data from our 2003 Phase III clinical trial of the red blood cell system for acute anemia patients indicated that the primary endpoint had been met, we cannot assure you that the same result will be observed in any potential future Phase III clinical trials using our modified process. The FDA has required that we successfully complete an additional Phase II recovery and survival study, which we are currently conducting, prior to reaching agreement on any Phase III clinical trial protocol which we would likely need to successfully conduct and complete before the FDA would consider our red blood cell product for approval. Significantly lower lifespan for INTERCEPT-treated red blood cells compared to non-treated red blood cells may limit our ability to obtain regulatory approval for the product. We also understand that one or more additional in vitro studies will be required to be successfully completed and submitted to the FDA prior to any initiation of a potential Phase III clinical trial. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully satisfy any such prerequisites, nor can there be any assurance that we and the FDA will agree to any trial protocol we propose or that we will otherwise obtain FDA clearance to initiate a potential Phase III clinical trial. We are currently enrolling patients in two European Phase III clinical trials of our red blood cell system: one for acute anemia patients and separately, one for chronic anemia patients. Such studies, including the studies required by the FDA prior to its review of any proposed U.S. Phase III clinical trial protocol, could prolong development of the red blood cell system, and we do not expect to receive any regulatory approvals of our red blood cell system for a number of years, if ever. We understand that while the acute anemia Phase III clinical trial in Europe may be sufficient to receive CE mark approval in Europe if the results are positive, a successful outcome in the Phase III chronic anemia clinical trial would also be required for our red blood cell system to achieve broad market acceptance. In addition, the trials may need to be supplemented by additional, successful Phase III clinical trials for approval in certain countries. If such additional Phase III clinical trials are required, they would likely need to demonstrate equivalency of INTERCEPT-treated red blood cells compared to conventional red blood cells. A number of trial design issues that could impact efficacy, regulatory approval and market acceptance will need to be resolved prior to the initiation of further clinical trials. We will also need to complete a number of in vitro studies, finalize development of the final commercial configuration of the red blood cell system and manufacture and validate sufficient quantities of the final red blood cell system prior to receiving any regulatory approvals in Europe or the United States. Many of these activities will require capital beyond that which we currently have, and we will be required to obtain additional capital in order to complete the development of and obtain any regulatory approvals for the red blood cell system. If we are unsuccessful in advancing the red blood cell system through clinical trials, resolving process and product design issues or in obtaining subsequent regulatory approvals and acceptable reimbursement rates, we may never realize a return on our research and development expenses incurred to date for the red blood cell system program. Regulatory delays can also materially impact our product development costs. If we continue to experience delays in testing, conducting trials or approvals, our product development costs will increase. Even if we were to successfully complete and receive approval for our red blood cell system, potential customers may object to working with a potent chemical, like S-303, the active compound in the red blood cell system, or may require modifications to automate the process, which would result in additional development costs, any of which could limit any market acceptance of the red blood cell system. 22 Table of Contents We have limited experience operating a global commercial organization. We have limited resources and experience complying with regulatory, legal, tax and political complexities as we expand into new and increasingly broad geographies. We are responsible for worldwide sales, marketing, distribution, maintenance and regulatory support of the INTERCEPT Blood System. If we fail in our efforts to develop or maintain such internal competencies or establish acceptable relationships with third parties to support us in these areas on a timely basis, our ability to commercialize the INTERCEPT Blood System may be irreparably harmed. We have a wholly-owned subsidiary, headquartered in The Netherlands, dedicated primarily to selling and marketing the platelet and plasma systems in Europe, the CIS and the Middle East. We will need to maintain and continue to increase our competence in a number of functions, including sales, marketing, regulatory, inventory and logistics, customer service, credit and collections, risk management, and quality assurance systems not only for these existing markets, but also if and as we expand into the Latin and South American and Asian markets. Many of these competencies require compliance with European Union, South American, Asian and local standards and practices, with which we have limited experience. Should we be successful in commercializing our products in geographies beyond the current markets in which we sell our products, we may need to add resources and develop competencies to ensure compliance with local regulatory, legal and tax requirements. We have limited experience operating on a global scale and we may be unsuccessful complying with the variety and complexity of laws and regulations in a timely manner, if at all. We rely on third parties to market, sell, distribute and maintain our products and to maintain customer relationships in certain countries. We have entered into distribution agreements, generally on a geographically exclusive basis, with distributors in countries where we have limited abilities to commercialize our products directly. We rely on these distributors to obtain any necessary in-country regulatory approvals, as well as market and sell the INTERCEPT Blood System, provide customer and technical product support, maintain inventories, and adhere to our quality system in all material respects, among other activities. Generally, our distribution agreements require distributors to purchase minimum quantities in a given year over the term of the agreement. Failure by our distributors to meet these minimum purchase obligations may impact our financial results. While our contracts generally require distributors to exercise diligence, these distributors may fail to commercialize the INTERCEPT Blood System in their respective territories. For example, our distributors may fail to sell product inventory they have purchased from us to end customers or may sell competing products ahead of or in conjunction with INTERCEPT. In addition, initial purchases of illuminators or INTERCEPT disposable kits by these third parties may not lead to follow-on purchases of platelet and plasma systems’ disposable kits. Agreements with our distributors typically require the distributor to maintain quality standards that are compliant with standards generally accepted for medical devices. We may be unable to ensure that our distributors are compliant with such standards. Further, we have limited visibility into the identity and requirements of blood banking customers these distributors may have. Accordingly, we may be unable to ensure our distributors properly maintain illuminators sold or provide quality technical services to the blood banking customers to which they sell. In addition, although our agreements with our distributors generally require compliance with local anti-corruption laws, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local and international regulations, we have limited ability to control the actions of our distributors to ensure they are in compliance. Noncompliance by a distributor could expose us to civil or criminal liability, fines and/or prohibitions on selling our products in certain countries. Currently, a fairly concentrated number of distributors make up a significant portion of our revenue and we may have little recourse, short of termination, in the event that a distributor fails to execute according to our expectations and contractual provisions. In 2013, we experienced weaker than expected growth due to declining performance by certain of our distributors. We recently announced that we have and are planning to continue to pursue certain strategic changes to our distribution territories. In 2013, we began transitioning certain territories 23 Table of Contents to new distribution partners who we felt were capable of improved performance relative to their predecessors. Because these are new distribution partners who have limited experience marketing and selling our products, we cannot be certain that these new distribution partners will perform better than their predecessors. For 2014, we are evaluating additional ways to optimize INTERCEPT penetration in key distributor territories, including potentially transitioning some of these territories to a Cerus direct sales model, which we believe will provide us with better visibility into and control of sales execution. However, implementing these changes to our distributor territories may temporarily impact the volume of INTERCEPT disposable kit sales as distribution partners sell through their disposable kit inventory, as well as require additional resources within the impacted territories. In certain cases, our distributors hold the regulatory approval to sell INTERCEPT for their particular geography. The loss of these distributors would require us to negotiate a transfer of the applicable regulatory approvals to us which may be difficult to do in a timely manner, or at all. We expect that our product revenues will be adversely impacted with the loss or transition of one or more of these distributors. If we chose to terminate our distributor agreements, we would either need to reach agreement with, qualify, train and supply a replacement distributor or supply and service end-user customer accounts in those territories ourselves. Although our distribution agreements generally provide that the distributor will promptly and efficiently transfer its existing customer agreements to us, there can be no assurance that this will happen in a timely manner or at all. Doing so may be disruptive for our customers and our reputation may be damaged as a result. Our distribution partners may have more established relationships with potential end user customers than a new distributor or we may have in particular territory, which could adversely impact our ability to successfully commercialize our products in these territories. In addition, it may take longer for us to be paid if payment timing and terms in these new arrangements are less favorable to us than those in our existing distributor arrangements. Further, if we were to service end-user accounts directly ourselves rather than through distributors, we will likely incur additional expense and our working capital may be damaged. Current or transitioning distributors may irreparably harm relationships with local existing and prospective customers and our standing with the blood banking community in general. In the event that we are unable to find alternative distributors or mobilize our own sales efforts in the territories in which a particular distributor operates, customer supply, our reputation and our operating results may be adversely affected. Our manufacturing supply chain exposes us to significant risks. We do not own our own manufacturing facilities, but rather manufacture our products using a number of third party suppliers, many of whom are our sole suppliers for the particular product or component that we procure. We rely on various contracts and our relationships with these suppliers to ensure that the sourced products are manufactured in sufficient quantities, timely, to our exact specifications and at prices we agree upon with the supplier. Certain of our suppliers that we rely on for the manufacture of the platelet, plasma and red blood cell systems and components thereof, have not been FDA-approved for the manufacture of our products. In order to be used in clinical studies or sold in the United States, our products would be required to be manufactured in FDA-approved facilities. FDA approval for the manufacture of INTERCEPT, whether in facilities owned by Fresenius or by other parties, may be costly and time-consuming. Before our products would be considered for marketing approval in the United States or elsewhere, our suppliers will have to pass an audit by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. We are dependent on our suppliers’ cooperation and ability to pass such audits. Such audits and any audit remediation may be costly. Failure to pass such audits by any of our suppliers would affect our ability to obtain licensure in the United States or elsewhere. In November 2013, we amended our manufacturing and supply agreement with Fresenius with the new terms effective January 1, 2014. Under the amended agreement, Fresenius is obligated to sell, and we are obligated to purchase up to a certain specified annual volume of finished disposable kits for the platelet and plasma systems from Fresenius for both clinical and commercial use. Once the specified annual volume of disposable kits is purchased from Fresenius, we are able to purchase additional quantities of disposable kits from other third-party manufactures. The amended terms also provide for fixed pricing for finished kits with successive decreases in pricing at certain annual production volumes. In addition, the amendment requires us to purchase additional specified annual volumes of sets per annum if and when an additional Fresenius 24 Table of Contents manufacturing site is identified and qualified to make INTERCEPT disposable kits, subject to mutual agreement on pricing for disposable kits manufactured at the additional site. Fresenius is also obligated to purchase and maintain specified inventory levels of our proprietary inactivation compounds and compound adsorption devices from us at fixed prices. The term of the amended manufacturing and supply agreement with Fresenius extends through December 31, 2018, subject to termination by either party upon thirty months prior written notice, in the case of Fresenius, or twenty-four months prior written notice, in our case. We and Fresenius each have normal and customary termination rights, including termination for material breach. Fresenius is our sole supplier for the manufacture of these products. Fresenius may fail to manufacture an adequate supply of INTERCEPT disposable kits which would harm our business. We also have contracts with other third-party suppliers, including Ash Stevens for the manufacture of amotosalen, our proprietary compound for inactivating pathogens using our platelet and plasma systems; Purolite, and separately, Porex, for the manufacture of components of the compound adsorption devices used in our platelet and plasma systems; and r NOVA for the manufacture of illuminators and certain components of the INTERCEPT Blood System. These independent suppliers are our sole suppliers for such components. Our manufacturing and supply agreement with Ash Stevens extends through December 31, 2015, and is automatically renewable thereafter for periods of two years each, but may be terminated by Ash Stevens provided that Ash Stevens notifies us in writing at least two years in advance. Although we are not subject to minimum annual purchase requirements under the manufacturing and supply agreement with Ash Stevens, we may be required to pay a maintenance fee of up to $50,000 a year if specified quantities of amotosalen are not purchased in any year. We have incurred these maintenance fees in the past and may incur these maintenance fees in future periods. Our supply agreement with Porex was amended in November 2012 and now expires on December 31, 2014. Porex is our sole supplier for such components of the compound adsorption devices. We are subject to certain minimum annual purchase requirements under our agreement with Porex and are required to compensate Porex if we do not meet such minimum annual purchase requirements. Our supply agreement with Purolite extends through December 2014, and automatically renews each year for additional one year terms absent written notice of non-renewal delivered at least two (2) years in advance of any term expiration. Purolite may terminate the supply agreement provided that Purolite notifies us in writing at least two years in advance. We are currently in discussions with Purolite to amend our agreement. Our agreement with NOVA, which manufacturers our illuminators, extends through September 2014 and is automatically renewable for one year terms, but may be terminated by NOVA on at least twelve months’ prior written notice. Facilities at which the INTERCEPT Blood System or its components are manufactured may cease operations for planned or unplanned reasons, causing at least temporary interruptions in supply. Even a temporary failure to supply adequate numbers of INTERCEPT Blood System components may cause an irreparable loss of customer goodwill. Although we are actively evaluating alternate suppliers for certain of our products and components, we do not have qualified suppliers beyond those on which we currently rely, and we understand that Fresenius relies substantially on sole suppliers of certain materials for our products. Identification and qualification of alternate suppliers will be time consuming and costly. If we conclude that supply of the INTERCEPT Blood System or components from Fresenius and others is uncertain, we may choose to build and maintain inventories of raw materials, work-in-process components, or finished goods, which would consume capital resources and may cause our supply chain to be less efficient. Currently NOVA is manufacturing illuminators to meet customer demand and maintain our own inventory levels. Subject to obsolescence, we may be required to identify and qualify replacement components for illuminators and in doing so, we may be required to conduct additional studies, which could include clinical trials to demonstrate equivalency or validate any required design or component changes. Future supply of illuminators is limited to availability of components, some of which are in short supply or are no longer manufactured. Certain of our components are in limited supply and are used as spare parts for the maintenance of illuminators 25 Table of Contents used by our customers. We and our customers rely on the availability of spare parts to ensure that customer platelet and plasma production is not interrupted. If we are not able to supply spare parts for the maintenance of customer illuminators, our ability to keep existing customers or sign up new customers may be negatively impacted. Due to the obsolescence of certain parts, we will likely need to redesign the illuminators used in the platelet and plasma systems. Such redesign may be expensive and could lead to regulatory delays in obtaining approvals to market the redesigned device. In the event that alternate manufacturers are identified and qualified, we will need to transfer know-how relevant to the manufacture of the INTERCEPT Blood System to such alternate manufacturers; however, certain of our supplier’s materials, manufacturing processes and methods are proprietary to them, which will impair our ability to establish alternate sources of supply, even if we are required to do so as a condition of regulatory approval. We may be unable to establish alternate sources of supply to Fresenius, NOVA, or other suppliers without having to redesign certain elements of the platelet and plasma systems. Such redesign may be costly, time consuming and require further regulatory review and approvals. Fresenius is not obligated to provide support for development and testing of improvements or changes we may make to the INTERCEPT Blood System. We may be unable to identify, select, and qualify such manufacturers or those third parties able to provide support for development and testing activities on a timely basis or enter into contracts with them on reasonable terms, if at all. Moreover, the inclusion of components manufactured by new suppliers could require us to seek new or updated approvals from regulatory authorities, which could result in delays in product delivery. We may not receive any such required regulatory approvals. We cannot assure you that any amendments to existing manufacturing agreements or any new manufacturing agreements that we may enter into will contain terms favorable to those that we currently have with our manufacturers. Should we enter into agreements with any manufacturer with less favorable terms, our results of operations may be impacted, our recourse against such manufacturers may be limited, and the quality of our products may be impacted. Raw materials, components or finished product may not meet specifications or may be subject to other nonconformities. In several instances over the past two years, nonconformities in certain component lots have caused delays in manufacturing of INTERCEPT disposable kits. Non-conformities can increase our expenses and reduce gross margins. Should non-conformities occur in the future, we may be unable to manufacture products to meet customer demand, which would result in lost sales and could cause irreparable damage to our customer relationships. Later discovery of problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in additional restrictions on the product, manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. We are subject to risks and costs of product recall, which include not only potential out-of-pocket costs, but also potential interruption to our supply chain. In such an event, our customer relations could be harmed and we would incur unforeseen losses. In the event of a failure by Fresenius or other manufacturers to perform their obligations to supply components of the INTERCEPT Blood System to us, damages recoverable by us may be insufficient to compensate us for the full loss of business opportunity. Many of our supply agreements contain limitations on incidental and consequential damages that we may recover. A supplier’s potential liability in the event of non-performance may not be sufficient to compel the supplier to continue to act in conformity with our agreements. Our product supply chain requires us to purchase certain components in minimum quantities and may result in a production cycle of more than one year. Significant disruptions to any of the steps in our supply chain process may result in longer productions cycles which could lead to inefficient use of cash or may impair our ability to supply customers with product. We may encounter unforeseen manufacturing difficulties which, at a minimum, may lead to higher than anticipated costs, scrap rates, manufacturing overhead variances or delays in manufacturing products. In addition, we may not receive timely or accurate demand information from distributors or may not accurately forecast demand ourselves for the INTERCEPT Blood System. As a result, we may carry excess work-in-process or finished goods inventory, which would consume capital resources and may become obsolete, or our inventory may be inadequate to meet customer demand. We have entered into certain public tenders, some which call for us 26 Table of Contents to maintain certain minimum levels of inventory. If our suppliers fail to produce components or our finished products satisfactorily, timely, at acceptable costs, and in sufficient quantities, we may incur delays, shortfalls and additional expenses, or non-compliance with certain public tenders which may in turn result in permanent harm to our customer relations or loss of customers. Our platelet and plasma systems’ disposable kits have a two-year shelf life from the date of manufacture. We and our distributors may be unable to ship product to customers prior to the expiration of the product shelf life, which would require that we destroy or consume the outdated inventory in product demonstration activities. Product expiration may in turn lead to elevated product demonstration costs or reduced gross margins. We are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties and harm our reputation and business. We are subject to a number of laws that affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians, healthcare providers or other potential purchasers of our products. These laws are often broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. For example, within the European Union, the control of unlawful marketing activities is a matter of national law in each of the member states. The member states of the European Union closely monitor perceived unlawful marketing activity by companies. We could face civil, criminal and administrative sanctions if any member state determines that we have breached our obligations under its national laws. Industry associations also closely monitor the activities of member companies. If these organizations or authorities name us as having breached our obligations under their regulations, rules or standards, our reputation would suffer and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-corruption laws, and similar laws with a significant anti-corruption intent in foreign countries. In general, there is a worldwide trend to strengthen anticorruption laws and their enforcement. Any violation of these laws by us or our agents or distributors could create a substantial liability for us, subject our officers and directors to personal liability and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. We currently operate in many countries where the public sector is perceived as being more or highly corrupt. Our strategic business plans include expanding our business in regions and countries that are rated as higher risk for corruption activity, such as China, India and Russia. Becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with laws, rules and regulations applicable to new business activities and mitigate and protect against corruption risks could be quite costly. In addition, failure by us or our agents or distributors to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay our expansion into high-growth markets, could damage market perception of our business and could adversely affect our existing business operations. Increased business in higher risk countries could also subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability. Our platelet products and product candidates are not compatible with some collection and storage methods or combinations thereof. The equipment and materials used to collect platelets vary by manufacturer and by geographic region. Platelets may be collected from a single donor by apheresis using an automated collection machine. Apheresis devices currently used in the United States and European markets differ, among other characteristics, in their ability to collect platelets in reduced volumes of plasma. Platelet concentrates may also be prepared from whole blood by pooling together platelets from multiple donors. There are two commonly used methods for preparing whole blood platelets: the buffy coat method, which is used extensively in Europe, and the pooled random donor method, which is used in the United States. Our platelet system is designed to work with platelets collected and stored in storage solutions, called Intersol and SSP+, and for platelets suspended in 100% plasma. Fresenius is the exclusive manufacturer of Intersol and MacoPharma of SSP+, both widely-used platelet additive solutions. Many of our customers and prospective customers use Intersol or SSP+ in connection with INTERCEPT treatment. Should Fresenius or MacoPharma fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for Intersol or SSP+, respectively, or if either should decide to cease distribution of their respective additive solutions to customers and 27 Table of Contents prospective customers, our ability to sell the INTERCEPT Blood System may be impaired. In addition, we may be required to produce and demonstrate additional acceptable data for usage of the INTERCEPT Blood System with various combinations of collection platforms and storage solutions before we could receive regulatory approval from the FDA and elsewhere. In order to address the entire market in the United States, Japan, and potentially elsewhere, we would need to develop and test additional configurations of the platelet system. For example, in the United States, we understand a significant number of platelet concentrates are derived from larger volumes collected from apheresis donors split into three therapeutic transfusable doses. Future configurations of the platelet system will be needed to treat platelet donations with such processing parameters. We estimate that the majority of platelets used in the United States are collected by apheresis, though a significant minority is prepared from pooled random donor platelets derived from whole blood collections. In order to gain regulatory approvals for a pathogen inactivation system compatible with random donor platelets, we will need to perform additional product development and testing, including additional clinical trials. Similarly, to achieve market acceptance in certain geographies, we may be required to design, develop and test new product configurations for the platelet and plasma systems. These development activities would increase our costs significantly and may not be successful. We may need to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our platelet system using a variety of configurations before our platelet system would be approved for such configurations. Other manufacturers supplying blood component collection platforms to the market may resist our efforts to make the INTERCEPT Blood System for platelets compatible with their platforms and may have competing pathogen inactivation technologies. In addition, regulatory agencies such as the FDA may limit usage of the INTERCEPT Blood System to certain collection platforms, platelet additive solutions and plasma. Attaining compatibility or receiving regulatory approval with collection platforms manufactured by others in combination with additive solutions or 100% plasma may require additional clinical testing, adaptations to either the INTERCEPT Blood System or to the collection platforms, which may be difficult to engineer, expensive to implement and test, require additional clinical trials, cause delays in regulatory approval and/or be commercially unattractive to pursue. These development activities may increase our costs significantly and may not be successful. Market acceptance of the INTERCEPT Blood System may be delayed until the system receives regulatory approval for use on such other equipment, if required. We have used prototype components in our preclinical studies and clinical trials of the red blood cell system and have not completed the components’ commercial design. We will be required to identify and enter into agreements with third parties to manufacture the red blood cell system. The red blood cell systems that have been used and are currently being used in our clinical trials have been and are prototypes of the system expected to be used in the final product. As a result, we plan to perform additional preclinical studies and clinical trials using the commercial version of the system to demonstrate the acceptability of the commercial configuration and the equivalence of the prototypes and the commercial product, which will increase our expenses and delay the potential commercialization of our red blood cell system. We may determine that the red blood cell system may not be commercially feasible from potential customers’ perspectives. If we fail to develop commercial versions of the red blood cell system in a timely manner, our potential revenue would be delayed or diminished and our potential competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do. The design and engineering effort required to complete the final commercial version of our red blood cell system will likely be substantial and time-consuming. As with any complex development effort, we expect to encounter design, engineering and manufacturing issues. Such issues have previously arisen, sometimes unexpectedly, and solutions to these issues have not always been readily forthcoming. Additional unforeseen design, engineering and manufacturing issues may arise in the future, which could increase the development cost and delay commercialization of our red blood cell system. 28 Table of Contents We will need to identify and contract with manufacturers who can develop processes to manufacture components and the compounds used in the red blood cell system. For commercial manufacturing, we will need to demonstrate to regulatory authorities that the commercial scale manufacturing processes comply with government regulations and that the compounds are equivalent to originally licensed compounds. It may be difficult to economically manufacture the red blood cell system on a commercial scale. If our competitors develop products superior to ours, market their products more effectively than we market our products, or receive regulatory approval before our products, our commercial opportunities could be reduced or eliminated. We expect our products will continue to encounter significant competition. The INTERCEPT Blood System products compete with other approaches to blood safety currently in use and may compete with future products that may be developed by others. Our success will depend in part on our ability to respond quickly to customer and prospective customer needs, successfully receive and maintain regulatory approvals, and adapt to medical and technological changes brought about by the development and introduction of new products. Competitors’ products or technologies may make our products obsolete or non-competitive before we are able to generate any significant revenue. In addition, competitors or potential competitors may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. They may also have greater experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials and other regulatory approval procedures. If competitors’ products experience significant problems, customers and potential customers may question the safety and efficacy of all pathogen inactivation technologies, including the INTERCEPT Blood System. Such questions and concerns may impair our ability to market and sell the INTERCEPT Blood System. Several companies have, or are developing, technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for products that will directly compete with or reduce the market for our pathogen inactivation systems. A number of companies are specifically focusing on alternative strategies for pathogen inactivation in platelets and plasma. These alternative strategies may be more effective in inactivating certain types of pathogens from blood products, including certain non-lipid-enveloped viruses, such as hepatitis A virus, which our products have not demonstrated an ability to inactivate, or human parvovirus B-19, which is also a non-lipid-enveloped virus, for which our products have not demonstrated a high level of inactivation. While studies have demonstrated that our products can effectively inactivate a broad spectrum of pathogens in blood components, market adoption of our products may be reduced if customers determine that competitors’ products inactivate a broader range of pathogens that are of particular interest to the transfusion medicine community. In addition, customers and prospective customers may believe that our competitors’ products are safer or more cost effective than INTERCEPT Blood System products. In Europe, several companies, including Grifols S.A., Octapharma AG, MacoPharma International and Kedrion Biopharma, are developing or selling commercial pathogen inactivation systems or services to treat fresh frozen plasma. TerumoBCT, a subsidiary of Terumo Corporation, has developed a pathogen inactivation system for blood products and has been issued CE marks for a pathogen reduction system for both platelets and plasma. We understand that TerumoBCT is also developing a pathogen inactivation system for whole blood. TerumoBCT’s product candidate, if successful, may offer competitive advantages over our INTERCEPT Blood System. Terumo Corporation is a large Japanese-based, multinational corporation with more mature products and relationships than we have. Our ability to commercialize our products in certain markets, particularly in Japan, may be negatively affected by Terumo’s resources and their pre-existing relationships with regulators and customers. Should TerumoBCT’s product be approved for use and commercialized in Japan, we would likely directly compete with them and we believe we would likely either need to establish operations in Japan or partner with a local Japanese company. Octapharma AG received FDA approval in January 2013 to sell treated fresh frozen plasma for certain indications and will likely be commercialized ahead of our own plasma product candidate. Should Octapharma enter into exclusive agreements with key customers, our plasma product candidate, should it receive approval in the United States, may encounter market resistance and have a more limited market into which we can sell. 29 Table of Contents Other companies developing competing products may also offer and sell other blood-banking products and services. As a result, competitors may have pre-existing long-term relationships with customers and may be able to offer synergies for both pathogen inactivation and non-pathogen inactivation products that we are unable to offer. Regulatory agencies may mandate use of competing products which would limit our ability to sell our products in those markets. New methods of testing whole blood for specific pathogens have been approved by the FDA and in Europe, as have tests for bacteria in platelets. Other companies are marketing rapid, point-of-care bacterial tests, and developing synthetic blood product substitutes and products to stimulate the growth of platelets. Development and commercialization of any of these or other related technologies could limit the potential market for our products as would a mandate of any competing technology other than INTERCEPT. We may be liable and we may need to withdraw our products from the market if our products harm people. We may be liable if an accident occurs in our controlled use of hazardous materials. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to offset losses we may incur. We are exposed to potential liability risks inherent in the testing and marketing of medical devices. We may be liable if any of our products cause injury, illness or death. Although we will have completed rigorous preclinical and clinical safety testing prior to marketing our products, there may be harmful effects caused by our products that we are unable to identify in preclinical or clinical testing. In particular, unforeseen, rare reactions or adverse side effects related to long-term use of our products may not be observed until the products are in widespread commercial use. Because of the limited duration and number of patients receiving blood components treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System products in clinical trials, it is possible that harmful effects of our products not observed in preclinical and clinical testing could be discovered after a marketing approval has been received. For example, in cases where we have obtained regulatory approval for our products, we have demonstrated pathogen inactivation to specified levels based on well-established tests. However, there is no way to determine, after treatment by our products, whether our products have completely inactivated all of the pathogens that may be present in blood components. There is also no way to determine whether any residual amount of a pathogen remains in the blood component treated by our products and there is no way to exclude that such residual amount would be enough to cause disease in the transfused patient. For ethical reasons, we cannot conduct human testing to determine whether an individual who receives a transfusion of a blood component containing a pathogen that was inactivated using the INTERCEPT Blood System might show positive results if tested for an antibody against that pathogen. While we believe, based on the clinical experience of our scientists, that the level of inactivated pathogens would likely be too small to induce a detectable antibody response in diagnostic tests, we cannot exclude that a transfused patient might show positive results if tested for an antibody against that pathogen. We could be subject to a claim from a patient that tests positive, even though that patient did not contract a disease. We maintain product liability insurance, but do not know whether the insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including certain hazardous chemicals, radioactive materials and infectious pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis viruses. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials are adequate and comply with regulatory requirements, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for any damages that result. 30 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our future operations or if we are unable to generate positive cash flows from our operations, we will need to curtail planned development or sales and commercialization activities. Our near-term capital requirements are dependent on various factors, including operating costs and working capital investments associated with commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System, costs associated with the modular PMA submission process for both the platelet and plasma systems, costs associated with pursuing potential regulatory approvals in other geographies where we do not currently sell our platelet and plasma systems, costs associated with conducting in vitro studies and clinical development of our red blood cell system in Europe and the United States, including our two ongoing European Phase III clinical trials for the red blood cell system, and costs related to creating, maintaining and defending our intellectual property. Our long-term capital requirements will also be dependent on the success of our sales efforts, competitive developments, the timing, costs and magnitude of our longer-term clinical trials and other development activities related to our platelet, plasma and red blood cell systems, market preparedness and product launch activities for any of our products in geographies where we do not currently sell our products, and regulatory factors. Until we are able to generate a sufficient amount of product revenue and generate positive net cash flows from operations, which we may never do, meeting our long-term capital requirements is in large part subject to access to public and private equity and debt capital markets, as well as to collaborative arrangements with partners, augmented by cash generated from operations and interest income earned on the investment of our cash balances. We believe that cash received from product sales, our available cash balances and access to debt will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, we could consume our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect, which could adversely affect the commercialization and clinical development activities. We have borrowed and in the future may borrow additional capital from institutional and commercial banking sources to fund future growth outside of our credit agreement with Comerica Bank, as described below, on terms that may include restrictive covenants, including covenants that restrict the operation of our business, liens on assets, high effective interest rates and repayment provisions that reduce cash resources and limit future access to capital markets. In addition, we expect to continue to opportunistically seek access to the equity capital markets to support our development efforts and operations. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration or partnering arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some of our rights to our technologies or rights to market and sell our products in certain geographies, grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, or issue equity that may be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. As a result of economic conditions, general global economic uncertainty and other factors, we do not know whether additional capital will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will be able to obtain additional capital on reasonable terms. If we are unable to raise additional capital due to disruptions to the global credit and financial markets, general economic uncertainty or other factors, we may need to curtail planned development or commercialization activities. In addition, we will need to obtain additional funds to complete development activities for the red blood cell system necessary for potential regulatory approval in Europe. We do not plan on conducting any additional clinical trials of the red blood cell, platelet or plasma systems in the United States unless and until we can obtain sufficient additional funding or, at such time our existing operations provide sufficient cash flow to conduct these trials. Historically, we have received significant awards in funding under cooperative agreements with the DoD for the INTERCEPT Blood System. By March 31, 2012, we had exhausted the remaining availability under the August 2011 DoD grant. Access to federal grants and cooperative agreements is subject to the authorization of funds and approval of our research plans by various organizations within the federal government, including the United States Congress. The general economic environment, coupled with tight federal budgets, has led to a general decline in the amount available for government funding and we do not expect any revenue from government grants and cooperative agreements for the foreseeable future, if at all. 31 Table of Contents We have issued debt containing certain covenants that we may be unable to comply with. Our operations may not provide sufficient cash to meet the repayment obligations of our debt. We currently maintain a credit agreement with Comerica Bank that provides a formula based revolving line of credit of up to $7.0 million. The credit agreement is secured by all our current and future assets, except for intellectual property and 35% of our investment in our subsidiary, Cerus Europe B.V. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain customary and routine covenants, including the requirement to maintain a minimum cash balance of $2.5 million and achieve minimum revenue levels, which are measured monthly based on a six-month trailing basis and must be at least 75% of the pre-established future projected revenues for the trailing six-month period. If we are unable to comply with the covenants in the credit agreement, the lender may call the outstanding advances, which would require us to repay the advances sooner than we have anticipated. Our current credit agreement expires in June 2014. If we are unable to extend or amend the agreement, we will be required to pay-down the outstanding balance at that time. Virtually all of our research and development activities and the significant majority of our general and administrative activities are performed in or managed from a single site that may be subject to lengthy business interruption in the event of a severe earthquake. We also may suffer loss of computerized information and may be unable to make timely filings with regulatory agencies in the event of catastrophic failure of our data storage and backup systems. Virtually all of our research and development activities and the significant portion of our general and administrative activities are performed in or managed from our facilities in Concord, California, which are within an active earthquake fault zone. Should a severe earthquake occur, we might be unable to occupy our facilities or conduct research and development and general and administrative activities in support of our business and products until such time as our facilities could be repaired and made operational. Our property and casualty and business interruption insurance in general does not cover losses caused by earthquakes. While we have taken certain measures to protect our scientific, technological and commercial assets, a lengthy or costly disruption due to an earthquake would have a material adverse effect on us. We have also taken measures to limit damage that may occur from the loss of computerized data due to power outage, system or component failure or corruption of data files. However, we may lose critical computerized data, which may be difficult or impossible to recreate, which may harm our business. We may be unable to make timely filings with regulatory agencies in the event of catastrophic failure of our data storage and backup systems, which may subject us to fines or adverse consequences, up to and including loss of our ability to conduct business. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. Our business is increasingly dependent on complex and interdependent information technology systems, including internet-based systems, databases and programs, to support our business processes as well as internal and external communications. These computer systems are potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and computer viruses which may result in the impairment of production and key business processes or loss of data or information. Additionally, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches—whether by employees or others—which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. Such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, distributors, customers and others. Such disruptions and breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change,” generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change taxable income or taxes may be 32 Table of Contents limited. Our prior and potential future equity offerings and other changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control could in the future result in an ownership change. If a limitation were to apply, utilization of a portion of our domestic net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards could be limited in future periods and a portion of the carryforwards could expire before being available to reduce future income tax liabilities. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or operate our business without infringing intellectual property rights of others. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection on our products and successfully defending our products against third-party challenges. Our technology will be protected from unauthorized use only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents or effectively maintained as trade secrets. As a result, our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain patents; • protect trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that our patents or patents that we license from others will be enforceable and afford protection against competitors. Our patents or patent applications, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our patent rights may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Others may independently develop technologies similar to ours or independently duplicate our technologies. For example, a United States patent issued to a third-party covers methods to remove psoralen compounds from blood products. We have reviewed the patent and believe there exists substantial questions concerning its validity. We cannot be certain, however, that a court would hold the patent to be invalid or not infringed by our platelet or plasma systems, if and when those products are sold in the United States. As a result, in order to commercialize our platelet or plasma systems in the United States, we may be required to obtain a license from the owner of the patent, which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all. Our patents expire at various dates between 2014 and 2027. Recent patent applications will, if granted, result in patents with later expiration dates. In addition, we have a license from Fresenius to United States and foreign patents relating to the INTERCEPT Blood System, which expire at various dates from 2015 to 2024. Due to the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of our potential products, our patents may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization. This would reduce or eliminate any advantage of the patents. We cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. We may need to license the right to use third-party patents and intellectual property to continue development and commercialization of our products. We may not be able to acquire such required licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ patents, or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. Our patents do not cover all of the countries in which we are selling, and planning to sell, our products. We will not be able to prevent potential competitors from using our technology in countries where we do not have patent coverage. We may face litigation requiring us to defend against claims of infringement, assert claims of infringement, enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how or determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. Patent litigation is costly. In addition, we may require interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions relating to our patent applications. Litigation or interference proceedings could be expensive and time consuming, and we could be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights. 33 Table of Contents We may rely, in certain circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and contractors. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach or our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others, disputes also may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. As our international operations grow, we may be subject to adverse fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and foreign currencies. Our international operations are subject to risks typical of an international business, including, among other factors: differing political, economic, and regulatory climates, different tax structures and foreign exchange volatility. We do not currently enter into any hedging contracts to normalize the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations. As a result, our future results could be materially affected by changes in these or other factors. Product sales of the INTERCEPT blood system are typically invoiced to customers in Euros. In addition, we purchase finished INTERCEPT disposable kits for our platelet and plasma systems and incur certain operating expenses in Euros and other foreign currencies. Our exposure to foreign exchange rate volatility is a direct result of our product sales, cash collection and cash payments for expenses to support our international operations. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations are recorded as a component of other income, net on our consolidated statements of operations. Significant fluctuations in the volatility of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar may materially affect our results of operations. In addition, in a period where the U.S. dollar is strengthening/weakening as compared to Euros, our revenues and expenses denominated in Euros are translated into U.S. dollars at a lower/higher value than they would be in an otherwise constant currency exchange rate environment. Currently we do not have a formal hedging program to mitigate the effects of foreign currency volatility. We currently have a limited trading volume, which results in higher price volatility for, and reduced liquidity of, our common stock. Our shares of common stock are currently quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “CERS”. The market for our common stock has been limited due to low trading volume and the small number of brokerage firms acting as market makers. Active trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders. The absence of an active trading market increases price volatility and reduces the liquidity of our common stock. As long as this condition continues, the sale of a significant number of shares of common stock at any particular time could be difficult to achieve at the market prices prevailing immediately before such shares are offered, which may limit our ability to effectively raise money. In addition, due to the limitations of our market and the volatility in the market price of our stock, investors may face difficulties in selling shares at attractive prices when they want to sell. As a result of this lack of trading activity, the quoted price for our common stock is not necessarily a reliable indicator of its fair market value. Provisions of our charter documents, our stockholder rights plan, our compensatory arrangements and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our stockholders. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, unless its application has been waived, provides certain default anti-takeover protections in connection with transactions between the company and an “interested stockholder” of the company. Generally, Section 203 prohibits stockholders who, alone or together with their affiliates and 34 Table of Contents associates, own more than 15% of the subject company from engaging in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder of such subject company without approval of the board or the vote of two-thirds of the shares held by the independent stockholders. Our board of directors has also adopted a stockholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” which would significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. Additionally, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, including without limitation, the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine. In addition, our executive employment agreements, change of control severance benefit plan and equity incentive plans and agreements thereunder provide for certain severance benefits in connection with a change of control of us, including single-trigger equity vesting acceleration benefits with respect to outstanding stock options and single-trigger vesting acceleration benefits with respect to outstanding restricted stock unit awards, which could increase the costs to a third party acquiror and/or deter such third party from acquiring us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 