Risk Factors contained in Item 3D of this annual report. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in “Item 18. Financial Statements” of this annual report. A. OPERATING RESULTS The following discussion and analysis is based on and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements contained in “Item 18. Financial Statements.” Overview We design, develop and sell contactless microprocessor-based smart card systems. Our headquarters and main research and development activities are in Israel. Our sales and marketing efforts are directed from our Israeli headquarters with additional sales support offices located in U.S. subsidiary, OTI America, located in Fort Lee, New Jersey, Europe, South Africa and the Far East. Our packaging, assembly and manufacturing facilities are located in Israel, Germany and Far East. 35 Since our incorporation in 1990, we have focused on the development of our core technologies and our OTI Platform-based products. We currently offer three lines of products, each of which constitutes a complete system, as well as components (such as smart cards, inlays, readers and machines ) that we sell to original equipment manufacturers, OEMs, as well as other cards manufactures and companies for sale or incorporation into their own products. Our three complete system product lines include: — Payments Solutions: we offer financial institutions a cashless system and loyalty program to replace cash, which includes the PayPass system that we are installing for MasterCard, our EasyPark system and our mass transit payment system as well as cards, inlays and machineries for the production of SmartID solutions as well as production line for SIM cards; — Petroleum Systems: OTI’s EasyFuel is a wireless, cashless, cardless, and paperless fuel management and petroleum solution which includes both our gasoline management system, or GMS, and our EasyFuel systems; and — Smart ID Solutions: OTI’s solutions for credentialing, identifying and verifying individuals combine the capability to support biometric identification with the portability of smart cards. We also offer cards, inlays and machineries for the production of SmartID solutions. In 2003 we introduced and began to realize revenues from EasyFuel, our contactless petroleum system, which we expect to account for an increasing proportion of our petroleum system sales. In 1998, we were awarded a contract for the first of our micropayments systems, an electronic parking payment system which we refer to as EasyPark. We began to deploy EasyPark in 2000 and completed deployment of the first system in June 2001. We deployed our first mass transit micropayments system in China during 2000 and in the United States in 2003. In 2002, we began to realize nonrecurring engineering revenues from the PayPass™ micropayments system that we are installing for MasterCard International and we began to recognize product sale revenues from that system in 2004. We began to market components for incorporation into the products of OEMs with our acquisition of InterCard Systemelectronic in June 2000. During 2005, 2006 and 2007, product sales to OEMs accounted for $6.9 million, $7.8 million and $8.7 million, respectively, of our total revenues. We began marketing cards, inlays and machineries following our acquisitions of MCT, e-Pilot and POE . We have reported net losses for each year that we have been in business. Our business tends to be seasonal, with greater sales in the third and the fourth quarters of every year, we do not anticipate having net earnings for either of the first two quarters of 2008 and we also cannot assure you that we will be profitable in either of the last two quarters of 2008, or afterwards. Sources of Revenue We have historically derived a substantial majority of our revenues from the sale of our products, including both complete systems and OEM components. A substantial majority of our revenues has been, and is likely to continue to be, from the sale of complete systems and its components. We anticipate that revenues from sales will continue to represent the substantial majority of our revenues in the future. In addition, we generate revenues from licensing and transaction fees, and also, less significantly, from non-recurring engineering, customer services and technical support. We anticipate that revenues from licensing and transaction fees will make a proportionally greater contribution to our total revenues and that revenues from sales will make a proportionally smaller contribution to our revenues in the future. 36 During the past three years, the revenues that we have derived from sales and licensing and transaction fees have been as follows (dollar amounts in thousands): 2005 2006 2007 Sales $ 32,266 90 % $ 35,171 87 % $ 40,854 94 % transaction fees 3,398 10 % 5,382 13 % 2,631 6 % $ 35,664 100 % $ 40,553 100 % $ 43,485 100 % Sales increased by $2.9 million and $5.7 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively. The increase in 2006 is mainly attributed to increase of sales of our smart ID products and solutions and its components, in 2007 is mainly attributed to an increase in sales of Petroleum products, Payments products and its components, and OEM. Licensing and transaction fees include one-time and periodic payments for manufacturing or distribution rights for our products. Transaction fees are paid by customers based on the volume of transactions processed by systems that contain our products, the decrease in 2007 compare to 2006 is primarily consisted of a decrease in China ID. We expect to generate additional revenues from transaction fees in the future as the installation and usage of systems that contain our products become more widespread, and accordingly anticipate that these fees will make a proportionally greater contribution to our total revenues in the future. We have historically derived revenues from different geographical areas. The following table sets forth our revenues, by dollar amount (in thousands) and as a percentage of revenues in different geographical areas, during the past three years: Africa Europe Far East 2005 $ 3,781 11 % $ 9,266 26 % $ 5,397 15 % 2006 $ 3,200 8 % $ 14,065 35 % $ 11,958 29 % 2007 $ 4,710 11 % $ 17,924 41 % $ 9,024 21 % North, Central and SouthAmerica Israel 2005 $ 14,123 39 % $ 3,097 9 % 2006 $ 8,174 20 % $ 3,156 8 % 2007 $ 7,569 17 % $ 4,258 10 % We anticipate that, over time, the revenues that we derive from the Americas will grow both in absolute amounts and as a percentage of our total revenues. Our revenues derived from outside the U.S., which are primarily received in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, will have a varying impact upon our total revenues, as a result of fluctuations in such currencies’ exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. Cost of revenues and gross margin Our cost of revenues, by revenue source, and gross profit, for each of the past three years were as follows (dollar amounts in thousands): Year ended December 31 2005 2006 2007 Cost of revenues Sales $ 21,629 $ 21,871 $ 25,918 Licensing and transaction fees - - - Total cost of revenues $ 21,629 $ 21,871 $ 25,918 Gross profit $ 14,035 $ 18,682 $ 17,567 Sales. Cost of revenues relating to sales consists primarily of materials, as well as salaries, fees payable to subcontractors and related costs for our technical staff who assemble our products. The increase in 2007 is primarily the result of increased sales which generated corresponding increased costs during the years covered by the table, and dueto increase in costs associated with the revenue mix in the Year Ended December 31, 2007 in compare with the same period in 2006. 37 Licensing and transaction fees. Licensing and transaction fees revenues do not have directly attributable cost of revenues. The only costs incurred to initiate the project represent selling and marketing expenses and are classified as such in the consolidated statement of operations. Operating expenses Our operating expenses and operating loss for each of the past three years were as follows (dollar amounts in thousands): Year ended December 31 2005 2006 2007 Operating expenses Research and development $ 5,405 $ 7,065 $ 12,265 Less - participation by the Office of the Chief Scientist 618 -- -- Research and development, net 4,787 7,065 12,265 Selling and marketing 7,620 7,072 9,670 General and administrative 9,666 11,948 17,593 Amortization of intangible assets 700 821 1,314 Expenses relating to raising of capital, exchange of subsidiary's employees equity interest in equity interest of the Company and new acquisitions in the Far East* 1,768 -- -- Gain from sale of subsidiary (374 ) (122 ) -- Total operating expenses 24,167 26,784 40,842 Operating loss $ (10,132 ) $ (8,102 ) $ (23,275 ) * Consist of internal employee costs from: Research and development $ 78 $ - $ - Selling and marketing 231 - - General and administrative 1,459 - - $ 1,768 $- $ - Research and development. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses of our research and development staff, as well as subcontracting expenses. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. The increase in 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily due to a $1 million expense incurred from the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123(R)”), due to the Company’s decision to cease its participation with the OCS and from increase of expenses related to salaries that resulted from an increase of 18 employees. The increase in 2007 as compared to 2006 was primarily due to $3.6 million increase in expenses related to salaries that resulted from increase of 17 employees, mainly following to the acquisitions of InSeal during May 2006, the IPS division of Vuance (formerly SuperCom) which took place at December 31, 2006 and $862,000 million increase in compensation expenses, in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), and due to $845,000 million increase in expenses related to subcontractors, and rental expenses Our research and development expenses may increase in the future as we continue to develop new products and new applications for our existing products. Selling and marketing. Our selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and substantially all of the expenses of our sales and marketing subsidiaries and offices in the United States, South Africa, the Far East and Europe, as well as expenses related to advertising, professional expenses, participation in exhibitions and tradeshows. The decrease in 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily due to decrease in expenses related to salaries that resulted mainly from a decrease of $1.3 million of expenses related to options granted to employees that was partially off-set by an increase of 8 employees. Due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) the Company incurred in 2006 compensation expense of $115,000.The increase in 2007 as compared to 2006 was primarily due to $1.4 million increase in expenses related to salaries that resulted from increase of employees, mainly following to the acquisitions of InSeal during May 2006 and of the IPS division of Vuance (formerly SuperCom) which took place at December 31, 2006, and due to $678,000 million increase in expenses related to our marketing efforts in new and existing markets. 38 Our selling and marketing expenses may increase in the future as we continue to expand our local sales and marketing subsidiaries, open new offices and in the event that we hire additional personnel. General and administrative. Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses of our executive management, such as management fees and travel expenses, as well as financial and administrative staff. These expenses also include costs of our professional advisors (such as lawyers and accountants), office expenses and insurance and vehicle expenses, which have collectively grown with the scope, magnitude and complexity of our business and provision for doubtful accounts. The increase in 2006 as compared to 2005 is primarily attributed to a $1.2 million expense incurred from the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), to the Chinese subsidiaries which were acquired during the third quarter of 2005, and to an increase in professional services. The increase in 2007 as compared to 2006 is primarily attributed to $2.5 million provision for doubtful accounts for the Year Ended December 31, 2007, $1.2 million increase in compensation expenses, in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), and due to $1 million increase in expenses related to professional and rental expenses General corporate and administrative expenses may increase in the future as we continue to expand our operations. Expenses relating to raising of capital and exchange of subsidiary’s employees equity interest in equity interest of the Company and new acquisitions in the Far East In 2005, the expenses in the amount of $1.8 million resulted from our activity in connection with the acquisitions in the Far East. Financing income, net Financing income consists primarily of interest earned on our investments in U.S. treasury securities and foreign exchange gains. Financing expenses consist primarily of interest payable on bank loans and foreign exchange losses. The increase in 2006 financing income as compared to 2005 was primarily due to new investments in U.S. treasury securities made through funds raised in private placements in the fourth quarter of 2005. Our financing income, net for each of the past three years, has been as follows (in thousands): Year ended December 31 2005 2006 2007 Financing income $ 897 $ 2,459 $ 2,800 Financing expenses (228 ) (747 ) (938 ) Financing income , net $ 669 $ 1,712 $ 1,862 Net loss Our net loss decreased in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to increase in our gross profit partially offset by increase in operating expenses as mention above. The increase in 2007 as compared to 2006 is primarily due to increase in our operating expenses as mention above and decrease in our gross margin primarily due to decrease in revenues from licensing and transaction fees. Our net loss for each of the past three years has been as follows (in thousands): Year ended December 31 2005 2006 2007 Net loss $ (9,113 ) $ (6,604 ) $ (20,643 ) 39 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Accordingly, we are required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that we believe are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and results of operations. To fully understand and evaluate our reported financial results, we believe it is important to understand our revenue recognition policy, our policy with respect to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and our policy with respect to stock compensation. Revenue recognition. We recognize product sale revenues upon delivery, provided there is persuasive evidence of an agreement and the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the buyer, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable and no further obligation exists. In the case of nonrecurring engineering, revenue is recognized on completion of testing and approval of the customization of the product by the customer and provided that no further obligation exists. Technology license revenues are recognized at the time the technology and license is delivered to the customer, collection is probable, the fee is fixed and determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, no significant obligation remains under the sale or licensing agreement and no significant customer acceptance requirements exist after delivery of the technology. We recognize revenues from customer services and technical support as the services are rendered ratably over the period of the related contract. We recognize transaction fees as they are earned based on usage. Our revenue recognition policies are consistently applied for all revenues recognized. Goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired in a purchase business combination. Goodwill is not amortized, but rather is tested for impairment at least annually or between annual tests if certain events or indicators of impairment occur in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value. Fair value was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis. The test was based on the Company’s single reporting unit structure. During the years 2005, 2006 and 2007, no impairment losses were identified. Purchased intangible assets are carried at cost, less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, generally three to seven years. Goodwill and other intangible assets, net, amounted to approximately $27.9 million as of December 31, 2007. If these estimates change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for our goodwill. As of December 31, 2007 no impairment charges were required. Stock option plans. Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for stock based employee and directors compensation by using the intrinsic value method prescribed in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, (“APB 25”) and related interpretations, as permitted by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (“SFAS 123”). Accordingly, compensation cost for stock options was measured as the excess of the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant over the exercise price and was recognized over the scheduled vesting. 40 On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123(R) which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors based on estimated fair values. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified-prospective-transition method. Under the modified-prospective-transition method, compensation cost is recognized on a prospective basis for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123. For share-based payment awards granted after January 1, 2006, the Company recognizes compensation cost based on estimated grant date fair value using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. In accordance with the modified prospective method, the Company’s consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS 123(R). As a result of adopting SFAS 123 (R), the Company’s loss before taxes and minority interests and net loss for the year ended December 31, 2006, are $2,354 larger, and loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2006 is $0.17 larger, than if it had continued to account for share-based compensation under APB 25. Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), the $833 in Additional Paid-In Capital and the offsetting amount in Deferred Stock-Based Compensation, that are both reflected in shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2005, have been reversed as required by SFAS 123 (R). The net effect has no change in total shareholders’ equity. The critical assumptions relate to determining the expected life of the option, considering the outcome of service-related conditions (i.e., vesting requirements and forfeitures), expected volatility of the underlying stock as an estimate of the future price fluctuation for a term commensurate with the expected life of the option, expected dividend yield on the underlying stock, commensurate with the expected life of the option, and the risk-free interest rate commensurate with the expected term of the option. SFAS No. 123 (R) requires that the option pricing model used consider management’s expectations about the life of the option, future dividends, and stock price volatility. Both the volatility and dividend yield components should reflect reasonable expectations commensurate with the expected life of the option. To determine the expected volatility, we generally begin with calculating historical volatility over the most recent period equal to the expected life of the options. The expected dividend yield on the underlying stock for all relevant periods is zero since there is no history of paying dividends. The expected life of an employee stock option award was estimated based on reasonable facts and assumptions on the grant date. These estimates introduce significant judgment into determining the fair value of stock-based compensation awards. During 2007 most of the options were granted with a par value exercise price. Due to the par value nominal amount of NIS 0.1, the fair value of these options was estimated to be equal to the Company’s share price as of the day of grant. Recently Issued Accounting Guidance In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued No. 157, Fair Value Measurement (Statement 157). Statement 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for the measurement of fair value, and enhances disclosures about fair value measurements. The Statement does not require any new fair value measures. The Statement is effective for fair value measures already required or permitted by other standards for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company is required to adopt Statement 157 beginning on January 1, 2008. Statement 157 is required to be applied prospectively, except for certain financial instruments. Any transition adjustment will be recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption. In February 2008, the FASB approved FSP FAS 157-2, which grants proposed a one-year deferral of Statement 157‘s fair-value measurement requirements for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. The Company does not believe that the adoption of the provisions of SFAS No. 157 will materially impact its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In February, 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115, which permits entities to irrevocable choose to measure many financial assets and liabilities at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. If the fair value option is elected, changes in fair value would be recorded in results of operations at each subsequent reporting date. The Statement allows entities to achieve an offset accounting effect for certain changes in fair value of certain related assets and liabilities without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions, and is expected to expand the use of fair value measurement consistent with the Board’s long-term objectives for financial instruments. This Statement is effective as of the beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. The Company does not believe that the adoption of the provisions of SFAS No. 159 will materially impact its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 41 In June 2007, the FASB reached a final consensus on Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 07-3, “Accounting for Advance Payments for Goods or Services to Be Used in Future Research and Development Activities” (“EITF 07-03”). The consensus reached by the FASB requires companies involved in research and development activities to capitalize such non-refundable advance payments for goods and services pursuant to an executory contractual arrangement because the right to receive those services in the future represents a probable future economic benefit. Those advance payments will be capitalized until the goods have been delivered or the related services have been performed. The consensus on EITF 07-03 is effective prospectively for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Earlier application is not permitted. The Company does not believe that the adoption of the provisions of EITF 07-03 will materially impact its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 141R, Business Combinations (Statement 141R) and FASB Statement No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements – an amendment to ARB No. 51 (Statement 160). Statements 141R and 160 require most identifiable assets, liabilities, noncontrolling interests, and goodwill acquired in a business combination to be recorded at “full fair value” and require noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as minority interests) to be reported as a component of equity, which changes the accounting for transactions with noncontrolling interest holders. Both Statements are effective for periods beginning on or after December 15, 2008, and earlier adoption is prohibited. Statement 141R will be applied to business combinations occurring after the effective date. Statement 160 will be applied prospectively to all noncontrolling interests, including any that arose before the effective date. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting Statement 141R and Statement 160 on its results of operations and financial position. B. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our principal sources of liquidity since our inception have been sales of equity securities, borrowings from banks, convertible loans, cash from the exercise of options and grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist. We had cash and cash equivalents of $35.5 million as of December 31, 2007 and $30.0 million as of December 31, 2006. In addition, we had short-term investments of $6.4 million (representing U.S. treasury securities) as of December 31, 2007 and $18.2 million as of December 31, 2006. We believe that our working capital is sufficient to meet our present requirements. Operating activities. For the year ended December 31, 2007 we have used $6.3 million from operating activities primarily due to $20.6 million net loss, from $2.8 million increase in inventories due to purchasing for future and existing orders, $1.0 million minority interest , and $686,000 increase in other receivables and prepaid expenses, partially offset by $6.9 million of stock based compensation issued to employees and others, $3.3 million increase in trade payables,net, $2.6 million decrease in trade receivables, $2.6 million depreciation, $2.0 million increase in other current liabilities, $1.3 million amortization of intangible assets, $358,000 equity in net losses of an affiliated company and $283,000 increase in accrued severance pay, net. For the year ended December 31, 2006 we used $3.5 million of cash in operating activities primarily due to our net loss of $6.6 million, $3.2 million increase in inventories, $2.4 million increase in trade receivables, $2.1 decrease in other current liabilities and due to $625,000 of minority share in loss of subsidiaries, partially offset by $3.8 million stock-based compensation related to options and shares issued to employees and others, $2.6 million increase in trade payables, $1.9 million charge for depreciation of our property and equipment, $1.1 million decrease in other receivables and prepaid expenses, $1.1 million equity in net losses of an affiliated company, $821,000 amortization of intangible assets and $796,000 increase in accrued severance pay, net. Investing and financing activities. For the year ended December 31, 2007, net cash provided by investing activities was $6.6 million, mainly due to a $148 million proceeds from maturity of available-for-sale securities and $837,000 receipt on account of loans and receivables, partially offset by $136.1 million investment in available-for-sale securities and $6.2 million purchase of property and equipment. For the year ended December 31, 2006, net cash used in investing activities was $1.1 million, mainly due to a $23.6 million investment in available-for-sale securities and to $3.1 million investment in equipment purchases, partially offset by $25.4 million proceeds from maturity of available-for-sale securities and $350,000 receipts on account of loans and receivables related to our disposition of a German subsidiary in 2004. 42 For the year ended December 31, 2007, net cash provided by financing activities was $5.1 million, mainly due to $4.8 million increase in short-term bank credit, net and $739,000 proceeds from long-term loans partially offset by $495,000 repayment of long-term bank loans. For the year ended December 31, 2006, net cash provided by financing activities was $4.9 million, mainly due to $3.2 million due to exercise of options and warrants, $1.5 million of proceeds from minority in subsidiary and $978,000 from long-term bank loans, partially offset by $570,000 repayment of long-term bank loans and by $231,000 decrease in short term credit. Market Risk Market risks relating to our operations result primarily from changes in interest rates and currency fluctuations. In order to limit our exposure, we may enter, from time to time, into various derivative transactions. Our objective is to reduce exposure and fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes. It is our policy and practice from time to time to use derivative financial instruments only to limit exposure. Interest Rate Risks We are exposed to market risks resulting from changes in interest rates, relating primarily to our loan obligations to banks. We do not currently use derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2007, we had fixed interest rate loan obligations of $2.9 million. Of this amount, $1.6 million was denominated in Euro, $1.2 million was denominated in USD $96,000 was denominated in Polish Zloty and, $69,000 was denominated in South African Rand. These loans will be repaid during the next five years. The carrying values of the loans are equivalent to or approximate their fair market value as they bear interest at approximate market rates. Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuations Our functional and reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. We generate a significant portion of our revenues and we incur some of our expenses in other currencies. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in countries in which we are active other than the United States will exceed the rate of devaluation of such countries’ currencies in relation to the dollar or that the timing of this devaluation will lag behind inflation in such countries. To date, we have been affected by changes in the rate of inflation or the exchange rates of other countries’ currencies compared to the dollar, and we cannot assure you that we will not be adversely affected in the future. The annual rate of inflation (deflation) in Israel was 3.4% in 2007 (0.1%) in 2006 and 2.4% in 2005. The NIS revalued by approximately 9.0% and 8.2% in 2007 and 2006, respectively, against the U.S. dollar. The functional currency of InterCard Systemelectronic and Inseal SAS is the Euro and of ASEC Spolka Akcyjna is the Polish Zloty and the functional currency of MCT is the Chinese Yuan Renminbi. Significantly all of these subsidiaries’ revenues are earned, and significantly all of their expenses are incurred, in their functional currencies. To the extent that there are fluctuations between the Euro, the Polish Zloty and/or the Chinese Yuan Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, the translation adjustment will be included in our consolidated changes in shareholders’ equity and will not impact the consolidated statement of operations. We cannot assure you that we will not be adversely affected in the future. 43 Corporate Tax Rate On July 25, 2005 the Knesset, the Israeli Parliament, passed the Law for the Amendment of the Income Tax Ordinance (No.147 and Temporary Order) – 2005, or the Amendment. The Amendment provides for a gradual reduction in the company tax rate in the following manner: in 2006 – 31%, in 2007 – 29%, in 2008 – 27%, in 2009 – 26% and from 2010 onward the tax rate will be 25%. Furthermore, as from 2010, upon reduction of the company tax rate to 25%, real capital gains will be subject to tax of 25%. As of December 31, 2007, our net operating loss carry-forwards for Israeli tax purposes amounted to approximately $55.6 million. Under Israeli law, net operating losses can be carried forward indefinitely and offset against certain future taxable income. Since we have incurred tax losses through December 31, 2007, we have not yet utilized the tax benefits for which we are eligible under the “Approved Enterprise” status. $4.5 million of our investment programs in buildings, equipment and production facilities have been granted “Approved Enterprise” status and we are, therefore, eligible for a tax exemption under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959. Subject to compliance with applicable requirements, the portion of our income derived from the “Approved Enterprise” programs is tax-exempt for a period of the earliest of (1) ten years commencing in the first year in which it generates taxable income, (2) 14 years from the date of approval or (3) 12 years from the date of beginning of production. If we do not comply with these requirements, the tax benefits may be cancelled and we may be required to refund the amount of benefits received, in whole or in part, with the addition of linkage differences to the Israeli consumer price index and interest. As of the date of this annual report, we believe that we are in compliance with these conditions. Government of Israel Support Programs Until 2005 we participated in programs offered by the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade (“OCS”) that support research and development activities. We received and obtained grants of $618,000 in 2005 from OCS. Under the terms of these grants, a royalty of 3% to 3.5% of the sales of products must be paid to the OCS, beginning with the commencement of sales of products developed with grant funds and ending when the dollar value of the grant is repaid. In 2006 we decided to cease our participation with the OCS. Royalties payable with respect to grants received under programs approved after January 1, 1999, however, will be subject to interest on the dollar-linked value of the total grants received at an annual rate of LIBOR applicable to dollar deposits. As of December 31, 2007, we have received a total of $4.7 million from the OCS net of royalties paid to it (or accrued for). The terms of Israeli government participation also require that the manufacturing of products developed with government grants be performed in Israel, unless the OCS has granted special approval. If the OCS consents to the manufacture of the products outside Israel, we may be required to pay increased royalties, ranging from 120% to 300% of the amount of the OCS grant, depending on the percentage of foreign manufacture. These restrictions continue to apply even after we have paid the full amount of royalties payable in respect of the grants. Based upon the aggregate grants received to date, we expect that we will continue to pay royalties to the OCS to the extent of our sales of our products and related services for the foreseeable future. Separate OCS consent is required to transfer to third parties technologies developed through projects in which the government participates. These restrictions do not apply to exports from Israel of products developed with these technologies. C. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES, ETC. Discussed above in "Item 5.A. Overview." D. TREND INFORMATION Discussed above in "Item 5.A. Overview." E. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS None. F. TABULAR DISCLOSURE OF CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS As of December 31, 2007, we and our subsidiaries had contractual obligations which are expected to affect our consolidated cash flow in future periods as follows: (in thousands) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 andthereafter Total Operating lease obligations $ 1,027 $ 573 $ 349 $ 325 $ 190 $ 2,464 Long-term debt obligations $ 495 $ 548 $ 453 $ 209 $ 1,221 $ 2,926 Total $ 1,522 $ 1,121 $ 802 $ 534 $ 1,411 $ 5,390 44 We shall also pay royalties to the Office of the Chief Scientist as discussed above in B, Liquidity and Capital Resources. For additional information on our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007, under long-term bank loans and operating leases, see Notes 8 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements. For a description of liens on our assets see Note 9C to our consolidated financial statements. ITEM 6. DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES A. DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT Management The following table sets forth certain information concerning our current directors and executive officers, including officers of certain of our subsidiaries: Name Age Position Oded Bashan (1) 61 Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Director Ronnie Gilboa 51 Vice President - Projects and Director Guy Shafran 35 Chief Financial Officer, Chairman and President of Millennium Cards Technology Ltd. Moshe Aduk 51 Vice President - Gasoline Management System Nehemya Itay 58 Vice President - Hardware Engineering Ohad Bashan 37 President, Chief Marketing Officer; Chief Executive Officer, OTI America, Inc., and Director Eliezr Manor (1)(2)(3) 60 Director Ora Setter (1)(2)(3) 57 Director Eli Akavia (1)(2) 60 Director Raanan Ellran (1)(2)(3) 59 Director Shlomo Tussia-Cohen (1)(2)(3) 36 Director (1) Compensation committee member (2) Audit committee member (3) External director Oded Bashan co-founded the Company in 1990 and has continued to serve as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman since that time. Prior to founding us, he served as the president of Electo-Galil, an Israeli manufacturer of radio frequency identification cards, from 1984 to 1990. Mr. Bashan is Chairman of OTI America, Inc., OTI Africa Ltd., SoftChip Technologies (3000) Ltd., Easy Park Ltd. and Easy Park Israel Ltd. and a director of ASEC, Millennium Card’s Technology Ltd., and Z.H.R. Industrial Park Company Ltd. In 1997, Mr. Bashan was awarded the Leading Businessman Award in Management, Business and Economics by the Israeli Institute of Public Opinion. He is currently a member of the trustee committee of the Tel-Chai College and a member of the consulting committee for the Executive MBA program at Bar Ilan University. Mr. Bashan holds both a B.Sc and an M.Sc in economics and business management from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Ronnie Gilboa co-founded the Company in 1990 and has continued to serve as a director since that time. From 1990 to the end of 2001 he served as Vice President R&D and since that date has served as our Vice President-Projects. He serves on the board of directors of OTI America, Inc., ASEC S.A, OTI Africa Ltd., Easy Park Ltd., Easy Park Israel Ltd., Softchip Technologies (3000) Ltd and Origin GPS. Prior to founding us, Mr. Gilboa was the manager of research and development at Electo-Galil, an Israeli manufacturer of radio frequency-based identification cards, from 1984 to 1990. Mr. Gilboa holds a B.Sc. in electrical engineering from The Technion (Israeli Institute of Technology). 45 Guy Shafran serves as our Chief Financial Officer, having served in that position since June 2000, and has served as a director of Easy Park Ltd. since June 2000 and as a director of Easy Park (Israel) Ltd. since March 2002. Since 2005 Mr. Shafran also serves as the President and Chairman of Millennium Card’s Technology Ltd. Mr. Shafran is a director in Easy Park Ltd., and Millennium Card’s Technology Ltd. Prior to joining us, Mr. Shafran was chief financial officer at the Israel Cold Storage and Supply Company Ltd., an Israeli public company engaged in the distribution of soft drinks and cold storage, from June 1996 to March 2000. From July 1995 to February 1996, Mr. Shafran was assistant to the chairman of the Baran Group Ltd., an Israeli engineering company. Mr. Shafran holds a B.A. in economics with a specialization in business administration from Ben Gurion University, Beer Sheba, and a MEI Graduate Degree in Management specializing in International Management and Entrepreneurship from Swinburne University of Technology. Moshe Aduk serves as our Vice President–Gasoline Management System, having served in that position since July 1995. From 1990 to July 1995, he was employed by us as a research and development engineer. He served as a director from 1995 to July 1999. Prior to joining us, Mr. Aduk was a hardware and software development engineer at Electo-Galil, an Israeli manufacturer of radio frequency-based identification cards, from 1985 to 1990. From 1984 to 1985, he was employed as a technical support engineer at Motorola Israel. Mr. Aduk holds a B.Sc. in electrical engineering from The Technion (Israeli Institute of Technology). Nehemya Itay serves as our Vice President–Hardware Engineering, having served in that position since July 1995. From 1990 to July 1995, he was employed by us as a research and development engineer. He served as a director from 1991 to July 1999. Mr. Itay is a member of the Joint Task Committee of the International Standards Organisation on standards for contactless smart cards. Prior to joining us, Mr. Itay was a hardware development engineer at Electo-Galil, an Israeli manufacturer of radio frequency-based identification cards, from 1986 to 1990. From 1982 to 1985, he was an hardware electronic engineer at Elscint, an Israeli technology company. Mr. Itay holds a B.Sc. in electrical engineering from The Technion (Israeli Institute of Technology) and an M.A. in electronics from Drexel University, Philadelphia. Ohad Bashan has served as President and Chief Marketing Officer and prior to that as our Head of Global Marketing and Strategy Development since June 2000 and was appointed as the President of the Company commencing in August 2007, pursuant to which he relocated from the U.S. to the Company’s headquarters in Israel and stepped down from his office as the President of OTI America, however, remained his position as Chief Executive Officer and a director of OTI America, Inc., which he holds since 1998, and as a director of our board, and Millennium Card’s Technology Ltd. since 2005. From 1996 to August 1998, he was our business development manager. Mr. Bashan holds a B.A. in business from the College of Business Management, Tel Aviv, with specializations in marketing and finance, and an M.B.A. from Pepperdine University, California. Ohad Bashan is the son of Oded Bashan. Eliezer Manor serves as a director, having served in that position since July 2003. He serves as a managing partner and co-founder of Global Catalyst Partners (GCP) VC Fund, a managing partner and co-founder of Global Catalyst Partners II VC Fund, as a director of Trans Balkan Fund (a private equity fund active in Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia), a director on several portfolio companies of GCP, a member of the Executive Steering Committee of China VC Research Institute and as a lecturer and consultant in Israel and abroad on Hi-Tech and Venture Capital. Mr. Manor holds a B.Sc. Physics from the Tel Aviv University and a M.Sc. Applied Physics from the Weizmann Institute of Science, Israel. Ora Setter (PhD) serves as a director, having served in that position since August 2006. Until recently the CEO and Academic Director of Lahav – Executive Education Center in Tel Aviv University. Lecturer at the Recanati Business School and at the department of Labor Studies, Tel Aviv University, and in other academic institutions. Dr. Setter is a consultant to many leading companies in Israel, focusing on Organizational Development and business, and specializing on Knowledge Management and implementation of KM systems, and in building and organizing training programs for organizations. She is also a well known lecturer and writer. In the past Dr. Setter was the entrepreneur and Managing Director of Book A la Carte – as start up company dealing with publishing books through the Internet. Dr Setter’s areas of teaching and research include Psychological Contracts in organizations, Leadership, Organizational Diagnosis & Development, Real and Virtual Team Building, Organizational Politics and Power and Career Dynamics. Dr. Setter serves in the board of several organizations – business companies and NGO’s. She is the organizing force and leader of the “Women promoting women” network in Israel, including most of the women leaders in business, academia, public sector and NGO’s. Recently Dr. Setter is completing her second Masters Degree in South Asian Studies in Tel Aviv University, and is involved with several ventures as a partner and business consultant. 46 Eli Akavia, serves as a director, having served in that position since December 2003. Mr. Akavia is an independent consultant. Mr. Akavia worked for Luboshitz Kasierer, an Israeli auditing firm (formerly a member firm of Arthur Andersen and currently merged with Ernst & Young, Israel) for 30 years, first as an employee and later as a senior partner. Mr. Akavia’s roles at Luboshitz Kasierer included: Head of Audit Department, Head of Hi Tech Division and Partner in charge of the Firm Professional Standards Group. He specialized in hi-tech companies and accumulated invaluable experience in US GAAP and SEC rules. Mr. Akavia has participated in a large number of companies’ initial public offerings in the United States. Shlomo Toussia-Cohen serves as a director, having served in that position since June 2005. From 2002 to 2005 Mr. Toussia-Cohen worked as senior assistant to Director General of the Israeli Broadcasting Authority – the Israeli Public TV and Radio. Until recently he worked as chief executive officer and member of the investment committee in the Education Fund for Journalists (1977) Ltd. Holding a Master degree in Law (L.L.M.) with specialization in private law from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and a bachelor degree in Business (B.A.) with specialization in finance from the Interdisciplinary Center of Herzelia, Mr. Toussia-Cohen works as a Lawyer and is a member of both the Israeli Bar and the of New York State bar. Raanan Ellran served as a director between 1999- 2005, resuming the position in July 2007. In addition, he currently serves on the board of directors at AAI Ltd., an Israeli internet software designer and at Rafael Advanced Defense Systems Ltd (between 2002-2005, resuming the position in 2006) on the board of directors, as Chairman of the Finance Committee, and as Chairman of the Investment Committee. Previous positions as board member include the First International Bank, Dikla Mutual Funds Management Company, F.I.B.I. Holding Company Ltd. (until October 2006), and First International Bank of Israel, Provident and Pension funds (between 1993-1998). Between 1997- 2002 he served as the General Manager of Assuta Medical Centers, between 1995 to 1997, he served as the General Manager of Ratfon Import Ltd., and prior to that he was the General Manager of ACE Hardware (Israel) Ltd. (1994-1995). B. COMPENSATION Executive Compensation The aggregate compensation paid by us and our subsidiaries to our executive directors and executive officers listed above under “Management,” in the year ended December 31, 2007 was $1,530,000. This amount includes approximately $280,000 set aside or accrued to provide pension, severance, retirement or similar benefits or expenses, but does not include business travel, relocation, professional and business association dues and expenses reimbursed to officers, and other benefits commonly reimbursed or paid by companies in Israel. Non-executive directors are reimbursed for their expenses for each board meeting attended and in addition receive compensation for their service on the board. Our executive directors do not receive compensation for their service on the board of directors or any committee of the board of directors. The aggregate amount paid by us and our subsidiaries to our non-executive directors listed above under “Management,” in the year ended December 31, 2007 was $70,000. See “Item 6. E. Share Ownership” for information on beneficial ownership of our shares by our directors and executive officers. We have no outstanding loans to any of our directors or executive officers. Employment Agreements We maintain written employment and related agreements with all of our office holders. These agreements provide for monthly salaries and contributions by us to executive insurance and vocational studies funds. The employment agreements of certain of our office holders further provide that we may give the employee an annual bonus in accordance with targets to be determined by the compensation committee by December 31 of each calendar year in respect of the following year. In determining the amount of the bonus, the compensation committee must relate it to our revenues or profits, as applicable to the employee. We approved bonus plan principles for our senior management on a shareholders’ general meeting held on January 31, 2003. If justifiable in light of our quarterly financial results, we may make advances on bonus payments pursuant to a resolution of our board of directors. All of our office holders’ employment and related agreements contain provisions regarding noncompetition, confidentiality of information and assignment of inventions. The enforceability of covenants not to compete in Israel is unclear. 47 Agreement with Oded Bashan. The employment agreement of Oded Bashan, dated July 1, 2004, as was amended on our shareholders meetings dated June 3, 2005 and August 24, 2006 provides for a five-year term ending on June 30, 2009. Mr. Bashan may terminate his employment, and we may terminate his employment for reasonable and justifiable cause, in either case on six months’ notice. In the event of termination, Mr. Bashan is entitled to receive severance pay equal to twice the rate of one month’s current salary multiplied by the number of years of employment. In the event we terminate his employment prior to June 30, 2009, unless the termination occurred as a result of circumstances depriving him of the right to severance pay at law or as a result of a breach of fiduciary duty or a material breach of confidentiality or noncompetition undertakings, we are required to continue paying Mr. Bashan a monthly salary, including benefits but excluding bonuses, until June 30, 2009, and in any event, for a period that shall not be less than six months following the notice period described above. In addition to the salary, contributions and bonus described above, Mr. Bashan is entitled under his contract of employment to an additional bonus of $15,000 for every one percent increase in our average share price quoted for the last two months of any year over the average share price quoted for the last two months of the preceding year. Agreement with Ronnie Gilboa. The employment agreement of Ronnie Gilboa, dated July 1, 1999, provides for a five-year term ended on June 30, 2004, and was extended automatically for a non-determined period. Mr. Gilboa may terminate his employment, and we may terminate his employment for reasonable and justifiable cause, in either case on six months’ notice. In the event of termination, Mr. Gilboa is entitled to receive severance pay equal to twice the statutory rate of one month’s current salary multiplied by the number of years of employment. On July 2007, Mr. Gilboa’s employment agreement was amended to include a commission of one (1%) percent from the net revenues and five (5%) percent from the net royalty payments and net NRE payments (i.e., after deduction of applicable tax) from projects resulting from his direct contribution. Agreement with Guy Shafran. The employment agreement of Guy Shafran, dated January 1, 2006, provides for a three-year term ended on December 31, 2009, with an option for additional two years and is automatically extended unless terminated as described below. In the event of termination, Mr. Shafran is entitled to receive severance pay equal to twice the rate of one month’s current salary multiplied by the number of years of employment in OTI or one of its subsidiaries. Mr. Shafran is expected to work in Hong-Kong for three years with option for an additional two years and in the event that the employment abroad or in connection to it will be terminated before such period, Mr. Shafran will be paid in full and will be entitled to all terms as if such a termination did not exist. Mr. Shafran may terminate his employment on six months notice, and we may terminate his employment for reasonable or justifiable cause on one year notice. In the event of termination of employment, unless the termination occurred as a result of circumstances depriving Mr. Shafran of the right to severance pay at law or as a result of a breach of fiduciary duty or a material breach of his confidentiality or noncompetition undertakings, Mr. Shafran shall be entitled to additional six months severance payments with full terms and benefits. Agreements with Moshe Aduk and Nehemya Itay. The employment agreements of Moshe Aduk and Nehemya Itay, each dated July 1, 1999, provide for a five-year term ending on June 30, 2004, and were extended automatically for a non-determined period. These individuals may terminate their employment, and we may terminate their employment for reasonable and justifiable cause, in either case on six months’ notice. In the event of termination, these individuals are entitled to receive severance pay equal to twice the rate of one month’s current salary multiplied by the number of years of employment. In the event we terminate the employment of either Mr. Aduk or Mr. Itay, unless the termination occurred as a result of circumstances depriving them of the right to severance pay at law or as a result of a breach of fiduciary duty or a material breach of his confidentiality or noncompetition undertakings, we are required to continue paying each of them a monthly salary for three months following the notice period described above. Agreement with Ohad Bashan. The employment agreement of Ohad Bashan with OTI America, Inc., dated October 6, 2005, was approved by OTI America, OTI and our General Meeting of shareholders on November 12, 2005. On June 2007 the Company assumed his employment agreement and he was appointed as the President of the Company commencing in August 2007, pursuant to which he relocated from the U.S. to the Company’s headquarters in Israel and stepped down from his office as the President of OTI America, however, remained his position as Chief Executive Officer and a director of OTI America, Inc. Mr. Bashan may terminate his employment on six months notice and we may terminate his employment on six months notice. In the event we terminate his employment, Mr. Bashan shall be entitled to six months severance payments with full terms and benefits, and shall be entitled to severance payment in an amount equal to two monthly salaries for each year Mr. Bashan was employed with the Company or OTI America, in addition to all benefits and salary Mr. Bashan is entitled to during the six month period. In addition to his monthly salary, Mr. Bashan shall be entitled to receive a special annual bonus of 0.5% of the annual sales in the Americas markets. The bonus will be paid during the month of April of the following year of the actual sales, as recognized in OTI’s financial statements. In addition, OTI America has the right to assign Mr. Bashan’s employment agreement to us, and require Mr. Bashan to relocate to Israel. 48 C. BOARD PRACTICES Election of Directors; Appointment of Officers Our current board of directors consists of seven directors. Under our articles of association, our board of directors may not consist at any time of more than nine members. A majority of these directors must be non-executive directors, who are directors that are neither office holders nor our employees. Directors are appointed, removed or replaced, by a majority vote of our shareholders present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of shareholders. Once elected at a shareholders’ meeting, our directors, except our external directors, hold office until the first general meeting of shareholders held at least thirty six months after their election, except for Mr. Oded Bashan and Mr. Ronnie Gilboa who may not be replaced or removed unless by an affirmative vote of 75% of the Company’s shareholders entitled to vote and voting in person or by proxy at a general meeting of shareholders. Incumbent directors may be reelected at that meeting. Unless contrary to the law, a director may be elected for consecutive terms. Under the new Israeli Companies Law, which took effect on February 1, 2000 (the “Companies Law”), the chief executive officer of a public company may not serve as a chairman of the board of directors unless authorized by a general meeting of the shareholders and then only for a period of time that does not exceed three years. On August 24, 2006 our shareholders authorized our CEO, Oded Bashan, to act as our chairman for an additional three-year period, after such date, we plan to recommend to our shareholders to authorize Mr. Bashan to act as our CEO for an additional 3-year period. Our board of directors appoints our chief executive officer. Each of our executive officers serves at the discretion of the board of directors, subject to the terms of any employment agreement, and holds office until his or her successor is elected or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Except for Ohad Bashan, our President and Chief Marketing Officer, and Chief Executive Officer of OTI America, who is the son of Oded Bashan, our co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, none of our directors or executive officers has any family relationship with any other director or executive officer. External Directors The Israeli Companies Law requires Israeli companies with shares that have been offered to the public in or outside of Israel to appoint at least two external directors. No person may be appointed as an external director of a company if the person, or the person’s relative, partner, employer or any entity under the person’s control, has, or had within the two years preceding the person’s appointment as an external director, any affiliation with the company or with any entity controlling, controlled by or under common control with the company. The term “affiliation” includes control, an employment relationship, a business or professional relationship maintained on a regular basis, or service as an office holder, excluding service as a director appointed to serve as an external director in a company that intends to make an initial offering of its shares to the public. The term “office holder” is defined as a director, general manager, chief business manager, deputy general manager, vice general manager, executive vice president, vice president, other manager directly subordinate to the general manager or any other person assuming the responsibilities of any of the foregoing positions, without regard to such person’s title. Each person listed in the table above is an office holder. The external directors were not office holders until elected. 49 In addition, no person may serve as an external director if that person’s other positions or business activities create, or may create, a conflict of interest with the person’s service as an external director or may otherwise interfere with the person’s ability to serve as an external director. If, at the time an external director is appointed, all current members of the board of directors are of the same gender, then that external director must be of the other gender. Regulations promulgated under the Companies Law provide that the requirement of Israeli residency does not apply to the external directors of companies whose shares are listed for trading outside of Israel. External directors are elected by a majority vote at a shareholders’ meeting at which either the majority of shares voted at the meeting, including at least one-third of the shares held by non-controlling shareholders voted at the meeting, vote in favor of the election of the external director, or the total number of shares held by non-controlling shareholders voted against the election of the external director does not exceed one percent of the aggregate voting rights in the company. The initial term of an external director is three years and under new legislation that apply to Israeli companies whose shares that have been offered to the public outside of Israel or traded on a stock exchange outside of Israel, may be extended for consecutive additional three year periods (unlike other public companies, in which only one additional three year period is allowed). External directors may only be removed by the same percentage of shareholders as is required for their election, or by a court, and then only if the external directors cease to meet the statutory qualifications for their appointment or if they violate their duty of loyalty to the company. If an external directorship becomes vacant, our board of directors is required under the Companies Law to call a shareholders’ meeting immediately to appoint a new external director. A company may not appoint an external director as an office holder and may not employ or receive services from an external director, directly or indirectly, including through a corporation controlled by that person, for two years following the termination of his or her service as an external director of that company. Each committee of our board of directors must include at least one external director and the audit committee must include all of the external directors. An external director is entitled to compensation as provided in regulations adopted under the Companies Law and is otherwise prohibited from receiving any other compensation, directly or indirectly, in connection with services provided as an external director. In addition, the audit committee of our board of directors must include at least three independent directors within the meaning of the NASDAQ Global Market listing requirements. Our directors Shlomo Toussia-Cohen, Eliezer Manor and Ora Setter, qualify as external directors under the Companies Law and independent directors under the NASDAQ Global Market listing requirements. In addition, our directors Eli Akavia, CPA and Raanan Ellran are qualified as an independent director under the NASDAQ Global Market listing requirements. Alternate Directors Under our articles of association, each of our directors, other than our external directors, may appoint, by written notice to us, any person to serve as an alternate director. Under the Companies Law, a current director cannot be appointed as an alternate director nor can a currently-serving alternate director be appointed as an alternate director. An alternate director has all the rights and duties of the director appointing him, unless the appointment of the alternate provides otherwise, and the right to remuneration. The alternate director may not act at any meeting at which the appointing director is present. Unless the time period or scope of the appointment is limited by the appointing director, the appointment is effective for all purposes, but expires upon the expiration of the appointing director’s term. Currently, none of our directors has appointed any alternate directors. Directors’ Service Contracts Except directors who are also officers of the Company, none of our directors have any services contracts either with us, or with any of our subsidiaries, which provide for benefits upon termination of employment or service. Exculpation, Indemnification and Insurance of Office Holders Under the Companies Law, an Israeli company may only exculpate an office holder in advance, in whole or in part, for breach of duty of care and only if a provision authorizing such exculpation is included in its articles of association. Our articles of association include such a provision, but do not reflect the amendments to the Israeli Companies Law in this respect. A company may not exculpate an office holder in advance from his liability towards the company, which is caused by a breach of duty of care in case of distribution (as defined in the Companies Law). A company may not exculpate an office holder for breach of duty of loyalty. However, the company may approve an act performed in breach of the duty of loyalty of an office holder provided that the office holder acted in good faith, the act or its approval does not harm the company, and the office holder discloses the nature of his or her personal interest in the act and all material facts and documents a reasonable time before discussion of the approval. 50 A company may indemnify an office holder in respect of certain liabilities either in advance of an event or following an event provided a provision authorizing such indemnification is inserted in its articles of association. Advance indemnification of an office holder must be limited to the following: — a financial liability imposed on him in favor of another person pursuant to a judgment, settlement or arbitrator’s award approved by court provided that the indemnification shall be limited to events which are determined by the board of directors, are foreseeable in light of the company’s activities at the time when the obligation for indemnification is granted, and to amounts and standards which are determined by the board of directors as reasonable in such event, and provided that the obligation for indemnification will specify the said events and amounts or standards; — reasonable litigation expenses, including attorneys’ fees, incurred by the office holder or imposed by a court in proceedings instituted against him by the company, on its behalf or by a third party, in connection with criminal proceedings in which the officer holder was acquitted or as a result of a conviction for a crime that does not require proof of criminal intent; and — reasonable litigation expenses, including attorneys’ fees, incurred by the office holder due to investigation or proceedings instituted against the office holder by an authority authorized to conduct such investigation or proceedings and ended without filing an indictment against him and without imposing monetary liability as an alternative to criminal proceedings or ended without filing an indictment against him but in imposing monetary liability as an alternative to criminal proceedings for a crime that does not require proof of criminal intent. A company may insure an office holder against the following liabilities incurred for acts performed as an office holder: — a breach of duty of loyalty to the company, to the extent that the office holder acted in good faith and had a reasonable basis to believe that the act would not prejudice the company; — a breach of duty of care to the company or to a third party; and — a financial liability imposed on the office holder in favor of a third party. An Israeli company may not indemnify or insure an office holder against any of the following: — a breach of duty of loyalty, except to the extent that the office holder acted in good faith and had a reasonable basis to believe that the act would not prejudice the company; — a breach of duty of care committed intentionally or recklessly except that such recklessness is made solely negligently; — an act or omission committed with intent to derive illegal personal benefit; or — a fine levied against the office holder. Under the Companies Law, indemnification and insurance of office holders must be approved by our audit committee and our board of directors and, in specified circumstances, by our shareholders. Our articles of association allow us to indemnify and insure our office holders to the fullest extent permitted by the Companies Law. Our office holders are currently covered by a directors and officers’ liability insurance policy with an aggregate claim limit of $5 million. As of the date of this annual report, no claims for directors and officers’ liability insurance have been filed under this policy. Our U.S. subsidiary has also entered into indemnification agreements with certain of its key employees. These agreements provide, independent of the indemnification these individuals are entitled to by law and under the provisions of the subsidiary’s charter, indemnification for certain acts while employed by the subsidiary. These indemnification agreements contain exclusions, such as limiting indemnification that would be unlawful or that is covered by other liability insurance. Moreover, employees are not indemnified against liability to the extent that the employee gained a personal profit to which he or she is not legally entitled, including proceeds obtained from the illegal trading of our equity securities. The performance of these agreements is guaranteed by us as parent of the U.S. subsidiary, to the extent permitted by Israeli law. 51 Compensation Committee Our board of directors established our compensation committee in July 1999. The duties of the compensation committee are to review the terms of employment of our senior management, to review and recommend to our board of directors the issuance and the allocation of options under our share option plans and to perform any other task delegated by our board of directors. The current members of our compensation committee are Oded Bashan, Eliezer Manor, Shlomo Toussia-Cohen, Ora Setter, Raanan Ellran and Eli Akavia. Steering Committee Our board of directors established our Steering Committee in November 2004. The duties of the Steering Committee are to review the deployment of our company towards the implementation of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The current members of our Steering Committee are our CFO, Controller, General Counsel and in addition Oded Bashan and Eli Akavia. Audit Committee Our board of directors established our audit committee in July 1999. The Companies Law requires public companies to appoint an audit committee consisting of at least three directors, including all the external directors. The audit committee’s responsibilities are governed by a written charter. The responsibilities of the audit committee include appointing our independent registered public accounting firm (subject to the shareholders approval under the Companies Law) and identifying irregularities in the management of our business in consultation with our independent accountants and the internal auditor and suggesting appropriate responses. The audit committee’s responsibilities also include approving related party transactions as required by the Companies Law. Neither the chairman of the board of directors, nor any director employed by or otherwise providing services on a regular basis to us, a controlling shareholder, or relative of a controlling shareholder may be a member of the audit committee. The audit committee may not approve an action or a transaction with a controlling shareholder, or with an office holder, unless at least two external directors are serving on the audit committee at the time of the approval, one of whom is present at the meeting at which the approval is granted. In addition, pursuant to the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, we are required to maintain an audit committee including at least three independent directors. In accordance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our Audit Committee is required to pre-approve all audit and permitted non-audit services provided by our external auditors. The current members of our audit committee are Shlomo Toussia-Cohen, Ora Setter, Eliezer Manor, Raanan Ellran and Eli Akavia, all of which are “independent directors.” Eli Akavia is the Audit Committee’s Chairman, and our board has determined that he is an “Audit Committee Financial Expert.” Internal Auditor Under the Companies Law, the board of directors must appoint an internal auditor that is recommended by the audit committee. The role of the internal auditor is to examine, among other things, whether the company’s actions comply with the law and orderly business procedure. Under the Companies Law, the internal auditor may not be an office holder or an interested party, as defined below, or a relative of an office holder or an interested party, and he or she may not be the company’s independent accountant or the independent accountant’s representative. The Companies Law defines an “interested party” as a holder of 5% or more of the issued shares or voting rights of a company, a person or entity who has the right to designate at least one director or the general manager of the company, and a person who serves as a director or general manager. During 2007, our audit committee recommended and our board of directors appointed Rosenblum Holzman & Co., as our internal auditors. Fiduciary Duties; Approval of Certain Transactions The Companies Law codifies the fiduciary duties that office holders owe to a company. An office holder’s fiduciary duties consist of a duty of care and a duty of loyalty. The duty of care requires an office holder to act with the degree of care with which a reasonable office holder in the same position would act under the same circumstances. The duty of care includes using reasonable means to obtain information as to the advisability of a given action submitted for his or her approval or performed by virtue of his or her position, as well as all other information pertaining to such actions. 52 The duty of loyalty requires an office holder to act in good faith and for the benefit of the company, and includes avoiding any conflict of interest between the office holder’s other positions or personal affairs and the performance of his or her position in the company, avoiding any competition with the company, avoiding exploiting any business opportunity of the company in order to receive a personal benefit for himself or herself or others, and revealing to the company any information or documents relating to the company’s affairs which come into the office holder’s possession as a result of his or her position as an office holder. The Companies Law further requires that an office holder disclose to the company any personal interest that he or she may have and all related material information known to him or her in connection with any existing or proposed transaction by the company. The disclosure must be made promptly and in no event later than the board of directors meeting at which the transaction is first discussed. In addition, if the transaction is an extraordinary transaction, as defined below, the office holder must also disclose any personal interest held by the office holder’s spouse, siblings, parents, grandparents, descendants, spouse’s descendants and the spouses of any of the foregoing and by any corporation in which the office holder is a 5% or greater shareholder, director or general manager or in which he or she has the right to appoint the general manager or at least one director. The Companies Law defines an “extraordinary transaction” as a transaction that is not in the ordinary course of business, that is not on market terms, or that is likely to have a material impact on a company’s profitability, assets or liabilities. In the case of a transaction between the company and an office holder, or a third party in which an office holder has a personal interest, but that is not an extraordinary transaction and is not adverse to the company’s interest, once the office holder complies with the above disclosure requirements only board approval is required unless the articles of association of the company provide otherwise. In the case of an extraordinary transaction between the company and an office holder, or a third party in which an office holder has a personal interest, in addition to any approval required by the articles of association, the transaction must be approved first by the audit committee, then by the board of directors and, in certain cases, by the shareholders. A director who has a personal interest in a matter that is considered at a meeting of the board of directors or the audit committee may in general not be present at this meeting or vote on this matter. If a majority of the directors have a personal interest in an extraordinary transaction, these directors are permitted to be present and vote on the transaction, but shareholder approval is also required. Under NASDAQ Rule 4350(h), the Company should conduct an appropriate review of all related party transactions for potential conflict of interest situations on an ongoing basis and all such transactions should be approved by the company’s audit committee or another independent body of the Board of Directors. Under the Companies Law, all arrangements as to compensation of office holders who are not directors require approval by the board of directors, and undertakings to indemnify or insure an office holder who is not a director require both board and audit committee approval. In general, arrangements regarding the compensation, indemnification and insurance of directors require audit committee and shareholder approval in addition to board approval. Under NASDAQ Rule 4350(c)(3)(A), compensation of the Chief Executive Officer must be determined, or recommended to the Board for determination, either by: (i) a majority of the independent directors, or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. The Chief Executive Officer may not be present during voting or deliberations. Under NASDAQ Rule 4350(c)(3)(B) compensation of all executive officers, except the Chief Executive Officer, must be determined, or recommended to the Board for determination, either by (i) a majority of the independent directors, or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. The Companies Law applies the same disclosure requirements to a controlling party of a public company that it applies, as described above, to an office holder. For these purposes a “controlling party” is any person possessing the ability to direct the activities of the company, including a shareholder which holds 25% or more of the voting rights of the company if no other shareholder owns more than 50% of the voting rights in the company, but excluding a person whose power is derived solely from his or her position on the board of directors or from another position with the company. Two or more shareholders with a personal interest in the approval of the same transaction are deemed to be joint shareholders. Extraordinary transactions with a controlling party or in which a controlling party has a personal interest, and the engagement and terms of compensation of a controlling party or his family members, require the approval of the audit committee, the board of directors and the shareholders. Shareholder approval must be by a majority of shares voted at the meeting, including at least one-third of the shares of the disinterested shareholders who are present, in person or by proxy, at the meeting, or, alternatively, the total shareholdings of the disinterested shareholders who vote against the transaction must not represent more than 1% of the aggregate voting rights in the company. 53 Under the Companies Law, a shareholder has a duty to refrain from abusing his or her power in the company and to act in good faith in exercising its rights and performing its obligations to the company and other shareholders, including, among other things, voting at a general meeting of shareholders on the following matters: — an amendment to the articles of association; — an increase in the company's authorized share capital; — a merger; and — approval of a related-party transaction requiring shareholder approval. In addition, any controlling shareholder, any shareholder who knows that its vote can determine the outcome of a shareholder vote and any shareholder who, under a company’s articles of association, can appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder, is under a duty to act with fairness towards the company. The Companies Law does not describe the substance of this duty. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation Other than Oded Bashan, who serves as a member of our compensation committee, none of the members of our compensation committee or audit committee is currently, or has ever been at any time since our formation, an officer or employee of our company. All compensation arrangements of our executive officers are determined by a majority of our independent directors in accordance with NASDAQ marketrules. D. EMPLOYEES The breakdown of the number of our employees, including employees in our subsidiaries, by department, is as follows: Number of employees as of December 31 Department 2005 2006 2007 Sales and marketing 31 39 41 Research and development 86 103 120 Manufacturing and operations 361 301 373 Customer support 21 20 22 Management and administration 127 125 126 Total 625 588 682 The increase in the number of our employees in 2007 compared to 2006 was mainly in manufacturing and operation in the Far East in addition research and development increased due to the acquisitions of the IPS division of Vuance (formerly SuperCom) which took place on December 31, 2006. Of our employees, on December 31, 2007, 133 were based in Israel, 12 in the United States, 114 in Europe, 33 in South Africa and 390 in the Far East. Under applicable law and by order of the Israeli Ministry of Labor and Welfare, we and our Israeli employees are subject to certain provisions of the collective bargaining agreements between the Histadrut, the General Federation of Labor in Israel and the Coordination Bureau of Economic Organizations, including the Industrialists Association. These provisions principally concern cost of living increases, length of the working day, minimum daily wages for professional employees, contributions to pension funds, insurance for work-related accidents, procedures for dismissing employees, determination of severance pay, annual and other vacation, sick pay and other conditions of employment. We provide our employees with benefits and working conditions above the required minimum and which we believe are competitive with benefits and working conditions provided by similar companies in Israel. Our employees are not represented by a labor union. We have written employment agreements with substantially all of our employees. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense and it may be difficult to attract or maintain qualified personnel to our offices. We dedicate significant resources to employee retention and have never experienced work stoppages and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. 54 E. SHARE OWNERSHIP The following table sets forth certain information as of March 31, 2008 regarding the beneficial ownership of our ordinary shares by each of our directors and executive officers: Shares beneficially owned Name of beneficial owner Number Percent Oded Bashan (1) 3,903,942 19.63 % Ronnie Gilboa (2) 192,089 *** Guy Shafran (3) 69,003 *** Moshe Aduk (4) 181,163 *** Nehemya Itay (5) 171,689 *** Ohad Bashan 203,997 1.03% Shlomo Tussia-Cohen (6) 70,000 *** Eliezer Manor (7) 108,500 *** Ora Setter (8) 30,000 *** Eli Akavia (9) 65,000 *** Raanan Ellran (10) 50,700 *** All executive officers and directors as a group 5,046,083 25.37% *** Less than 1% (1) Includes 711,663 ordinary shares held by Mr. Bashan. Also includes 7,462 ordinary shares held by Mr. Bashan’s wife. Also includes options held by Mr. Bashan to purchase 150,000 ordinary shares. Mr. Bashan disclaims beneficial ownership of the share held by his wife. Also includes 3,034,817 ordinary shares as to which Mr. Bashan has voting power pursuant to irrevocable proxy granted to him. (2) Includes 162,089 ordinary shares held by Mr. Gilboa. Also includes options held by Mr. Gilboa to purchase 30,000 ordinary shares. (3) Includes 33,588 ordinary shares held by Mr. Shafran. Also includes options held by Mr. Shafran to purchase 35,415 ordinary shares. (4) Includes 149,487 ordinary shares held by Mr. Aduk. Also includes options held by Mr. Aduk to purchase 31,676 ordinary shares. (5) Includes 154,689 ordinary shares held by Mr. Itay. Also includes options held by Mr. Itay to purchase 17,000 ordinary shares. (6) Consists of options held by Mr. Tussia-Cohen to purchase 70,000 ordinary shares. (7) Consists of options held by Mr. Manor to purchase 108,500 ordinary shares. (8) Consists of options held by Mrs. Setter to purchase 30,000 ordinary shares. (9) Consists of options held by Mr. Akavia to purchase 65,000 ordinary shares. (10) Consists of options held by Mr. Ellran to purchase 50,700 ordinary shares Share Option Plans The following is a description of the share option plans that we and our subsidiaries maintain. In addition to the discussion below, please see Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. Under Israeli law, except for issuances of options to directors, or members of their families, adoption of share option plans and revisions to these plans are not subject to shareholder approval. Under Nasdaq rules, however, absent an exemption, most new share option plans and material revisions are subject to shareholders approval. 55 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In 2008, the Company established an Employee Stock Purchase Plan pursuant to which 1,500,000 of our ordinary shares have been reserved for eligible employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. The exercise price of the ordinary shares will be 85% of the closing price on certain dates specified in the plan. As of the date of these financial statements, no shares have been issued to any eligible employees under this plan and such shares are to be issued at the beginning of the second quarter of 2008. 2006 Alternative Option Exercise Mechanism On April 11, 2006, we offered to each of our and our subsidiaries’ employees, and its directors and office holders (other than “External Directors”, as such term is defined in the Israeli Companies Law of 1999) who held outstanding vested and unvested options to purchase an aggregate of 4,485,017 of our ordinary shares, which were issued pursuant to the terms of the our 2001 Share Option Plan, as amended, to replace all of his or her outstanding vested and unvested options into a new number of ordinary shares, with the same fair values, as determined using the Black-Scholes pricing model, and the same vesting schedules . Our Board of Directors approved the Alternative Option Exercise Mechanism (“AOEM”), on February 12, 2006. Further, our shareholders approved the AOEM at an extraordinary meeting of the shareholders on March 21, 2006. As a result of the AOEM, we issued a total of 2,437,075 ordinary shares in exchange for options to acquire a total of 3,737,369 ordinary shares. A holder of options who did not participate in the AOEM, the original terms of his or her option agreement and the Share Option Plan continue to apply and such options are exercisable in accordance with their terms. In accordance with SFAS 123 (R) we consider the AOEM as a short-term inducement. Since the fair market value of the Company’s ordinary shares newly issued to each employee equals the fair value of the options replaced from him/her, no incremental compensation cost was recognized pursuant to the AOEM. 2001 Share Option Plan We established our 2001 Share Option Plan in February 2001. The plan provides for the grant of options to our employees, directors and consultants, and those of our subsidiaries and affiliates. Upon establishment of the plan, we reserved 75,000 ordinary shares for issuance. On February 26, 2002, on July 12, 2002, on March 28, 2003, on July 16, 2003, on September 2, 2003, on November 17, 2003, on April 20, 2004, on March 25, 2005, on September 25, 2005, and on December 3, 2007 our board of directors adopted certain resolutions with regard to the 2001 Share Option Plan that increased the number of available options under the plan by a total of 11,175,000 so that the aggregate number of options available under the plan is now 11,250,000. The increase of the number of available options under the plan pursuant to the Board of Directors resolutions dated March 28, 2003, July 16, 2003 and September 2, 2003 were subject to either our shareholders’ approval or an exemption granted pursuant to NASDAQ Market Place Rules that such approval is not required. We applied for an exemption in connection with such increases approved by the board of directors and such exemption has been granted by NASDAQ due to differences between the Israeli law and NASDAQ rules. On November 17, 2003, our board of directors approved a further increase of 500,000 options subject to either shareholders’ approval or additional exemption from NASDAQ. On April 20, 2004, our board of directors approved a further increase of 2,500,000 options subject to either shareholders’ approval or additional exemption from NASDAQ. On March 25, 2005, our board of directors approved a further increase of 2,500,000 options subject to either shareholders’ approval or additional exemption from NASDAQ. On September 25, 2005, our board of directors approved a further increase of 2,000,000 options. On December 3, 2007, our board of directors approved a further increase of 1,500,000 options. Currently, in accordance with Israeli law, increasing the shares pool in an option plan does not require shareholders’ approval. Under this plan, as of March 31, 2008, 4,790,947 options had been exercised and 1,535,240 are outstanding and exercisable. Of the options that are outstanding, as of March 31, 2008, 588,291 are held by our directors and officers listed above under “Item 6.A Directors and Senior Management,” and have a weighted average exercise price of $3.63. On February 26, 2002, our board of directors resolved to approve a grant by which, inter alia, we may pay, during a 12-month period, the salaries of certain of its employees who agree to participate in the grant, by way of grant of options. All such options are to be held by a trustee, for the benefit of each such employee. At the direction of and in accordance with instructions given by an employee who has received options, the trustee shall exercise such options and sell the shares issued upon such exercise. The proceeds mentioned above will be released on a monthly basis by the trustee (net of deductions required by law) to the maximum extent necessary for payment of such monthly salary to such employee. We undertook to pay from our own sources any and all differences between the relevant monthly salary and such proceeds. On March 28, 2003, our board of directors approved the extension of the arrangement for an additional period of six months commencing May 2003 and on October 28, 2003 our board of directors approved the extension of the arrangement for the employees of InterCard Systemelectronic for the period commencing November 2003 and ending July 2004. On August 26, 2004, our board of directors approved the extension of the arrangement for an additional period of six months commencing July 2004 and on November 26, 2004 our board of directors approved the extension of the arrangement for an additional period of twelve months commencing January 2005. The principal purpose of this arrangement was to enable us to use our available cash for other proper corporate purposes, including payment of sales expenses and research and development costs. 56 Our 2001 Share Option Plan is administered by our compensation committee which makes recommendations to our board of directors regarding the grantees of options and the terms of the grant, including exercise prices, grant dates, vesting schedules, acceleration of vesting and forfeiture. Under the Companies Law the allocation of options is solely within the authority of our board of directors. Under the plan, the terms and conditions of options are set forth in individual option agreements with the grantee. Under the plan, if the employment of a grantee is terminated for cause, all of his or her options expire immediately. A grantee whose employment is terminated without cause may exercise his or her vested options within three months of termination. If the termination is due to the death or disability of the grantee, the options may be exercised within 18 months of the date of termination in the case of death and 12 months in the case of disability. In accordance with the terms and conditions imposed by Section 102 of the Israel Income Tax Ordinance, or the Ordinance, grantees subject to taxation by the State of Israel that receive options under the 2001 Share Option Plan (excluding grantees who previously received options that were incorporated upon the commencement of Amendment No. 132 of the Income Tax ordinance, or the Tax Reform, that was approved on July 24, 2002 and became effective on January 1, 2003, and those who are not employees or office holders and those who are our controlling shareholders) are afforded certain tax benefits. We elected the benefits available under the “capital gains” alternative. There are various conditions that must be met in order to qualify for these benefits, including registration of the options in the name of a trustee, or the Trustee, for each of the Israeli employees who is granted options. Each such option, and any ordinary shares acquired upon the exercise of such option, must be held by the Trustee for a period commencing on the date of grant and ending no earlier than 24 months as of the end of the date in which the option was granted and deposited in trust with the Trustee or as of the end of such tax year (based on the time of grant). In the capital gains alternative a company may not recognize expenses pertaining to the options for tax purposes. We also granted our Israeli employees options pursuant to Section 102(c) of the Ordinance that are not held in trust by a trustee, which while enabling the immediate exercising and selling of options granted under the 2001 Share Option Plan, will be subject to the marginal tax rate up to 50% plus payments to the National Insurance Institute and health tax on the date of the sale of the shares or options. As of January 1, 2003, Section 3(i) of the Ordinance was partially replaced by Section 102(c) and no longer applies to allocations of options to Israeli employees (including directors and office holders). Section 3(i) still applies and imposes taxes on individuals and entities subject to taxation in Israel who are not employees (such as consultants and service providers) and to employees who are considered “controlling shareholders.” 2001 Employee Share Purchase Plan In June 2001, we approved the establishment of an employee share purchase plan. No shares have been issued under the plan. Under the plan, we have reserved 67,500 ordinary shares for purchase by our employees and those of our subsidiaries who have been employed for at least six months. Eligible employees may purchase our ordinary shares at 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of our ordinary shares of the first day of the applicable offering period or the first day of the applicable offering period. ITEM 7. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS A. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS The following table provides summary information regarding the beneficial ownership by the following persons of our outstanding ordinary shares as of March 31, 2008, or another date, if so provided: — each person or entity known to beneficially own more than 5% of our ordinary shares; — all of our executive officers and directors as a group. 57 Beneficial ownership of shares is determined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and generally includes any shares over which a person exercises sole or shared voting or investment power. To our knowledge and except as indicated by footnote, each person identified in the table below possesses sole voting and investment power with respect to all ordinary shares held by them. The table also includes the number of shares underlying options and warrants that are exercisable within 60 days of March 31, 2008 Ordinary shares subject to these options and warrants are deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of computing the ownership percentage of the person holding these options and warrants, but are not deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of computing the ownership percentage of any other person. The table reflects a total of 19,890,473 ordinary shares outstanding as of March 31, 2008. Unless otherwise indicated below, the address of each director, executive officer or listed shareholder is care of On Track Innovations Ltd., Z.H.R. Industrial Zone, P.O. Box 32, Rosh Pina, Israel 12000. Shares beneficially owned Name of beneficial owner Number Percent Oded Bashan (1) 3,853,942 19.38 % All executive officers and directors as a group 4,996,083 25.12 % Vuance ltd (Formerly SuperCom Ltd). (2) 1,308,483 6.6 % Terllus Fund Management Company, LLC (3) 1,299,700 6.5 % (1) Includes 711,663 ordinary shares held by Mr. Bashan. Also includes 7,462 ordinary shares held by Mr. Bashan’s wife. Also includes options held by Mr. Bashan to purchase 100,000 ordinary shares. Mr. Bashan disclaims beneficial ownership of the share held by his wife. Also includes 3,034,817 ordinary shares as to which Mr. Bashan has voting power pursuant to irrevocable proxy granted to him. (2) This information is as of December 31, 2007 and is based solely on a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on March 18, 2008, by Vuance Ltd. Based on the information provided in such Schedule 13G, the address of Vuance Ltd. is: Sagid House “Hasharon Industrial Park” P.O.B 5039 Qadima 60920 Israel. Vuance reports shared voting power over 1,308,483 shares. (3) This information is as of December 31, 2007 and is based solely on a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 14, 2008, by Terllus Fund Management Company, LLC. Based on the information provided in such Schedule 13G, the address of Terllus Fund Management Company, LLC. is: 350 Madison Avenue, 9th Floor New York, New York 10017. Terllus Fund Management Company, LLC reports shared voting power over 1,299,700 shares. 58 Significant Changes in the Ownership of Major Shareholders. On November 1, 2005 we completed an approximately $22.2 million private placement, or the Private Placement, of new equity financing with institutional investors from the US, Switzerland and England. The transaction involved the sale of 1,828,026 units, of which (i) 1,544,568 consist of one ordinary share and a warrant to purchase three-fifths (3/5) of an ordinary share and (ii) 283,458 consist of one ordinary share and a warrant to purchase one-half (1/2) of an ordinary share. The purchase price for each of the 1,828,026 units was $12.15 per unit, which equaled the average closing price of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Market during the last five trading days before pricing. The 1,196,431 warrants, which are exercisable since May 1, 2006, are for the purchase of an aggregate of up to 1,068,470 ordinary shares, they have terms of five years and an exercise price of $14.58 per share, and may be redeemed by OTI after two years if the market price of the underlying ordinary shares reaches $26.25 and certain other conditions are met. On December 31, 2006, pursuant to an asset purchase agreement dated as of November 7, 2006 between the Company and Vuance (formerly SuperCom) Ltd., an Israeli corporation (“Vuance”), we completed the acquisition of the main assets of Vuance , including the International Project Solution (“IPS”) division of Vuance. The acquisition provides us with accesses to new growing markets and complementary security technologies that safeguard against counterfeit and forgery. The aggregate purchase price for the acquisition was paid through the issuance of an aggregate of 2,827,200 of our ordinary shares. The 2,827,200 ordinary shares issued to Vuance are subject to a lock-up agreement, where one-seventh of the shares (403,885 ordinary shares) will be released from the lock-up restrictions every three months beginning on the closing date, i.e., December 31, 2006, for an aggregate period of eighteen months. Vuance executed an irrevocable proxy appointing the our Chairman, on behalf of the Board of Directors, or a person the Board of Directors will instruct, to vote the 2,827,200 ordinary shares issued to Vuance in connection with the transaction. Major Shareholders Voting Rights Our major shareholders do not have different voting rights. Record Holders Based on a review of the information provided to us by our transfer agent, as of March 12, 2008, there were 96 holders of record of our ordinary shares, of which 21 record holders holding approximately 2.25% of our ordinary shares had registered addresses in the United States. These numbers are not representative of the number of beneficial holders of our shares nor is it representative of where such beneficial holders reside since many of these ordinary shares were held of record by brokers or other nominees (including one U.S. nominee company, CEDE & Co., which held approximately 67% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of said date). B. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Our policy is to enter into transactions with related parties on terms that are on the whole no less favorable to us than those that would be available from unaffiliated parties. Based on our experience in the business sectors in which we operate and the terms of our transactions with unaffiliated third parties, we believe that all of the transactions described below met this policy standard at the time they occurred. Agreement with HolyTech Ltd. In January 1996, we entered into an agreement with HolyTech Ltd., a company owned by Varda Bashan, Ora Gilboa and certain other of our shareholders, which formalized an arrangement that had existed since 1992. Varda Bashan is the spouse of Oded Bashan, our co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, and Ora Gilboa is the spouse of Ronnie Gilboa, our co-founder and a director. Under the agreement, HolyTech provides us with management and engineering services as needed. Mrs. Bashan provides administration services and a number of other shareholders of HolyTech, who are also our employees, provide engineering and warehouse services. HolyTech has no activities other than the provision of these services to us. The cost of these services is intended to equal the cost of these services if performed by unrelated parties. The aggregate consideration for the services that HolyTech provided to us was $45,000 in 2005, $68,000 in 2006 and $73,000 in 2007. 59 Agreements with Directors and Officers We have entered into employment agreements with all of our officers. In addition, we have granted options to purchase our ordinary shares to our officers and directors. On January 31, 2003 the shareholders of OTI approved a bonus plan for our senior management and on July 11, 2003 our general meeting of shareholders approved a plan to issue options to our non-executive directors. See also Item 6.B. under Executive Compensation. Agreement Relating to Insurance Services We have been receiving insurance agency services from a family member of one of our officers. On August 22, 2003, our board of directors ratified and approved such engagement in accordance with the applicable Israeli Companies Law provisions. C. INTERESTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL Not applicable. ITEM 8. FINANCIAL INFORMATION A. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION The financial statements required by this item are found in Item 18 of this annual report, beginning on page F-1. Legal Proceedings We are currently not a party to any material legal proceedings and are not aware of any pending or threatened litigation against us that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business and the business of our subsidiaries taken as a whole. During the last two fiscal years, we have not been a party to any legal proceedings that have had a material adverse effect on our business and the business of our subsidiaries taken as a whole. On September 3, 2003, Edi Wuhl (in this paragraph, the “Plaintiff”), a former employee of the Company, filed a suit against the Company in the District Labor Court in Nazareth in the amount of NIS 3,953 (approximately $900). The suit is based on the Plaintiff’s claims that the Company breached the employment agreement with him, and that the Company owes him commission payment for certain sales. On December 17, 2003, the Company filed a statement of defense. On May 23, 2004, a preliminary hearing was conducted, which did not lead to any settlement. Proof hearings were conducted on April 30th, 2006, October 22nd, 2006 and November 14th, 2006. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, the district court has resolved that the Plaintiff is entitled to approximately USD $60, therefore, provision in the amount of $60 has been included in the financial statements. In September, 2007 a Ms. Ruth Lamdan (in this paragraph, the “Plaintiff”) has filed against one of the subsidiaries of the Company (the “Subsidiary”) a motion to approve a class action at the Tel Aviv District Court (the “Motion”), at the sum of NIS 67.1 million ($16.7 million). The law suit is based on claims regarding the performance of certain device product of the Subsidiary. The Subsidiary filed its response during January 2008.At this stage, the Company, based on legal advice, estimates that the exposure of the Subsidiary in connection with the motion is not probable; therefore, no provision has been made in the financial statements in respect of this claim. In October, 2007, a Mr. Doron Ezra (in this paragraph, the “Plaintiff”) has filed against one of the subsidiaries of the Company (the “Subsidiary”) and other third parties a motion to approve a class action at the Tel Aviv District Court (the “Motion”), at the sum of approximately NIS 2 million ($496,000). According to the Plaintiff, the Subsidiary and the other defendants charged via the subsidiary’s product, an amount per hour which exceeds the amount that they are authorize to charge. After December 31, 2007, the Subsidiary submitted to court a notice in which it joins to the other defendants’ application to dismiss the motion. At this stage, the Company, based on legal advice, is unable to estimate the chances of the Motion against the Subsidiary and, therefore, no provision has been made in the financial statements in respect of this claim. 60 Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares or other securities. We currently expect to retain all future earnings, if any, to finance the development of our business, and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made by our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and future prospects and other factors the board of directors may deem relevant. In the event of a distribution of a cash dividend out of tax exempt income, we will be liable for corporate tax at a rate of 25% in respect of the amount distributed. B. SIGNIFICANT CHANGES Except as otherwise disclosed in this annual report, no significant change has occurred since December 31, 2007. ITEM 9. THE OFFER AND LISTING A. OFFER AND LISTING DETAILS Our ordinary shares were quoted on the Neuer Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange since August 31, 1999 until January 31, 2003. Since January 31, 2003, the shares have been listed on the new Prime Standard Segment of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. Following the approval of our general shareholders’ meeting, our Board of Directors applied for the delisting of our shares from the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, which has been approved. The last day of trading of our ordinary shares on Frankfurt Stock Exchange was December 20, 2005. Our shares were quoted on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market from November 12, 2002 until December 20, 2004. On December 16, 2004, we were approved for listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, then known as the NASDAQ National Market, and our shares commenced trading on NASDAQ Global Market on December 20, 2004. The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the high and low closing prices of our ordinary shares in Euros giving effect to the reverse split as reported on the Neuer Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The closing prices that are indicated below commencing January 31, 2003 were as reported in the Prime Standard Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. It also shows, for the periods indicated, the high and low closing prices of our ordinary shares expressed in U.S. dollars based on the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers in foreign currencies, as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the relevant dates. See the discussion below for the exchange rates applicable during the periods set forth below. The following table also shows, for the periods indicated since November 2002 until December 2004, the high and low closing prices of our ordinary shares in U.S. dollars as reported on NASDAQ SmallCap, and for the periods indicated since December 2004, the high and low closing prices of our ordinary shares in U.S. dollars as reported on NASDAQ Global Market. Frankfurt StockExchange (1)(3)perShare € Frankfurt StockExchange (1)(3)perShare $ Nasdaq GlobalMarket (2)perShare $ High Low High Low High Low Year 2003 9.7 3.0 12.1 3.2 13.80 3.20 2004 11.5 5.3 14.5 6.5 14.74 6.46 2005 13.0 8 16.1 10.4 13.80 10.3 2006 -- -- -- -- 17.23 6.16 2007 -- -- -- -- 8.43 3.60 2006 First quarter -- -- -- -- 17.23 12.55 Second quarter -- -- -- -- 13.55 9.01 Third quarter -- -- -- -- 11.78 7.23 Fourth quarter -- -- -- -- 7.91 6.16 61 Frankfurt StockExchange (1)(3)perShare € Frankfurt StockExchange (1)(3)perShare $ Nasdaq GlobalMarket (2)perShare $ High Low High Low High Low 2007 First quarter -- -- -- -- 7.36 6.05 Second quarter -- -- -- -- 8.43 6.25 Third quarter -- -- -- -- 6.37 4.74 Fourth quarter -- -- -- -- 5.91 3.60 2008 First quarter -- -- -- -- 3.57 2.65 Month September 2007 -- -- -- -- 5.15 4.78 October 2007 -- -- -- -- 5.91 4.78 November 2007 -- -- -- -- 5.11 3.92 December 2007 -- -- -- -- 4.12 3.60 January 2008 -- -- -- -- 3.57 2.86 February 2008 -- -- -- -- 3.25 2.78 March 2008 -- -- -- -- 3.10 2.65 (1) Our ordinary shares were quoted on the Neuer Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange from August 31, 1999 until January 31, 2003, after which, until December 20, 2005, the shares were listed on the new Prime Standard Segment of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. To the extent required, shares prices are adjusted to give effect to our 10-for-1 reverse share split effective as of June 17, 2002. (2) Our ordinary shares were quoted on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market from November 12, 2002 until December 20, 2004. On December 16, 2004, we were approved for listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, and our ordinary shares commenced trading on the Global Market on December 20, 2004. (3) Until December 20, 2005 B. PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION Not applicable. C. MARKETS Our ordinary shares are traded publicly on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “OTIV” since December 20, 2004, and were traded on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market from November 12, 2002 until December 20, 2004. Until December 20, 2005, our ordinary shares were traded publicly on the Prime Standard Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol “OT5.” D. SELLING SHAREHOLDERS Not applicable. E. DILUTION Not applicable. F. EXPENSES OF THE ISSUE Not applicable. 62 ITEM 10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION A. SHARE CAPITAL Not applicable. B. MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel on February 15, 1990, under the name of De-Bug Innovations Ltd., with unlimited duration. We are registered with the Israeli registrar of companies in Jerusalem. Our founders were Oded Bashan and Ronnie Gilboa and our registration number is 52-004286-2. Our name was changed to On Track Innovations on July 8, 1991. Our objectives under our memorandum of association are to engage in any activity related to innovation and inventions in the fields of science and technology. The following is a summary of the material provisions of our Articles of Association and related provisions of Israeli corporate law. This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Articles of Association; see “Item 