ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a number of substantial risks. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and they should be considered in connection with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors should be read together with the other items in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Item 1. "Business" and Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation." Recent negative news reports in Mainland China have led to investigations by Chinese regulators into our business in Mainland China and caused us to temporarily modify some of our business practices in that market. These modifications, any sanctions imposed on us by the Chinese authorities and any associated adverse publicity may harm our business and financial condition. In January 2014, a series of articles were published by the People's Daily in Mainland China, which were subsequently picked up by other media outlets. These articles contained a number of allegations including that our compensation practices violated Chinese laws against pyramid and multi-level sales organizations, that our recruiting and training techniques were unlawful or inappropriate, that some of our products were not licensed for sale in Mainland China, that certain of our products were causing adverse reactions in some users and that our employees had taken actions to "hush up" these problems, that certain of our sales force had misrepresented the scientific efficacy of our products and the nature and extent of our connections with the scientific advisors who have helped in developing or testing our products and that certain of our sales people have falsely claimed endorsement of our products by public figures, media outlets and organizations. As a result of these allegations, a number of Chinese regulatory agencies began investigations or made inquiries regarding our business practices in Mainland China which, to date, have principally focused on our marketing claims and the structure of our sales organizations and compensation and whether they violate applicable Chinese regulations. While this has been the initial focus, there is no assurance that regulators will not extend their inquiries into other aspects of our business including those identified by the People's Daily. -19- TABLE OF CONTENTS In response to this media and regulatory scrutiny we have voluntarily taken a number of actions in Mainland China, including temporarily suspending our business promotional meetings, temporarily suspending acceptance of applications for any new sales representatives, and extending our product refund and return policies. The adverse publicity and suspension of business promotional meetings and acceptance of applications has had a significant negative impact on the number of Sales Leaders and Actives, and our revenue in the short term will be negatively impacted by these voluntary actions. Any inability to resume normal business operations in the near term could have a more significant impact on our business. We currently plan to focus our attention during the next several months on training our sales force with respect to the promotion of both products and the business opportunity we offer in Mainland China. It is currently unclear what impact the adverse publicity and our voluntary actions will have on our business in this market in the longer term or whether these voluntary actions will be effective in addressing concerns of regulators in Mainland China. Regardless, it is likely that we will be fined and could potentially face some other form of sanctions from these regulators. These other sanctions could include a formal suspension of our ability to recruit new sales people and direct sellers, a temporary suspension of our ability to sell products in various markets or, in the most extreme cases, loss of existing licenses to operate in various jurisdictions in Mainland China. Furthermore, the negative publicity stemming from the allegations made in the media, these governmental investigations and any potential sanctions could harm our business and operations. Accordingly, these investigations, any sanctions imposed upon us by governmental regulators and the negative media we have already received and could receive in the future could harm our business, operations and financial condition. We are currently being sued in several purported class action lawsuits and a derivative claim relating to the recent negative media and regulatory scrutiny of our business in Mainland China and the associated decline in our stock price. We have been named as a defendant in five purported class action complaints relating to the recent negative media and regulatory scrutiny of our business in Mainland China. We have also been named as a nominal defendant in a shareholder derivative suit relating to the same issues. These complaints purport to assert claims on behalf of certain of our stockholders or the company and allege that we made materially false and misleading statements regarding our sales operations in, and financial results derived from, our Mainland China business. These complaints also allege that we are engaged in illegal multi-level marketing activities in Mainland China in violation of local law. These complaints seek substantial monetary damages or make claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. These complaints, or others filed alleging similar facts, could result in monetary or other penalties that may affect our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, the negative publicity stemming from these complaints and the allegations they make could harm our business and operations. Accordingly, any adverse determination against us in these suits, or even the allegations contained in the suits regardless of whether they are ultimately found to be without merit, could harm our business, operations and financial condition. Difficult economic conditions could harm our business. Global economic conditions continue to be challenging. Even with continued growth in many of our markets, difficult economic conditions could adversely affect our business in the future by causing a decline in demand for our products, particularly if the economic conditions are prolonged or worsen. In addition, such economic conditions may adversely impact access to capital for us and our suppliers, may decrease the ability of our sales force and consumers to obtain or maintain credit cards, and may otherwise adversely impact our operations and overall financial condition. -20- TABLE OF CONTENTS Currency exchange rate fluctuations could impact our financial results. In 2013, approximately 92% of our sales occurred in markets outside of the United States in each market's respective local currency. We purchase inventory primarily in the United States in U.S. dollars. In preparing our financial statements, we translate revenue and expenses in our markets outside the United States from their local currencies into U.S. dollars using weighted average exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, our reported revenue, gross profit and net income will likely be reduced. Foreign currency fluctuations can also result in losses and gains resulting from translation of foreign currency denominated balances on our balance sheet. Although we may engage in transactions intended to reduce our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, there can be no assurance that these transactions will be effective. Given the complex global political and economic dynamics that affect exchange rate fluctuations, it is difficult to predict future fluctuations and the effect these fluctuations may have upon future reported results or our overall financial condition. Improper sales force actions that violate laws or regulations could harm our business. Sales force activities that violate applicable laws or regulations could result in government or third party actions against us, which could harm our business. For example, allegations have been made by various media outlets that certain of our sales representatives in Mainland China have failed to adequately follow and enforce our policies and regulations. In response to these allegations, our Audit Committee commenced an internal review and Chinese regulators have commenced investigations into our business in Mainland China. For a further description of these matters, see "– Recent negative news reports in Mainland China have led to investigations by Chinese regulators into our business in Mainland China and caused us to temporarily modify some of our business practices in that market. These modifications, any sanctions imposed on us by the Chinese authorities and any associated adverse publicity may harm our business and financial condition." For another example, the direct selling industry in Japan continues to experience regulatory and media scrutiny. Several direct selling companies in Japan have been penalized for actions of their distributors that violated applicable regulations, including a prominent international direct selling company and a large Japanese direct selling company that were suspended from sponsoring activities for three months in 2008 and six months in 2009, respectively. Over the last few years, we have received warnings from consumer centers in certain prefectures raising concerns about the number of general inquiries and complaints regarding us and our distributors. Although we are implementing additional steps to reinforce our distributor compliance, education and training efforts in Japan, we cannot be sure that such efforts will be successful. If the current level of inquiries or complaints does not improve, there is an increased likelihood that the government could take action against us, including fines, suspensions or other sanctions, or that we could receive further negative media attention, any of which could harm our business. Approximately 13% of our 2013 revenue was generated in Japan. Except in Mainland China, members of our sales force are not employees and act independently of us. The most significant area of risk for such activities relates to improper product claims and claims regarding the business opportunity of joining our sales force. We implement strict policies and procedures to ensure our sales force complies with legal requirements. However, given the size of our sales force, we experience problems from time to time. For example, product claims made by some of our sales force in 1990 and 1991 led to a United States Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") investigation that resulted in our entering into a consent decree with the FTC. In addition, rulings by the South Korean Federal Trade Commission and by judicial authorities against us and other companies in South Korea indicate that vicarious liability may be imposed on us for the criminal activity of our sales force. We have also seen an increase in the use of social media by our sales force, and an increase in sales aids and promotional material produced by our sales force in some markets, increasing the burden on us to monitor compliance of such materials, and increasing the risk that such materials could contain problematic product or marketing claims in violation of our policies and applicable regulations. As we expand internationally, our sales force often attempts to anticipate which markets we will open in the future and begin marketing and sponsoring activities in markets where we are not qualified to conduct business. We could face fines, suspensions or other legal action if our sales force violates applicable laws and regulations. -21- TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to retain our existing sales force and recruit additional people to join our sales force, our revenue will not increase and may even decline. Our products are primarily marketed by our sales force and we depend on them to generate virtually all of our revenue. Our sales force may terminate their services at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience high turnover among our sales force from year to year. People who join our company to purchase our products for personal consumption or for short-term income goals frequently only stay with us for a short time. Sales Leaders who have committed time and effort to build a sales organization will generally stay for longer periods. Our sales force has highly variable levels of training, skills and capabilities. To increase our revenue, we must increase the number of and/or the productivity of our sales force. We have experienced periodic declines in both Sales Leaders and Actives in the past and could experience such declines again in the future. If our initiatives do not drive growth in both our Sales Leaders and Actives, our operating results could be harmed. While we take many steps to help train, motivate, and retain our sales force, we cannot accurately predict how the number and productivity of our sales force may fluctuate because we rely primarily upon our Sales Leaders to find new consumers, and train and develop new Sales Leaders. Our operating results could be harmed if we, and our Sales Leaders, do not generate sufficient interest in our business and its products to retain and motivate our existing sales force and attract new people to join our sales force. The number and productivity of our sales force could be harmed by several additional factors, including: • any adverse publicity regarding us, our products, our distribution channel, or our competitors; • lack of interest in, dissatisfaction with, or the technical failure of, existing or new products; • lack of a compelling product or income opportunity that generates interest; • any negative public perception of our products and their ingredients; • any negative public perception of our sales force and direct selling businesses in general; • our actions to enforce our policies and procedures; • any regulatory actions or charges against us or others in our industry; • general economic and business conditions; and • potential saturation or maturity levels in a given country or market which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain our sales force in such market. -22- TABLE OF CONTENTS If direct selling regulations in Mainland China are modified, interpreted or enforced in a manner that results in negative changes to our business model or the imposition of a range of potential penalties, our business would be significantly negatively impacted. The government of Mainland China has adopted direct selling and anti-pyramiding regulations that impose significant restrictions and limitations on the way we do business. Most notably, the regulations include a restriction on the use of multi-level compensation, which is the basis of how we compensate our sales force outside of Mainland China. We have structured our business model in Mainland China based on several factors: our interpretation of applicable regulations, the guidance we have received from government officials, our understanding of the practices of other international direct selling companies operating in Mainland China, and our understanding as to how regulators are interpreting and enforcing the regulations. In Mainland China, we utilize sales employees and contractual sales promoters to sell products through our retail stores and through our website, and independent direct sellers who can also sell products away from our stores where we have obtained direct sales licenses. We generally compensate our Sales Leaders at a level that is competitive with other direct selling companies in the market and reflective of the compensation of our Sales Leaders globally. The nature of the political, regulatory and legal systems in Mainland China gives regulatory agencies at both the local and central levels of government broad discretion to interpret and enforce regulations as they deem appropriate to promote social order. We face a risk that regulators may change the way in which they currently interpret and enforce the direct selling regulations. As described above, Chinese regulators have initiated investigations to review issues raised by recent news reports relating to our business model and operations in Mainland China. For a further description of these matters, see "– Recent negative news reports in Mainland China have led to investigations by Chinese regulators into our business in Mainland China and caused us to temporarily modify some of our business practices in that market. These modifications, any sanctions imposed on us by the Chinese authorities and any associated adverse publicity may harm our business and financial condition." If our business practices are found to be in violation of applicable regulations as they may be interpreted or enforced, in particular our use of the sales productivity of a Sales Leader and the sales representatives that such Sales Leader leads and supervises in setting his/her salary on a quarterly basis, then we could be sanctioned and/or required to change our business model, either of which could significantly harm our business. Our operations in Mainland China are subject to significant government scrutiny, and we could be subject to fines or other penalties if our sales force engages in activities that violate applicable laws and regulations. We work diligently to train our sales force in Mainland China on how our Mainland China business model differs from our global business model. However, Sales Leaders in Mainland China may attend regional and global events and foreign Sales Leaders may participate in business meetings in Mainland China. Because our global model varies significantly from our Mainland China business model, mistakes may be made as to how those working in Mainland China should promote the business in Mainland China. These mistakes by our sales force may lead to governmental reviews and investigations of our operations in Mainland China. For example, as a result of allegations that, among other things, certain of our sales force in Mainland China failed to adequately follow and enforce our policies and regulations, Chinese regulators have commenced investigations into our business model and operations in Mainland China. For a further description of these matters, see "– Recent negative news reports in Mainland China have led to investigations by Chinese regulators into our business in Mainland China and caused us to temporarily modify some of our business practices in that market. These modifications, any sanctions imposed on us by the Chinese authorities and any associated adverse publicity may harm our business and financial condition." -23- TABLE OF CONTENTS The legal system in Mainland China provides governmental authorities with broad latitude to conduct investigations and many Chinese regulations, including those governing our business, are subject to significant interpretation, which may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We anticipate that our business will continue to attract significant governmental scrutiny, particularly as our business grows and our number of sales representatives continues to increase. At times, investigations and other regulatory actions have limited our ability to conduct business in certain locations in Mainland China, and have resulted in a few cases where we have paid fines. We face a risk that future investigations and other regulatory actions may result in fines, revocation of licenses or other more significant sanctions. Our ability to expand our business in Mainland China could be negatively impacted if we are unable to obtain additional necessary national and local government approvals in Mainland China. We have obtained direct selling licenses in 19 provinces and municipalities in Mainland China. In order to expand our direct selling model into additional provinces, we currently must obtain a series of approvals from district, city, provincial and national government agencies with respect to each province in which we wish to expand. The process for obtaining the necessary government approvals to conduct direct selling continues to evolve and is lengthy, as we are required to work with a large number of provincial, city, district and national government authorities. The complexity of the approval process as well as the government's continued cautious approach as direct selling develops in Mainland China makes it difficult to predict the timeline for obtaining these approvals. Furthermore, it is possible that the current government investigations of our business in Mainland China by various regulators may increase the time and difficulty we may face in obtaining additional licenses. If the government's evaluation of our direct selling activities results in further delays in obtaining licenses elsewhere, or if the current processes for obtaining approvals are delayed further for any reason or are changed or interpreted differently than currently understood, our ability to receive direct selling licenses in Mainland China and our growth prospects in this market, could be negatively impacted. If we are not able to register products for sale in Mainland China, our business could be harmed. We face lengthy timelines with respect to product registrations in Mainland China. The process for obtaining product permits and licenses may require extended periods of time that may prevent us from launching new product initiatives in Mainland China on the same timelines as other markets around the world. For example, products marketed in Mainland China as "health foods" are subject to extensive laboratory and clinical analysis by governmental authorities, and the product registration process in Mainland China generally takes one to two years, but may be substantially longer. We market both "health foods" and "general foods" in Mainland China. There is some risk associated with the common practice in Mainland China of marketing a product as a "general food" while seeking "health food" classification. If government officials feel the categorization of our products is inconsistent with product claims, ingredients or function, this could end or limit our ability to market such products in Mainland China in their current form. In addition, we are not permitted to market or sell "general foods" through our direct sales channel in Mainland China and any efforts by our direct salespeople to do so could result in negative publicity, fines and other government sanctions being imposed against us. -24- TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to effectively manage our rapid growth in Mainland China, our operations could be harmed. We have experienced rapid growth in Mainland China, which could strain our ability to effectively manage our operations. We continue to focus resources to successfully manage the necessary expansion of our management team, labor force, manufacturing operations, government relations efforts, retail stores and service centers. Insufficient management of such growth could result in, among other things, product delays or shortages, operating mistakes and errors, inadequate customer service, inappropriate claims or promotions by our sales force, and governmental inquires and investigations, all of which could harm our revenue and ability to generate sustained growth and result in unanticipated expenses. In addition, we need to continue to attract and develop qualified management personnel to sustain growth in this market. If we are not able to successfully retain existing personnel and identify, hire and integrate new personnel, our business and growth prospects could be harmed. Our business could be negatively impacted if we fail to execute our product launch process due to increased pressure on our supply chain, information systems and management. Although our product launch process may vary by market, we generally introduce new products to our sales force and consumers in all markets where the products are registered, through limited-time offers. The limited-time offers typically generate significant activity and a high level of purchasing, which may result in a higher than normal increase in revenue during the quarter of the limited-time offer and skew year-over-year and sequential comparisons. We may experience difficulty effectively managing growth associated with these limited-time offers and may face increased risk of improper sales force activities and related governmental scrutiny. In addition, the size and condensed schedule of these product launches increases pressure on our supply chain. If we are unable to accurately forecast sales levels in each market, obtain sufficient ingredients or produce a sufficient supply to meet demand, we may incur higher expedited shipping costs and we may temporarily run out of stock of certain products, which could negatively impact the enthusiasm of our sales force and consumers. Conversely, if demand does not meet our expectations for a product launch, we could incur increased inventory write-offs. For example, given heightened media and regulatory scrutiny in Mainland China and the voluntary measures we have taken in that market, we have adjusted our 2014 product launch plans. This change in plans increases the risk of inventory write-offs in Mainland China if we are unable to sell the inventory we produced based on our prior plans. Any inventory write-off would negatively impact our gross margins. In addition, our order processing systems could have difficulties handling the high volume of orders generated by limited-time offers. Although our previous limited-time offers have not materially affected our product return rate, these events may increase our product return rate in the future. If our Galvanic Spa facial unit, ageLOC Body Spa or Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner are determined to be medical devices in a particular geographic market or if our sales force uses these products for medical purposes or makes improper medical claims, our ability to continue to market and distribute such tools could be harmed. One of our strategies is to market unique and innovative products and tools that allow our sales force to distinguish our products, including our Galvanic Spa facial unit, ageLOC Body Spa or Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner. Any determination by regulatory authorities in our markets that these products must receive clearance or be registered as medical devices could restrict our ability to import or sell the product in such market until registration is obtained. While we have not been required to register our Galvanic Spa facial unit, ageLOC Body Spa or Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner as medical devices in most of our markets, we have registered our Galvanic Spa facial unit as a medical device in Indonesia, Thailand and Colombia. In addition, we have received clearance from the United States Food and Drug Administration to market a facial spa device for over-the-counter use. There have been legislative proposals in Singapore and Malaysia relating to the regulation of medical devices that could affect the way we market our Galvanic Spa facial unit, ageLOC Body Spa and Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner in these countries. In addition, if our sales force is making medical claims regarding our products or using our products to perform medical diagnoses or other activities limited to licensed professionals or approved medical devices, it could negatively impact our ability to market or sell these products. -25- TABLE OF CONTENTS Where necessary, obtaining medical device registrations and clearances could require us to provide documentation concerning product manufacturing and clinical utility, to make design, specification and manufacturing process modifications to meet standards imposed on medical device companies, and to modify our marketing claims regarding the registered product. While we successfully obtained clearance to market a facial spa device for over-the-counter use in the United States, and registered a facial spa unit as a medical device in Indonesia, Thailand and Colombia, because medical device regulations vary widely from country to country, there can be no assurance we will not face challenges or delays in obtaining clearance in other markets, or that we will be able to make any required modifications or provide documentation necessary to obtain clearance. If we obtain such medical device clearance in order to sell a product in one market, such clearance may be used as precedent for requiring similar approval for the product in another market, or for similar products in the same market. These additional requirements could increase the cost associated with manufacturing and selling these products as non-medical devices in such markets. Laws and regulations may prohibit or severely restrict direct selling and cause our revenue and profitability to decline, and regulators could adopt new regulations that harm our business. Various government agencies throughout the world regulate direct sales practices. Laws and regulations in Japan, South Korea and Mainland China are particularly stringent. These laws and regulations are generally intended to prevent fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as "pyramid" schemes, that compensate participants primarily for recruiting additional participants without significant emphasis on product sales to consumers. The laws and regulations in our current markets often: • impose order cancellations, product returns, inventory buy-backs and cooling-off rights for our sales force and consumers; • require us, or our sales force, to register with government agencies; • impose caps on the amount of commissions we can pay; • impose reporting requirements; and • require that we ensure, among other things, that our sales force maintain levels of product sales to qualify to receive commissions and that our sales force is compensated for selling products and not for recruiting others. Complying with these widely varying and sometimes inconsistent rules and regulations can be difficult, time-consuming and expensive, and may require significant resources. The laws and regulations governing direct selling are modified from time to time, and, like other direct selling companies, we are subject from time to time to government investigations in our various markets related to our direct selling activities. This can require us to make changes to our business model and aspects of our sales compensation plan in the markets impacted by such changes and investigations. In addition, countries where we currently do business could change their laws or regulations to prohibit direct selling. If we are unable to continue business in existing markets or commence operations in new markets because of these laws, our revenue and profitability may decline. -26- TABLE OF CONTENTS Challenges to the form of our network marketing system could harm our business. We may be subject to challenges by government regulators regarding the form of our network marketing system. Legal and regulatory requirements concerning the direct-selling industry generally do not include "bright line" rules and are inherently fact-based and subject to interpretation. As a result, regulators and courts have discretion in their application of these laws and regulations, and the enforcement or interpretation of these laws and regulations by governmental agencies or courts can change. We are aware of pending judicial actions and investigations against other companies in the direct selling industry. Adverse decisions in these cases could impact our business if direct selling laws or anti-pyramid laws are interpreted more narrowly or in a manner that results in additional burdens or restrictions on direct selling companies. We could also be subject to challenges by private parties in civil actions. We are aware of recent civil actions against some of our competitors in the United States, including one involving a significant settlement. Recent allegations by short sellers directed at us and our competitors regarding the legality of multi-level marketing in various markets have also created intense public scrutiny of us and our industry. Our business has also been subject to such formal and informal inquiries from various government regulatory authorities in the past regarding our business and our compliance with local laws and regulations. All of these actions and any future governmental scrutiny of us or our industry could generate negative publicity or further regulatory actions that could result in fines, restrict our ability to conduct our business in our various markets, enter into new markets, motivate our sales force and attract consumers. Government regulations and private party actions relating to the marketing and advertising of our products and services may restrict, inhibit or delay our ability to sell our products and harm our business. Government authorities regulate advertising and product claims regarding the efficacy and benefits of our products. These regulatory authorities typically require adequate and reliable scientific substantiation to support any marketing claims. What constitutes such reliable scientific substantiation can vary widely from market to market and there is no assurance that the research and development efforts that we undertake to support our claims will be deemed adequate for any particular product or claim. If we are unable to show adequate and reliable scientific substantiation for our product claims, or our marketing materials or the marketing materials of our sales force make claims that exceed the scope of allowed claims for dietary supplements, cosmetics or tools that we offer, the FDA or other regulatory authorities could take enforcement action requiring us to revise our marketing materials, amend our claims or stop selling certain products, which could harm our business. For example, the FDA recently issued warning letters to several cosmetic companies alleging improper structure/function claims regarding their cosmetic products, including, for example, product claims regarding gene activity, cellular rejuvenation, and rebuilding collagen. There is a degree of subjectivity in determining whether a claim is an improper structure/function claim. Given this subjectivity and our research and development focus on the sources of aging and the influence of certain ingredients on gene expression, there is a risk that we could receive a warning letter, be required to modify our product claims or take other actions to satisfy the FDA if the FDA determines any of our marketing materials include improper structure/function claims for our cosmetic products. In addition, plaintiffs' lawyers have filed class action lawsuits against some of our competitors after our competitors received these FDA warning letters. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to governmental actions or class action lawsuits, which could harm our business. -27- TABLE OF CONTENTS In the United States, effective December 1, 2009, the FTC approved revisions to its Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising, ("Guides"), that require disclosure of material connections between an endorser and the company they are endorsing and generally do not allow marketing using atypical results. Our sales force has historically used testimonials and "before and after" photos to market and sell some of our popular products such as our ageLOC Galvanic Spa systems and ageLOC Transformation anti-aging skin care system. We intend to continue to use testimonials for our popular products, including weight management products. In highly regulated and scrutinized product categories such as weight management, if we or our sales force fail to comply with the Guides or make improper product claims, the FTC could bring an enforcement action against us and we could be fined and/or forced to alter our marketing materials. Regulations governing the registration or pre-approval of our products could harm our business. Our products are subject to numerous domestic and foreign government agencies' and authorities' laws and extensive regulations governing the ingredients and products that may be marketed without pre-market approval and/or registration as a drug. Many of these laws and regulations involve a high level of subjectivity, are inherently fact-based and subject to interpretation, and vary significantly from market to market. These laws and regulations can also limit the claims we can make regarding our products and often restrict our ability to introduce products or ingredients into one or more markets. At times these laws and regulations may delay or prevent us altogether from launching a product in a market, require us to reformulate a product or limit or amend the claims made regarding a product. If these laws and regulations further restrict, inhibit or delay our ability to introduce or market our products or limit the claims we are able to make regarding our products, our business may be harmed. For example, in the United States some legislators and industry critics have pushed for years to increase regulatory authority by the FDA over nutritional supplements. In 2011, the FDA proposed draft guidance to clarify the FDA's interpretation of the dietary ingredient notification requirements. This draft guidance is not final yet but appears to indicate that the FDA is expanding its definition of what is considered a "new dietary ingredient" in the United States. The industry is providing comments and working with the FDA to modify this guidance. If enacted in final form as proposed, however, this guidance could impose new and significant regulatory barriers for our nutritional supplement products or unique ingredients, which could delay or inhibit our ability to formulate, introduce and sell nutritional supplements as we have in the past. We face similar pressures in our other markets, including Europe, which is expected to adopt additional regulations setting new limits on acceptable maximum levels of vitamins and minerals. In Europe, for example, we are unable to market supplements that contain ingredients that were not marketed in Europe prior to May 1997 ("novel foods") without going through an extensive registration and pre-market approval process. Such regulations in any given market can also limit our ability to import products and can delay product launches as we go through the registration and approval process for those products. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could face enforcement action against us and we could be fined, forced to alter or stop selling our products. New regulations governing the introduction, marketing and sale of our products to consumers could harm our business. Our operations could be harmed if new laws or regulations are enacted that restrict our ability to market or distribute our products or impose additional burdens or requirements on us in order to continue selling our products. We have observed a general increase in regulatory activity and activism in the United States and across many markets globally where we operate and the regulatory landscape is becoming more complex with increasingly strict requirements. If this trend continues, we may find it necessary to alter some of the ways we have traditionally marketed our products in order to stay in compliance with a changing regulatory landscape and this could add to the costs of our operations and/or have an adverse impact on our business. -28- TABLE OF CONTENTS Our operations could be harmed if we are found not to be in compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices. In the United States, FDA regulations on Good Manufacturing Practices and Adverse Event Reporting requirements for the nutritional supplement industry require us and our vendors to maintain good manufacturing processes, including stringent vendor qualifications, ingredient identification, manufacturing controls and record keeping. The ingredient identification requirement, which requires us to confirm the levels, identity and potency of ingredients listed on our product labels within a narrow range, is particularly burdensome and difficult for us with respect to a product like LifePak Nano, which contains as many as 36 different ingredients. We are also required to report serious adverse events associated with consumer use of our products. Our operations could be harmed if regulatory authorities make determinations that we, or our vendors, are not in compliance with these regulations or public reporting of adverse events harms our reputation for quality and safety. A finding of noncompliance may result in administrative warnings, penalties or actions impacting our ability to continue selling certain products. In addition, compliance with these regulations has increased and may further increase the cost of manufacturing certain of our products as we work with our vendors to assure they are qualified and in compliance. The loss of suppliers or shortages in ingredients could harm our business. We acquire ingredients and products from third-party suppliers and manufacturers. A loss of any of these suppliers and any difficulties in finding or transitioning to alternative suppliers could harm our business. In addition, we obtain some of our products, including our ageLOC Galvanic Spa systems and Tru Face Essence products from sole suppliers that own or control the product formulations, ingredients, or other intellectual property rights associated with such products. We also license the right to distribute some of our products from third parties. In the event we are unable to renew these contracts, we may need to discontinue some products or develop substitute products, which could harm our revenue. In addition, if we experience supply shortages or regulatory impediments with respect to the raw materials and ingredients we use in our products, we may need to seek alternative supplies or suppliers and may experience difficulties in finding ingredients that are comparable in quality and price. Some of our nutritional products, including g3 juice, incorporate natural products that are only harvested once a year and may have limited supplies. If demand exceeds forecasts, we may have difficulties in obtaining additional supplies to meet the excess demand until the next growing season. If we are unable to successfully respond to such issues, our business could be harmed. Product diversion to certain markets, including Mainland China, may have a negative impact on our business. From time to time, we see our products being sold through online or other distribution channels in certain markets. Although we have taken steps to try to control this activity, particularly for products sold in Mainland China, product diversion continues to be a challenge. Product diversion causes confusion regarding our distribution channels and negatively impacts the ability of our sales force to sell our products. It also creates a negative impression regarding the viability of the business opportunity for our sales force, which can harm our ability to recruit new people to join our sales force. Product diversion schemes may also involve illegal importation, investment or other activities. If we are unable to effectively address this issue or if diversion increases, our business could be harmed. -29- TABLE OF CONTENTS Changes to our sales compensation plans could be viewed negatively by some of our sales force, could fail to achieve desired long-term results and have a negative impact on revenue. Our sales compensation plans include some components that differ from market to market. We modify components of our sales compensation plans from time to time to keep our sales compensation plans competitive and attractive to our existing sales force and people interested in joining our sales force, to address changing market dynamics, to provide incentives to our sales force that we believe will help grow our business, to conform to local regulations and to address other business needs. Because of the size of our sales force and the complexity of our sales compensation plans, it is difficult to predict how such changes will be viewed by our sales force and whether such changes will achieve their desired results. For example, certain changes we made to our sales compensation plan in the past, which were successful in several markets, did not achieve anticipated results in certain other markets and negatively impacted our business. In addition, we have been required to modify our compensation plan in South Korea from time to time to stay within the 35% commission cap established by statute in that market. Because commissions, as a percentage of revenue, can fluctuate as distributor productivity fluctuates, we may be required to make further changes to stay within the cap in this market or may be at risk of exceeding the cap. Changes to reduce commission payout have had a negative impact on the sales force in the past and could in the future. Any failure to keep commission payout within the cap in South Korea could result in fines or other sanctions. Production difficulties, quality control problems and inaccurate forecasting could harm our business. Production difficulties and quality control problems and our reliance on third party suppliers to deliver quality products in a timely manner could harm our business. Occasionally, we have experienced production difficulties with respect to our products, including the import or export of ingredients and delivery of products that do not meet our specifications and quality control standards. These quality problems have in the past, and could in the future, result in stock outages or shortages in our markets with respect to such products, harming our sales and creating inventory write-offs for unusable products. Adverse publicity concerning our business, marketing plan, products or people could harm our business and reputation. Growth in our sales force and consumers and our results of operations can be particularly impacted by adverse publicity regarding us, the nature of our direct selling business models, our products or the actions of our sales force and employees. Given the nature of our operations and our continuous need to recruit and retain consumers and members of our sales force, we are particularly vulnerable to adverse publicity. Specifically, we are susceptible to adverse publicity concerning: • suspicions about the legality and ethics of network marketing; • recent negative news reports in Mainland China regarding our business in Mainland China; • recent reports that Chinese regulators have initiated investigations relating to our business in Mainland China; -30- TABLE OF CONTENTS • the safety or effectiveness of ingredients in our or our competitors' products; • regulatory investigations of us, our competitors and our respective products; • the actions of our current or former members of our sales force and employees; and • public perceptions of the direct selling industry or the nutritional or personal care industry generally. In addition, in the past we have experienced negative publicity that has harmed our business in connection with regulatory investigations and inquiries. Critics of our industry, short sellers and other individuals who want to pursue an agenda have in the past and may in the future utilize the Internet, the press and other means to publish criticisms of the industry, our company and our competitors, or make allegations regarding our business and operations, or the business and operations of our competitors. We or others in our industry may receive similar negative publicity or allegations in the future, and it may harm our business and reputation. Non-compliance with anti-corruption laws could harm our business. Our international operations are subject to anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"). Any allegations that we are not in compliance with anti-corruption laws may require us to dedicate time and resources to an internal investigation of the allegations or may result in a government investigation. Any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with existing anti-corruption laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, and other penalties from U.S. or other regulatory entities. Although we have implemented anti-corruption policies, controls and training globally to protect against violation of these laws, we cannot be certain that these efforts will be effective. We are aware that one of our competitors is under investigation in the United States for allegations that its employees violated the FCPA in Mainland China and other markets. If this investigation causes adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of our industry, our business could be harmed. Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by political, legal, tax and regulatory risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is exposed to risks associated with our international operations, including: • the possibility that a foreign government might ban or severely restrict our business method of direct selling, or that local civil unrest, political instability or changes in diplomatic or trade relationships might disrupt our operations in an international market; • the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems in certain areas where we operate; • the presence of high inflation in the economies of international markets in which we operate; • the possibility that a government authority might impose legal, tax or other financial burdens on us or our sales force, due, for example, to the structure of our operations in various markets; • the possibility that a government authority might challenge the status of our sales force as independent contractors or impose employment or social taxes on our sales force; and • the possibility that governments may impose currency remittance restrictions limiting our ability to repatriate cash. -31- TABLE OF CONTENTS We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of the services provided by any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior and regional management, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We currently have expatriates serving in key management positions in certain markets, including Mainland China, South Korea and Japan. Our senior and regional management employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. In addition, we need to continue to attract and develop qualified management personnel to sustain growth in our markets. If we are not able to successfully retain existing personnel and identify, hire and integrate new personnel, our business and growth prospects could be harmed. Inability of products and other initiatives to gain or maintain sales force and market acceptance could harm our business. Our operating results could be adversely affected if our products, business opportunities, and other initiatives do not generate sufficient enthusiasm and economic benefit to retain our existing consumers and sales force or to attract new consumers and people interested in joining our sales force. Potential factors affecting the attractiveness of our products, business opportunities, and other initiatives include, among other items, perceived product quality, product exclusivity or effectiveness, economic success in our business opportunity, adverse media attention, or regulatory restrictions on claims. In addition, our ability to develop and introduce new products could be impacted by, among other items, government regulations, the inability to attract and retain qualified research and development staff, the termination of third-party research and collaborative arrangements, intellectual property of competitors that may limit our ability to offer innovative products or that challenge our own intellectual property, and difficulties in anticipating changes in consumer tastes and buying preferences. In the second half of 2013, we introduced our ageLOC TR90 weight management and body shaping system globally through limited-time offers. Weight management is a challenging product category. Frequently, consumers have unrealistic product expectations and weight loss goals. There are also wide ranges in the degree of individual compliance with any weight management program, which can significantly impact consumer success and satisfaction. Our TR90 system consists of shakes and nutritional supplements, an eating plan, and exercise recommendations to encourage sustained changes to both eating habits and lifestyle. The TR90 system is designed to promote healthy weight loss and body composition rather than to rapidly maximize gross weight loss. For example, the TR90 shakes and eating plan promote consumption of lean protein throughout the day to support metabolism and lean body mass, thereby increasing the daily amount of time when the body is burning more calories from fat than muscle for a more healthy overall body composition. Unrealistic expectations, non-compliance, and misunderstanding of the TR90 approach to healthy weight loss and body composition have contributed to some initial reports of consumer dissatisfaction with the TR90 program. We currently plan to simplify the key components of the TR90 eating plan and take steps to strengthen the training of our sales force with respect to healthy weight loss and body composition. Our operating results could be adversely impacted if any of our products, including TR90, fail to gain or maintain sales force and market acceptance. -32- TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, in our more mature markets, one of the challenges we face is keeping Sales Leaders with established businesses and high income levels motivated and actively engaged in business building activities and in developing new Sales Leaders. There can be no assurance that our initiatives will continue to generate excitement among our sales force in the long-term or that planned initiatives will be successful in maintaining sales force activity and productivity or in motivating Sales Leaders to remain engaged in business building and developing new Sales Leaders. Some initiatives may have unanticipated negative impacts on our sales force, particularly changes to our sales compensation plans. The introduction of a new product or key initiative can also negatively impact other product lines to the extent our Sales Leaders focus their efforts on the new product or initiative. In addition, if any of our products fails to gain acceptance, we could see an increase in product returns. The loss of key Sales Leaders could negatively impact our growth and our revenue. As of December 31, 2013, we had a global network of approximately 1,335,000 Actives. More than 102,000 of our Actives were Sales Leaders. Less than 1,500 Sales Leaders occupied the highest level under our global sales compensation plan as of that date. These Sales Leaders, together with their extensive sales networks, generate substantially all of our revenue. As a result, the loss of a high-level Sales Leader or a group of leading Sales Leaders, whether by their own choice or through disciplinary actions by us for violations of our policies and procedures, could negatively impact our growth and our revenue. Government authorities may question our tax positions or transfer pricing policies or change their laws in a manner that could increase our effective tax rate or otherwise harm our business. As a U.S. company doing business in international markets through subsidiaries, we are subject to various tax laws and intercompany pricing regulations, including those relating to the flow of funds between our corporate entities. From time to time, we are audited by tax regulators in the United States and in our foreign markets. If regulators challenge our tax positions, corporate structure, transfer pricing methodologies, or intercompany transfers, we may be subject to penalties, interest, and payment of back taxes. This may increase our effective tax rate and our operations may be harmed. Tax rates vary from country to country, and, if a foreign tax authority determines that our profits in that jurisdiction need to be increased, we may not be able to fully utilize all foreign tax credits that are generated, which may increase our effective tax rate. The various customs, exchange control, and transfer pricing laws are continually changing and are further subject to interpretation by government agencies. We have experienced increased efforts by customs authorities in some countries to reclassify our products or otherwise increase the level of duties we pay on our products. Despite our best efforts to be aware of and comply with such laws and changes to and interpretations thereof, there is a risk that we may be out of compliance with such laws. We may need to adjust our operating procedures in response to such changes, and as a result, our business may suffer. We may be held responsible for certain taxes or assessments relating to the activities of our independent distributors, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our independent distributors are subject to taxation, and in some jurisdictions, governmental agencies impose an obligation on us to collect taxes and to maintain appropriate records. Furthermore, in some jurisdictions, we are subject to the risk of being responsible for social security and similar taxes with respect to our independent distributors. In the event that local laws and regulations, or the interpretation of local laws and regulations, change to require us to treat our independent distributors as employees, or that our independent distributors are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rather than independent contractors under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for social security and related taxes in those jurisdictions, plus any related assessments and penalties, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. If our independent distributors were deemed to be employees rather than independent contractors, we would also face the risk of increased liability for their actions. -33- TABLE OF CONTENTS The loss of or a disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2013, our principal properties consisted of distribution centers, pick-up locations, our corporate headquarters and other office locations, research and development facilities, manufacturing facilities, and retail stores and service centers in Mainland China. Additionally, we also use third party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our products. As a company engaged in manufacturing, distribution and research and development on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, fires, strikes and other labor or industrial disputes, disruptions in logistics or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing or distribution sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory or government issues, as well as natural disasters, pandemics, border disputes, acts of terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. For example, the earthquake and tsunami in 2011 disrupted our operations in Japan and negatively impacted our operating results. These risks may be exacerbated by our efforts to increase facility consolidation covering our manufacturing, distribution and supply footprints or if we are unable to successfully enhance our disaster recovery planning. The loss of, or damage to, any of our facilities or centers, or that of our third party manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions to transportation channels that we use to distribute our products to international warehouses may adversely affect our margins and profitability in those markets. We may experience disruptions to the transportation channels used to distribute our products, including increased airport and shipping port congestion, a lack of transportation capacity, increased fuel expenses, and a shortage of manpower. Disruptions in our container shipments may result in increased costs, including the additional use of airfreight to meet demand. Although we have not recently experienced significant shipping disruptions, we continue to watch for signs of upcoming congestion. Congestion to ports can affect previously negotiated contracts with shipping companies, resulting in unexpected increases in shipping costs and reduction in our profitability. Our markets are intensely competitive and market conditions and the strengths of competitors may harm our business. The markets for our products are intensely competitive. Our results of operations may be harmed by market conditions and competition in the future. Many competitors have much greater name recognition and financial resources than we have, which may give them a competitive advantage. For example, our Nu Skin products compete directly with branded, premium retail products. We also compete with other direct selling organizations. Because of regulatory restrictions concerning claims about the efficacy of personal care products and dietary supplements, we may have difficulty differentiating our products from our competitors' products, and competing products entering the personal care and nutritional market could harm our revenue. We also compete with other direct selling companies to attract and retain our sales force and consumers. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories and greater visibility, name recognition and financial resources than we do. Some of our competitors have also adopted and could continue to adopt some of our successful business strategies, including our global sales compensation plan. Consequently, to successfully compete in this industry, and attract and retain our sales force and consumers, we must ensure that our business opportunities and sales compensation plans are financially rewarding. We believe we have significant competitive advantages, but we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to successfully compete in this industry. -34- TABLE OF CONTENTS We may incur product liability claims that could harm our business. We sell products for human consumption and use. Our dietary supplement products consist of vitamins, minerals, botanicals and other ingredients that are classified as foods or dietary supplements. Our personal care products are cosmetic and other beautifying products intended to be used on the body and skin. These products are not generally subject to pre-market approval or registration processes so we cannot rely upon a government safety panel to qualify or approve our products for use, and some ingredients may not have long histories of human consumption or use. We rely upon published and unpublished safety information including clinical studies on ingredients used in our products and conduct our own clinical studies on some key ingredients and products, but not all products. A product may be safe for the general population when consumed or used as directed but could cause an adverse reaction for a person who has a health condition or allergies, or who is taking a prescription medication. While we include what we believe are adequate instructions and warnings and we have historically had low numbers of reported reactions, previously unknown adverse reactions could occur. Recent media reports in Mainland China included allegations about our products having harmful side effects for certain of our consumers. While we believe these are isolated incidents, we are investigating these allegations. If we discover that our products are causing adverse reactions in a large number of individuals, or if we determine that any of our employees have not properly handled reports of adverse reactions, we could suffer further adverse publicity or governmental sanctions. As a result of the type of products that we sell, we may be subject to various product liability claims, including that the products fail to meet quality or manufacturing specifications, contain contaminants, include inadequate instructions as to their proper use, include inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances or for persons with health conditions or allergies, or cause adverse reactions or side effects. Product liability claims could increase our costs, and adversely affect our business and financial results. As we continue to offer an increasing number of new products through larger scale limited-time offers our product liability risk may increase. If our sales force or employees provide improper or inappropriate advice regarding our products, their use or safety, we may be subject to additional product liability. We have elected to self-insure our product liability risks. We continue to periodically evaluate whether we can and should obtain product liability insurance. Based upon our current approach to product liability risk management if any of our products are found to cause any injury or damage or we become subject to product liability claims, we will be subject to the full amount of liability associated with any injuries or damages. This liability could be substantial and may exceed our existing reserves and harm our business. We are involved, and may become involved in the future, in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could adversely affect our financial results. In addition to the securities class action and shareholder derivative litigation described above in "– We are currently being sued in several purported class action lawsuits and a derivative claim relating to the recent negative media and regulatory scrutiny of our business in Mainland China and the associated decline in our stock price," we are currently, and may in the future become, party to other litigation. In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly affect financial results. We are currently vigorously contesting these litigation claims. However, it is not possible to predict the final resolution of the litigation to which we currently are or may in the future become party to, and the impact of certain of these matters on our business, results of operations and financial condition could be material. -35- TABLE OF CONTENTS We have been involved in two separate disputes with customs authorities in Japan with respect to duty assessments on several of our products. In November 2013, the Supreme Court of Japan declined to hear our appeal regarding a dispute related to additional customs assessments made by Yokohama Customs for the period of October 2002 through July 2005. In 2011, we recorded an expense for the full amount of these disputed assessments. This matter is now closed. The second dispute relates to additional customs assessments made by Yokohama Customs for the period of October 2006 through September 2009 in connection with post-importation audits, as well as the disputed portion of our import duties from October 2009 to the present, which we have or will hold in bond or pay under protest. The aggregate amount of these assessments and disputed duties was 4.2 billion Japanese yen as of December 31, 2013 (approximately $40.2 million), net of any recovery of consumption taxes. In addition, we are currently being required to post a bond or make a deposit equal to the difference between our declared duties and the amount the customs authorities have determined we should be paying on all current imports. We are now pursuing this matter in Tokyo District Court. Any adverse rulings in these matters could materially impact our results. While we anticipate that additional duty disputes with Japanese authorities will be limited going forward as we have entered into an arrangement to purchase a majority of the affected products in Japan from a Japanese company that purchases and imports the products from the manufacturer, there can be no assurance that this arrangement will have the desired effect or that such arrangement will not be terminated in the future. Please refer to Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" for more information regarding these litigation matters. Our intellectual property may infringe on the rights of others, resulting in costly litigation. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, there has been an increase in the filing of suits alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, which pressure defendants into entering settlement arrangements quickly to dispose of such suits, regardless of their merit. Other companies or individuals may allege that we, or our sales force, consumers, licensees or other parties indemnified by us infringe on their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, defending such intellectual property litigation can be costly, distract management's attention and resources, and the outcome is inherently uncertain. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. Any of these results may adversely affect our financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our product innovations and our brand equity. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality and other types of agreements with our employees, sales force, consumers, suppliers and other parties, to establish, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries, including emerging markets such as Mainland China, do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our patents and trademarks may be substantial. We have filed patent applications to protect our intellectual property rights in our new technologies, however, there can be no assurance that our patent applications will be approved, that any patents issued will adequately protect our intellectual property, or that such patents will not be challenged by third parties or found by a judicial authority to be invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, many of our products rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties on reasonable terms or at all. -36- TABLE OF CONTENTS To enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties, such as patent infringement suits or interference proceedings. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our financial condition. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. Our employees may leave to work for competitors. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may be disclosed to or otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our current or former employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and adversely affect our financial condition. We may be subject to claims that we, or our employees, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of our employees' former employers. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other personal care product or nutritional supplement companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent that our employees are involved in research areas that are similar to those in which they were involved with their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. Any future acquisitions may expose us to additional risks. From time to time we review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. The financing for any of these acquisitions could dilute the interests of our stockholders, result in an increase in our indebtedness or both. Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including: -37- TABLE OF CONTENTS • difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses and disruption to our direct selling channel; • diversion of management's attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with our suppliers, sales force or consumers; and • risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience. Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms. Any failure of our internal controls over financial reporting or our compliance efforts could harm our stock price and our financial and operating results or could result in fines or penalties. We have implemented internal controls to help ensure the accuracy of our financial reporting and have implemented compliance policies and programs to help ensure that our employees and sales force comply with applicable laws and regulations. Our internal audit team regularly audits our internal controls and various aspects of our business and we regularly assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. There can be no assurance, however, that these internal or external assessments and audits will identify all significant or material weaknesses in our internal controls. Any failure to correct a weakness in internal controls could result in the disclosure of a material weakness. If a material weakness results in a material misstatement in our financial results, we may also have to restate our financial statements. From time to time, we initiate further investigations into our business operations based on the results of these audits or complaints, questions, or allegations made by employees or other parties regarding our business practices and operations. In addition, our business and operations may be investigated by applicable government authorities. In the event any of these investigations identify material violations of applicable laws by our employees or our sales force, we could be subject to adverse publicity, fines, penalties or loss of licenses or permits. System failures could harm our business. With global operations and a complex sales compensation plan, our business is highly dependent on efficiently functioning information technology systems. Our systems may be damaged or disrupted by fires, floods, earthquakes or other natural disasters, telecommunications failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. We have adopted and implemented a Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery Plan. Our data is archived and stored at third-party secure sites and we have recovery sites for certain critical data and operations. Growth in our business could also strain our systems. There can be no assurance that our systems will not be significantly damaged or disrupted or that our systems will be adequate to meet our future business needs or that a system failure will not significantly damage the Company's reputation. -38- TABLE OF CONTENTS Cyber security risks and the failure to maintain the integrity of company, employee, sales force or guest data could expose us to data loss, litigation and liability, and our reputation could be significantly harmed. We collect and retain large volumes of company, employee, sales force and guest data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information, for business purposes, including for transactional and promotional purposes, and our various information technology systems enter, process, summarize and report such data. The integrity and protection of this data is critical to our business. We are subject to significant security and privacy regulations, as well as requirements imposed by the credit card industry. Maintaining compliance with these evolving regulations and requirements could be difficult and may increase our expenses. In addition, a penetrated or compromised data system or the intentional, inadvertent or negligent release or disclosure of data could result in theft, loss or fraudulent or unlawful use of company, employee, sales force or guest data which could harm our reputation, disrupt our operations, or result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits. Epidemics and other crises could negatively impact our business. Due to the person-to-person nature of direct selling, our results of operations could be harmed if the fear of a communicable and rapidly spreading disease or other crises such as natural disasters result in travel restrictions or cause people to avoid group meetings or gatherings or interaction with other people. For example, a SARS epidemic in Asia negatively impacted our revenue in 2003. It is difficult to predict the impact on our business, if any, of a recurrence of SARS, the emergence of new epidemics, or other crises. In addition, most of our Pharmanex nutritional supplement revenue is generated from products that are encapsulated in bovine- and/or porcine-sourced gel capsules. If we experience production difficulties, quality control problems, or shortages in supply in connection with bovine or porcine related health concerns, this could result in additional risk of product shortages or write-offs of inventory. We may be unable to introduce our products in some markets if we are unable to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or if any product ingredients are prohibited, which could harm our business. The market price of our Class A common stock is subject to significant fluctuations due to a number of factors that are beyond our control. Our Class A common stock closed at $49.95 per share on January 31, 2012 and closed at $85.15 per share on January 31, 2014. During this two-year period, our Class A common stock traded as low as $32.36 per share and as high as $140.50 per share. Many factors, including some we may be unable to control, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fall. Some of these factors include: • fluctuations in our operating results; • government investigations of our business; • adverse publicity related to our business, products, industry or competitors; • the sale of shares of Class A common stock by significant stockholders; • general trends in the market for our products; • acquisitions by us or our competitors; • economic or currency exchange issues in markets in which we operate; -39- TABLE OF CONTENTS • changes in estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; • speculative trading, including short selling and options trading; and • general business and political conditions. Broad market fluctuations could also lower the market price of our Class A common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. Some of the markets in which we operate may become highly inflationary, which could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In some of our markets we face risks associated with high levels of inflation. High levels of inflation and currency devaluations in any of our markets could negatively impact our balance sheet and results of operations. For example, in 2010, Venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. In February 2013, Venezuela devalued its bolivar fuertes ("bolivar") against the U.S. dollar, which resulted in an official exchange rate of 6.3. Due to the current political and economic environment in Venezuela, there is a risk that there could be additional foreign currency devaluations. The functional currency in highly inflationary economies is the U.S. dollar and transactions denominated in the local currency are re-measured as if the functional currency were the U.S. dollar. The re-measurement of local currencies into U.S. dollars creates translation adjustments, which are included in the consolidated statements of operations. A country is considered to have a highly inflationary economy if it has a cumulative inflation rate of approximately 100% or more over a three-year period as well as other qualitative factors including historical inflation rate trends (increasing and decreasing), the capital intensiveness of the operation and other pertinent economic factors. During 2010, Venezuela was considered to be highly inflationary, as noted above. During the periods ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, our Venezuelan subsidiary's net sales revenue represented approximately 0.3%, 0.7% and 1.1% of consolidated net sales revenue, respectively. We did not operate in any country other than Venezuela that was considered to have a highly inflationary economy during the periods ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013. Some of the markets in which we operate have currency controls in place, which may restrict our repatriation of cash. If foreign governments restrict transfers of cash out of their country and control exchange rates, we may be limited as to the timing and amount of cash we can repatriate and may not be able to repatriate cash at beneficial exchange rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We typically fund the cash requirements of our operations in the U.S. through intercompany charges for products, license fees and corporate services. However, in some markets such as Mainland China, where we have lower intercompany charges, we may be unable to repatriate cash from current operations in the form of dividends until we file the necessary statutory financial statements for the relevant period. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $256 million in cash denominated in Chinese yuan. -40- TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, as of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $34 million in cash denominated in bolivar. Currency exchange restrictions enacted by the government of Venezuela require approval from the government's currency control organization for our subsidiary in Venezuela to obtain U.S. dollars at an official exchange rate to pay for imported products or to repatriate dividends to the United States. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 