ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a number of substantial risks. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and they should be considered in connection with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors should be read together with the other items in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Item 1. "Business" and Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation." - 18 - TABLE OF CONTENTS Difficult economic conditions could harm our business. Global economic conditions continue to be challenging. Even with continued growth in many of our markets, difficult economic conditions could adversely affect our business in the future by causing a decline in demand for our products, particularly if the economic conditions are prolonged or worsen. In addition, such economic conditions may adversely impact access to capital for us and our suppliers, may decrease the ability of our distributors and consumers to obtain or maintain credit cards, and may otherwise adversely impact our operations and overall financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could impact our financial results. In 2012, approximately 89% of our sales occurred in markets outside of the United States in each market's respective local currency. We purchase inventory primarily in the United States in U.S. dollars. In preparing our financial statements, we translate revenue and expenses in our markets outside the United States from their local currencies into U.S. dollars using weighted average exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, our reported revenue, gross profit and net income will likely be reduced. Foreign currency fluctuations, particularly with respect to the Japanese yen given the amount of yen denominated debt on our balance sheet, can also result in losses and gains resulting from translation of foreign currency denominated balances on our balance sheet. Although we may engage in transactions intended to reduce our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, there can be no assurance that these transactions will be effective. Given the complex global political and economic dynamics that affect exchange rate fluctuations, it is difficult to predict future fluctuations and the effect these fluctuations may have upon future reported results or our overall financial condition. Improper distributor actions that violate laws or regulations could harm our business. Distributor activities that violate applicable laws or regulations could result in government or third party actions against us, which could harm our business. Except in China, our distributors are not employees and act independently of us. The most significant area of risk for such activities relates to improper product claims and claims regarding the business opportunity of being a distributor. We implement strict policies and procedures to ensure our distributors comply with legal requirements. However, given the size of our distributor force, we experience problems with distributors from time to time. For example, product claims made by some of our distributors in 1990 and 1991 led to a United States Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") investigation that resulted in our entering into a consent decree with the FTC. In addition, rulings by the South Korean Federal Trade Commission and by judicial authorities against us and other companies in South Korea indicate that vicarious liability may be imposed on us for the criminal activity of our distributors. We have also seen an increase in sales aids and promotional material produced by distributors and distributor groups in some markets, increasing the burden on us to monitor compliance of such materials and increasing the risk that such materials could contain problematic product or marketing claims in violation of our policies and applicable regulations. As we expand internationally, our distributors often attempt to anticipate which markets we will open in the future and begin marketing and sponsoring activities in markets where we are not qualified to conduct business. We could face fines or other legal action if our distributors violate applicable laws and regulations. If we are unable to retain our existing distributors and recruit additional distributors, our revenue will not increase and may even decline. Our products are primarily marketed by our distributors and we depend on them to generate virtually all of our revenue. Our distributors may terminate their services at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience high turnover among distributors from year to year. Distributors who join to purchase our products for personal consumption or for short-term income goals frequently only stay with us for a short time. Sales Leaders who have committed time and effort to build a sales organization will generally stay for longer periods. Distributors have highly variable levels of training, skills and capabilities. To increase our revenue, we must increase the number of and/or the productivity of our distributors. - 19 - TABLE OF CONTENTS We have experienced periodic declines in both Sales Leaders and Actives in the past and could experience such declines again in the future. If our initiatives do not drive growth in both our Sales Leaders and Actives, our operating results could be harmed. While we take many steps to help train, motivate, and retain distributors, we cannot accurately predict how the number and productivity of distributors may fluctuate because we rely primarily upon our Sales Leaders to find new consumers, and train and develop new Sales Leaders. Our operating results could be harmed if we, and our Sales Leaders, do not generate sufficient interest in our business to retain and motivate existing distributors and attract new distributors. The number and productivity of our distributors could be harmed by several additional factors, including: • any adverse publicity regarding us, our products, our distribution channel, or our competitors; • lack of interest in, or the technical failure of, existing or new products; • lack of a compelling product or income opportunity that generates interest for potential new distributors; • any negative public perception of our products and their ingredients; • any negative public perception of our distributors and direct selling businesses in general; • our actions to enforce our policies and procedures; • any regulatory actions or charges against us or others in our industry; • general economic and business conditions; and • potential saturation or maturity levels in a given country or market which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain distributors in such market. Because our Japanese operations account for a significant part of our business, continued weakness in our business operations in Japan could harm our business. Approximately 23% of our 2012 revenue was generated in Japan. Although our revenue in Japan increased in 2012 compared to the prior year, we have experienced local currency revenue declines in the previous several years and continue to face challenges in this market. These declines could continue or increase. Factors that could impact our results in the market include: • continued or increased levels of regulatory and media scrutiny and any regulatory actions taken by regulators, or any adoption of more restrictive regulations, in response to such scrutiny; • significant weakening of the Japanese yen; - 20 - TABLE OF CONTENTS • increased regulatory constraints with respect to the claims we can make regarding the efficacy of our products, which could limit our ability to effectively market them; • inappropriate activities by our distributors and any resulting regulatory actions; • improper practices of other direct selling companies or their distributors that increase regulatory and media scrutiny of our industry; • increased weakness in the economy or consumer confidence; and • increased competitive pressures from other direct selling companies and their distributors who actively seek to solicit our distributors to join their businesses. Regulatory scrutiny of the direct selling industry in Japan could harm our business if we are not able to successfully limit the number of general inquiries and complaints regarding our business received by consumer centers. The direct selling industry in Japan continues to experience regulatory and media scrutiny. Several direct sellers in Japan have been penalized for actions of distributors that violated applicable regulations, including a prominent international direct selling company and a large Japanese direct selling company that were suspended from sponsoring activities for three months in 2008 and six months in 2009, respectively. Over the last few years, we have received warnings from consumer centers in certain prefectures raising concerns about the number of general inquiries and complaints regarding us. Although we are implementing additional steps to reinforce our distributor compliance, education and training efforts in Japan, we cannot be sure that such efforts will be successful. If the current level of inquiries or complaints does not improve, there is an increased likelihood that the government could take action against us, including sanctions and or suspensions, or that we could receive negative media attention, all of which could harm our business. If direct selling regulations in China are modified, interpreted or enforced in a manner that results in negative changes to our business model or the imposition of a range of potential penalties, our business would be significantly negatively impacted. The government of China has adopted direct selling and anti-pyramiding regulations that impose significant restrictions and limitations on the way we do business. Most notably, the regulations include a restriction on the use of multi-level compensation, which is the basis of how we compensate distributors outside of China. We have structured our business model in China based on several factors: our interpretation of applicable regulations, the guidance we have received from government officials, our understanding of the practices of other international direct selling companies operating in China, and our understanding as to how regulators are interpreting and enforcing the regulations. In China, we operate with both independent direct sellers who can sell away from our stores as well as contractual sales promoters who can progress through various leadership positions in our sales organization and become employed sales representatives once they have achieved designated performance levels. We generally compensate our Sales Leaders at a level that is competitive with other direct selling companies in the market and reflective of the compensation of our Sales Leaders globally. The nature of the political, regulatory and legal systems in China gives regulatory agencies at both the local and central levels of government broad discretion to interpret and enforce regulations as they deem appropriate to promote social order. We face a risk that regulators may change the way in which they currently interpret and enforce the direct selling regulations. If our business practices are found to be in violation of applicable regulations as they may be interpreted or enforced in the future, in particular our use of the sales productivity of a Sales Leader and the sales promoters and employees that such Sales Leader leads and supervises in setting his/her quarterly compensation level, then we could be sanctioned and/or required to change our business model, either of which could significantly harm our business. - 21 - TABLE OF CONTENTS Our operations in China are subject to significant government scrutiny, and we could be subject to fines or other penalties if our sales force engage in activities that violate applicable laws and regulations. We work diligently to train our sales force in China on how our China business model differs from our global business model. However, because there are often foreign Sales Leaders performing training in China and because our global model varies significantly from our China business model, confusion can result as to how those working in China should promote the business in China. This confusion may lead to governmental reviews and investigations of our operations in China. The legal system in China provides governmental authorities with broad latitude to conduct investigations. We anticipate that our business will continue to attract significant governmental scrutiny, particularly as our business grows and the number of sales employees and contractual sales promoters continues to increase. We face a risk that future investigations may result in fines or other more significant sanctions. Our ability to expand our business in China could be negatively impacted if we are unable to obtain additional necessary national and local government approvals in China. We have obtained direct selling licenses in over 50 cities and districts covering 15 provinces in China. In order to expand our direct selling model into additional provinces, we currently must obtain a series of approvals from district, city, provincial and national government agencies with respect to each province in which we wish to expand. The process for obtaining the necessary government approvals to conduct direct selling continues to evolve and is lengthy, as we are required to work with a large number of provincial, city, district and national government authorities. The complexity of the approval process as well as the government's continued cautious approach as direct selling develops in China makes it difficult to predict the timeline for obtaining these approvals. If the government's evaluation of our direct selling activities results in further delays in obtaining licenses elsewhere, or if the current processes for obtaining approvals are delayed further for any reason or are changed or are interpreted differently than currently understood, our ability to receive direct selling licenses in China and our growth prospects in this market, could be negatively impacted. We also face lengthy timelines with respect to product registrations in China. The registration process may be particularly difficult for nutrition products classified as health foods. The process for obtaining product permits and licenses may require extended periods of time that may prevent us from being able to launch new product initiatives in China on the same timelines as other markets around the world. If we are unable to effectively manage our rapid growth in China, our operations could be harmed. We have experienced rapid growth in China, which could strain our ability to effectively manage our operations. We continue to focus resources to successfully manage the necessary expansion of our management team, labor force, manufacturing operations, government relations efforts, and stores and service centers. Insufficient management of such growth could result in, among other things, product delays or shortages, operating mistakes and errors, inadequate customer service, inappropriate claims or promotions by our sales force, and governmental inquires and investigations, all of which could harm our revenue and ability to generate sustained growth and result in unanticipated expenses. In addition, we will need to continue to attract and develop qualified management personnel to sustain growth in this market. If we are not able to successfully retain existing personnel and identify, hire and integrate new personnel, our business and growth prospects could be harmed. - 22 - TABLE OF CONTENTS Our business could be negatively impacted if we fail to execute our product launch process due to increased pressure on our supply chain, information systems and management. Although our product launch process may vary by market, we generally introduce new products to our distributors and consumers in all markets where the products are registered, through limited-time offers in connection with global and regional distributor events. The limited-time offers typically generate significant distributor activity and a high level of purchasing, which may result in a higher than normal increase in revenue during the quarter of the limited-time offer and skew year-over-year and sequential comparisons. We typically make a new product generally available within a year following the regional limited-time offers. We currently anticipate that the size of these limited-time offers may increase as our Actives grow and the percentage of Actives participating in these limited-time offers increases. However, we cannot be sure whether these limited-time offers will continue to generate distributor interest and participation, or what the short- and long-term impact will be on our business. We may experience difficulty effectively managing growth associated with these limited-time offers. In addition, the size and condensed schedule of these global product launches increases pressure on our supply chain. If we are unable to accurately forecast sales levels in each market, obtain sufficient ingredients or produce a sufficient supply to meet global demand, we may incur higher expedited shipping costs and we may experience stockouts, which could negatively impact the enthusiasm of our distributors and consumers. Conversely, if we over forecast demand for a global product launch, we could incur increased inventory write-offs. Our order processing systems could have difficulties handling the high volume of orders generated by limited-time offers. Although our previous limited-time offers have not materially affected our product return rate, these events may increase our product return rate in the future. If our Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner or Galvanic Spa Systems, including our recently launched Body Spa, are determined to be medical devices in a particular geographic market or if our distributors use these products for medical purposes or make improper medical claims, our ability to continue to market and distribute such tools could be harmed. One of our strategies is to market unique and innovative products and tools that allow our distributors to distinguish our products, including the Galvanic Spa System and the Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner. Any determination by regulatory authorities in our markets that these products must be registered as medical devices could restrict our ability to import or sell the product in such market until registration is obtained. While we have not been required to register these products as medical devices in most of our markets, we were required to register our Galvanic Spa System as a medical device in Indonesia, Thailand and Colombia. There have been legislative proposals in Singapore and Malaysia relating to the regulation of medical devices that could affect the way we market the Galvanic Spa System and the Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner in these countries. The United States Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") has refused admission of shipments of our Galvanic Spa facial units because the FDA believes it may require clearance as a medical device. While we disagree with the FDA's position, we have elected to suspend further imports of Galvanic Spa facial units. In September 2012, we filed an application for clearance of an alternative facial spa unit as a low-level medical device. We currently anticipate that this process could take nine months to a year or longer. If we face delays or challenges in getting clearance or resolving the matter with the FDA, or if we cease selling existing inventory or do not have sufficient inventory to sell while we work through these issues with the FDA, our results in the United States could be negatively impacted. In addition, if our distributors are making medical claims regarding our products or are using our products to perform medical diagnoses or other activities limited to licensed professionals or approved medical devices, it could negatively impact our ability to market or sell such products. - 23 - TABLE OF CONTENTS Where necessary, obtaining medical device registrations and clearances could require us to provide documentation concerning product manufacturing and clinical utility, to make design, specification and manufacturing process modifications to meet standards imposed on medical device companies, and to modify our marketing claims regarding the registered product. While we have successfully registered the Galvanic Spa facial unit as a medical device in Indonesia, Thailand and Colombia, because medical device regulations vary widely from country to country, there can be no assurance we will not face challenges or delays in obtaining clearance in other markets, including the United States, or that we will be able to make any required modifications or provide documentation necessary to obtain clearance. If we obtain such medical device clearance in order to sell a product in one market, such clearance may be used as precedent for requiring similar approval in another market. Such additional requirements could negatively impact the cost associated with manufacturing and selling the Galvanic Spa System as a non-medical device in those markets. Laws and regulations may prohibit or severely restrict direct selling and cause our revenue and profitability to decline, and regulators could adopt new regulations that harm our business. Various government agencies throughout the world regulate direct sales practices. Laws and regulations in Japan, South Korea and China are particularly burdensome. These laws and regulations are generally intended to prevent fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as "pyramid" schemes, that compensate participants primarily for recruiting additional participants without significant emphasis on product sales. The laws and regulations in our current markets often: • impose order cancellations, product returns, inventory buy-backs and cooling-off rights for distributors and consumers; • require us, or our distributors, to register with government agencies; • impose caps on the amount of commissions we can pay; • impose reporting requirements; and • require that we ensure, among other things, that our distributors maintain levels of product sales to qualify to receive commissions and that our distributors are being compensated for sales of products and not for recruiting others. Complying with these widely varying and sometimes inconsistent rules and regulations can be difficult and may require significant resources. The laws and regulations governing direct selling are modified from time to time, and, like other direct selling companies, we are subject from time to time to government investigations in our various markets related to our direct selling activities. This can require us to make changes to our business model and aspects of our sales compensation plan in the markets impacted by such changes and investigations. In addition, countries where we currently do business could change their laws or regulations to prohibit direct selling. If we are unable to continue business in existing markets or commence operations in new markets because of these laws, our revenue and profitability may decline. - 24 - TABLE OF CONTENTS Challenges to the form of our network marketing system could harm our business. We may be subject to challenges by government regulators regarding the form of our network marketing system. Legal and regulatory requirements concerning the direct-selling industry generally do not include "bright line" rules and are inherently fact-based and subject to interpretation. As a result, regulators and courts have discretion in their application of these laws and regulations, and the enforcement or interpretation of these laws and regulations by governmental agencies or courts can change. We could also be subject to challenges by private parties in civil actions. We are aware of recent civil actions against some of our competitors in the United States, including one involving a significant settlement. Recent allegations by short-sellers regarding the legality of multi-level marketing have also created intense public scrutiny of our industry. From time to time, we receive formal and informal inquiries from various government regulatory authorities about our business and our compliance with local laws and regulations. If we are not able to resolve regulatory reviews to the satisfaction of the applicable governmental agencies, or there are any new regulatory challenges or civil actions regarding our business or others in our industry, our business could be harmed if our network marketing program is found not to be in compliance with applicable law or regulations, such actions result in the imposition of any fines or damages on our business, create adverse publicity, increase scrutiny of our industry, detrimentally affect our efforts to recruit or motivate distributors and attract consumers, or interpret laws in a manner inconsistent with our current business practices. Government regulations relating to the marketing and advertising of our products and services may restrict, inhibit or delay our ability to sell our products and harm our business. Government authorities regulate advertising and product claims regarding the efficacy and benefits of our products. These regulatory authorities typically require adequate and reliable scientific substantiation to support any marketing claims. What constitutes such reliable scientific substantiation can vary widely from market to market and there is no assurance that the research and development efforts that we undertake to support our claims will be deemed adequate for any particular product or claim. If we are unable to show adequate and reliable scientific substantiation for our product claims, or our marketing materials or distributor marketing materials make claims that exceed the scope of allowed claims for dietary supplements, cosmetics or tools that we offer our distributors, the FDA or other regulatory authorities could take enforcement action requiring us to revise our marketing materials, amend our claims or even stop selling the products which could harm our business. For example, the FDA recently issued warning letters to several cosmetic companies alleging improper structure/function claims regarding their cosmetic products, including, for example, product claims regarding gene activity, cellular rejuvenation, and rebuilding collagen. There is a degree of subjectivity in determining whether a claim is an improper structure/function claim. Given this subjectivity and our research and development focus on the sources of aging and gene expression, there is a risk that we could receive a warning letter, be required to modify our product claims or take other actions to satisfy the FDA if the FDA determines any of our marketing materials include improper structure/function claims for our cosmetic products. In addition, plaintiffs' lawyers have filed class action lawsuits against some of our competitors after our competitors received these FDA warning letters. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to governmental actions or class action lawsuits, which could harm our business. In the United States, effective December 1, 2009, the FTC approved revisions to its Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising, ("Guides"), that require disclosure of material connections between an endorser and the company they are endorsing and generally do not allow marketing using atypical results. Our distributors have historically used testimonials and "before and after" photos to market and sell some of our popular products such as our ageLOC Galvanic Spa systems and ageLOC Transformation anti-aging skin care system. We intend to continue to use testimonials for our popular products, including weight loss products. In highly regulated and scrutinized product categories such as weight loss if we or our distributors fail to comply with the Guides, the FTC could bring an enforcement action against us and we could be fined and/or forced to alter our marketing materials. - 25 - TABLE OF CONTENTS Regulations governing the registration or pre-approval of our products could harm our business. Our products are subject to numerous domestic and foreign government agencies' and authorities' laws and extensive regulations governing the ingredients and products that may be marketed without pre-market approval and/or registration as a drug. Many of these laws and regulations involve a high level of subjectivity, are inherently fact-based and subject to interpretation, and vary significantly from market to market. These laws and regulations can also limit the claims we can make regarding our products and often restrict our ability to introduce products or ingredients into one or more markets. At times these laws and regulations may delay or prevent us altogether from launching a product in a market, require us to reformulate a product or limit or amend the claims made regarding a product. If these laws and regulations further restrict, inhibit or delay our ability to introduce or market our products or limit the claims we are able to make regarding our products, our business may be harmed. For example, in the United States some legislators and industry critics have pushed for years to increase regulatory authority by the FDA over nutritional supplements. In 2011 the FDA proposed draft guidance to clarify the FDA's interpretation of the dietary ingredient notification requirements. This draft guidance is not final yet but appears to indicate that the FDA is expanding its definition of what is considered a "new dietary ingredient" in the United States. The industry is providing comments and working with the FDA to modify this guidance, however, if enacted in final form as proposed this guidance could impose new and significant regulatory barriers for our nutritional supplement products or unique ingredients, which could delay or inhibit our ability to formulate, introduce and sell nutritional supplements as we have in the past. We face similar pressures in our other markets, including Europe, which is expected to adopt additional regulations setting new limits on acceptable maximum levels of vitamins and minerals. In Europe, for example, we are unable to market supplements that contain ingredients that were not marketed in Europe prior to May 1997 ("novel foods") without going through an extensive registration and pre-market approval process. Such regulations in any given market can also limit our ability to import products and can delay product launches as we go through the registration and approval process for those products. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could face enforcement action against us and we could be fined, forced to alter or stop selling our products. New regulations governing the introduction, marketing and sale of our products to consumers could harm our business. Our operations could be harmed if new laws or regulations are enacted that restrict our ability to market or distribute our products or impose additional burdens or requirements on us in order to continue selling our products. We have observed a general increase in regulatory activity and activism in the United States and across many markets globally where we operate and the regulatory landscape is becoming more complex with increasingly strict requirements. If this trend continues, we may find it necessary to alter some of the ways we have traditionally marketed our products in order to stay in compliance with a changing regulatory landscape and this could add to the costs of our operations and/or have an adverse impact on our business. - 26 - TABLE OF CONTENTS Our operations could be harmed if we are found not to be in compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices. In the United States, FDA regulations on Good Manufacturing Practices and Adverse Event Reporting requirements for the nutritional supplement industry require us and our vendors to maintain good manufacturing processes, including stringent vendor qualifications, ingredient identification, manufacturing controls and record keeping. The ingredient identification requirement, which requires us to confirm the levels, identity and potency of ingredients listed on our product labels within a narrow range, is particularly burdensome and difficult for us with respect to a product like LifePak Nano, which contains as many as 36 different ingredients. We are also required to report serious adverse events associated with consumer use of our products. Our operations could be harmed if regulatory authorities make determinations that we, or our vendors, are not in compliance with these regulations or public reporting of adverse events harms our reputation for quality and safety. A finding of noncompliance may result in administrative warnings, penalties or actions impacting our ability to continue selling certain products. In addition, compliance with these regulations has increased and may further increase the cost of manufacturing certain of our products as we work with our vendors to assure they are qualified and in compliance. The loss of suppliers or shortages in ingredients could harm our business. We acquire ingredients and products from two suppliers that each currently manufactures a significant portion of our Nu Skin personal care products. In addition, we currently rely on two suppliers for a majority of our Pharmanex nutritional supplement products. A loss of any of these suppliers and any difficulties in finding or transitioning to alternative suppliers could harm our business. In addition, we obtain some of our products, including our ageLOC Galvanic Spa systems, from sole suppliers that own or control the product formulations, ingredients, or other intellectual property rights associated with such products. We also license the right to distribute some of our products from third parties. In the event we are unable to renew these contracts, we may need to discontinue some products or develop substitute products, which could harm our revenue. In addition, if we experience supply shortages or regulatory impediments with respect to the raw materials and ingredients we use in our products, we may need to seek alternative supplies or suppliers and may experience difficulties in finding ingredients that are comparable in quality and price. Some of our nutritional products, including g3 juice, incorporate natural products that are only harvested once a year and may have limited supplies. If demand exceeds forecasts, we may have difficulties in obtaining additional supplies to meet the excess demand until the next growing season. If we are unable to successfully respond to such issues, our business could be harmed. Product diversion to certain markets, including China, may have a negative impact on our business. From time to time, we see our products being sold through online or other distribution channels in certain markets. Although we have taken steps to try to control this activity, particularly for products sold in China, product diversion continues to be a challenge. Product diversion causes confusion regarding our distribution channels and negatively impacts our distributors' ability to sell our products. It also creates a negative impression regarding the viability of the business opportunity for our distributors and sales representatives, which can harm our ability to recruit new distributors and sales representatives. Product diversion schemes may also involve illegal importation, investment or other activities. If we are unable to effectively address this issue or if diversion increases, our business could be harmed. - 27 - TABLE OF CONTENTS Changes to our sales compensation plan could be viewed negatively by some distributors, could fail to achieve desired long-term results and have a negative impact on revenue. Our sales compensation plan includes some components that differ from market to market. We modify components of our sales compensation plan from time to time to keep our sales compensation plan competitive and attractive to existing and potential distributors, to address changing market dynamics, to provide incentives to distributors that we believe will help grow our business, to conform to local regulations and to address other business needs. Because of the size of our distributor force and the complexity of our sales compensation plan, it is difficult to predict how such changes will be viewed by distributors and whether such changes will achieve their desired results. For example, certain changes we made to our sales compensation plan in the past, which were successful in several markets, did not achieve anticipated results in certain other markets and negatively impacted our business. Production difficulties, quality control problems and inaccurate forecasting could harm our business. Production difficulties and quality control problems and our reliance on third party suppliers to deliver quality products in a timely manner could harm our business. Occasionally, we have experienced production difficulties with respect to our products, including the import or export of ingredients and delivery of products that do not meet our specifications and quality control standards. These quality problems have in the past, and could in the future, result in stock outages or shortages in our markets with respect to such products, harming our sales and creating inventory write-offs for unusable products. Adverse publicity concerning our business, marketing plan, products or people could harm our business and reputation. Growth in our distributors and consumers and our results of operations can be particularly impacted by adverse publicity regarding us, the nature of our sales network, our products or the actions of our distributors and employees. Specifically, we are susceptible to adverse publicity concerning: • suspicions about the legality and ethics of network marketing; • the safety or effectiveness of ingredients in our or our competitors' products; • recent allegations that four of our products contained lead amounts in excess of amounts that would require consumer warnings in California under Proposition 65; • regulatory investigations of us, our competitors and our respective products; • the actions of our current or former distributors and employees; and • public perceptions of the direct selling industry or the nutritional or personal care industry generally. In addition, in the past we have experienced negative publicity that has harmed our business in connection with regulatory investigations and inquiries. Critics of our industry, short sellers and other individuals who want to pursue an agenda, have in the past and may in the future utilize the Internet, the press and other means to publish criticisms of the industry, our company and our competitors, or make allegations regarding our business and operations, or the business and operations of our competitors. We or others in our industry may receive similar negative publicity or allegations in the future, and it may harm our business and reputation. - 28 - TABLE OF CONTENTS Non-compliance with anti-corruption laws could harm our business. Our international operations are subject to anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"). Any allegations that we are not in compliance with anti-corruption laws may require us to dedicate time and resources to an internal investigation of the allegations or may result in a government investigation. Any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with existing anti-corruption laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, and other penalties. Although we have implemented anti-corruption policies, controls and training globally to protect against violation of these laws, we cannot be certain that these efforts will be effective. We are aware that one of our competitors is under investigation in the United States for allegations that its employees violated the FCPA in China and other markets. If this investigation causes adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of our industry, our business could be harmed. Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by political, legal, tax and regulatory risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is exposed to risks associated with our international operations, including: • the possibility that a foreign government might ban or severely restrict our business method of direct selling, or that local civil unrest, political instability or changes in diplomatic or trade relationships might disrupt our operations in an international market; • the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems in certain areas where we operate; • the presence of high inflation in the economies of international markets in which we operate; • the possibility that a government authority might impose legal, tax or other financial burdens on us or our distributors, due, for example, to the structure of our operations in various markets; • the possibility that a government authority might challenge the status of our distributors as independent contractors or impose employment or social taxes on our distributors; and • the possibility that governments may impose currency remittance restrictions limiting our ability to repatriate cash. We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of the services provided by any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior and regional management, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We currently have expatriates serving in key management positions in certain markets, including Japan. Our senior and regional management employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. In addition, we will need to continue to attract and develop qualified management personnel to sustain growth in our markets. If we are not able to successfully retain existing personnel and identify, hire and integrate new personnel, our business and growth prospects could be harmed. - 29 - TABLE OF CONTENTS Inability of products and other initiatives to gain or maintain distributor and market acceptance could harm our business. Our operating results could be adversely affected if our business opportunities and incentives, products and other initiatives do not generate sufficient enthusiasm and economic incentive to retain our existing distributors or to sponsor new distributors on a sustained basis. Factors that could affect our ability to continue to introduce new products include, among others, government regulations, the inability to attract and retain qualified research and development staff, the termination of third-party research and collaborative arrangements, proprietary protections of competitors that may limit our ability to offer comparable products and the difficulties in anticipating changes in consumer tastes and buying preferences. In addition, in our more mature markets, one of the challenges we face is keeping Sales Leaders with established businesses and high income levels motivated and actively engaged in business building activities and in developing new Sales Leaders. There can be no assurance that our initiatives will continue to generate excitement among our distributors in the long-term or that planned initiatives will be successful in maintaining distributor activity and productivity or in motivating Sales Leaders to remain engaged in business building and developing new Sales Leaders. Some initiatives may have unanticipated negative impacts on our distributors, particularly changes to our sales compensation plan. The introduction of a new product or key initiative can also negatively impact other product lines to the extent our Sales Leaders focus their efforts on the new product or initiative. In addition, if any of our products fail to gain distributor acceptance, we could see an increase in returns. The loss of key distributors could negatively impact our growth and our revenue. As of December 31, 2012, we had a global network of nearly 950,000 Actives. More than 51,000 of our Actives were Sales Leaders. Less than 1,000 Sales Leaders occupied the highest distributor level under our global sales compensation plan as of that date. These Sales Leaders, together with their extensive sales networks, generate substantially all of our revenue. As a result, the loss of a high-level Sales Leader or a group of leading Sales Leaders, whether by their own choice or through disciplinary actions by us for violations of our policies and procedures, could negatively impact our growth and our revenue. Government authorities may question our tax positions or transfer pricing policies or change their laws in a manner that could increase our effective tax rate or otherwise harm our business. As a U.S. company doing business in international markets through subsidiaries, we are subject to various tax and intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between our company and our subsidiaries. From time to time, we are audited by tax regulators in the United States and in our foreign markets. If regulators challenge our tax positions, corporate structure, transfer pricing mechanisms or intercompany transfers, we may be subject to fines and payment of back taxes, our effective tax rate may increase and our operations may be harmed. Tax rates vary from country to country, and, if tax authorities determine that our profits in one jurisdiction may need to be increased, we may not be able to fully utilize all foreign tax credits that are generated, which will increase our effective tax rate. For example, our federal corporate income tax rate in the United States is 35%. If our profitability in a higher tax jurisdiction, such as Japan where our tax rate in 2012 was approximately 46%, increases disproportionately to the rest of our business, our effective tax rate may increase. The various customs, exchange control and transfer pricing laws are continually changing and are subject to the interpretation of government agencies. We have experienced increased efforts by customs authorities in some countries to reclassify our products or otherwise increase the level of duties we pay on our products. Despite our efforts to be aware of and comply with such laws, and changes to and interpretations thereof, there is a risk that we may not continue to operate in compliance with such laws. We may need to adjust our operating procedures in response to such changes, and as a result, our business may suffer. In addition, due to the international nature of our business, we are subject from time to time to reviews and audits by foreign taxing authorities of other jurisdictions in which we conduct business throughout the world. - 30 - TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be held responsible for certain taxes or assessments relating to the activities of our distributors, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our distributors are subject to taxation, and in some instances, legislation or governmental agencies impose an obligation on us to collect taxes, such as value added taxes, and to maintain appropriate records. In addition, we are subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of being responsible for social security and similar taxes with respect to our distributors. In the event that local laws and regulations or the interpretation of local laws and regulations change to require us to treat our independent distributors as employees, or that our distributors are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rather than independent contractors under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for social security and related taxes in those jurisdictions, plus any related assessments and penalties, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. If our distributors were deemed to be employees rather than independent contractors, we would also face the threat of increased vicarious liability for their actions. The loss of or a disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2012, our principal properties consist of distribution centers where offices are located and where finished merchandise is packed and shipped to distributors in fulfillment of their orders, our worldwide headquarters, three research and development facilities and manufacturing facilities and approximately 40 stores in China. Additionally, we also use third party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our products. As a company engaged in manufacturing, distribution and research and development on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, fires, strikes and other labor or industrial disputes, disruptions in logistics or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing or distribution sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory or government issues, as well as natural disasters, pandemics, border disputes, acts of terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. For example, the earthquake and tsunami in 2011 disrupted our operations in Japan and negatively impacted our operating results. These risks may be exacerbated by our efforts to increase facility consolidation covering our manufacturing, distribution and supply footprints or if we are unable to successfully enhance our disaster recovery planning. The loss of, or damage to, any of our facilities or centers, or that of our third party manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions to transportation channels that we use to distribute our products to international warehouses may adversely affect our margins and profitability in those markets. We may experience disruptions to the transportation channels used to distribute our products, including increased airport and shipping port congestion, a lack of transportation capacity, increased fuel expenses, and a shortage of manpower. Disruptions in our container shipments may result in increased costs, including the additional use of airfreight to meet demand. Although we have not recently experienced significant shipping disruptions, we continue to watch for signs of upcoming congestion. Congestion to ports can affect previously negotiated contracts with shipping companies, resulting in unexpected increases in shipping costs and reduction in our net sales. - 31 - TABLE OF CONTENTS Our markets are intensely competitive, and market conditions and the strengths of competitors may harm our business. The markets for our products are intensely competitive. Our results of operations may be harmed by market conditions and competition in the future. Many competitors have much greater name recognition and financial resources than we have, which may give them a competitive advantage. For example, our Nu Skin products compete directly with branded, premium retail products. We also compete with other direct selling organizations. Because of regulatory restrictions concerning claims about the efficacy of personal care products and dietary supplements, we may have difficulty differentiating our products from our competitors' products, and competing products entering the personal care and nutritional market could harm our revenue. We also compete with other direct selling companies to attract and retain our distributors and consumers. Some of these competitors have a longer operating history and greater visibility, name recognition and financial resources than we do. Some of our competitors have also adopted and could continue to adopt some of our successful business strategies, including our global sales compensation plan. Consequently, to successfully compete in this industry, and attract and retain our distributors and consumers, we must ensure that our business opportunities and sales compensation plan is financially rewarding. We believe we have significant competitive advantages, but we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to successfully compete in this industry. We may incur product liability claims that could harm our business. We sell products for human consumption and use. Our dietary supplement products consist of vitamins, minerals and botanicals and other ingredients that are classified as foods or dietary supplements. Our personal care products are cosmetic and other beautifying products intended to be used on the body and skin. These products are not generally subject to pre-market approval or registration processes so we cannot rely upon a government safety panel to qualify or approve our products for use, and some ingredients may not have long histories of human consumption or use. We rely upon published and unpublished safety information including clinical studies on ingredients used in our products and conduct our own clinical studies on some key ingredients and products, but not all products. A product may be safe for the general population when consumed or used as directed but could cause an adverse reaction for a person who has a health condition or allergies, or who is taking a prescription medication. While we include what we believe are adequate instructions and warnings and we have historically had low numbers of reported reactions, previously unknown adverse reactions could occur. As a result of the type of products that we sell we may be subject to various product liability claims, including that the products failed to meet quality or manufacturing specifications, contain contaminants, include inadequate instructions as to their proper use, or the products include inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances or for persons with health conditions or allergies. Product liability claims could increase our costs, and adversely affect our business and financial results. As we continue to offer an increasing number of new products through larger scale limited-time offers our product liability risk may increase. If our distributors or employees provide improper or inappropriate advice regarding our products, their appropriate use or safety, we may be subject to additional product liability. We have elected to self-insure our product liability risks. We continue to periodically evaluate whether we can and should obtain product liability insurance. Based upon our current approach to product liability risk management if any of our products are found to cause any injury or damage or we become subject to product liability claims, we will be subject to the full amount of liability associated with any injuries or damages. This liability could be substantial and may exceed our existing reserves and harm our business. - 32 - TABLE OF CONTENTS We are involved, and may become involved in the future, in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could adversely affect our financial results. We are and may in the future become party to litigation. In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly affect financial results. We are currently vigorously contesting certain of these litigation claims. However, it is not possible to predict the final resolution of the litigation to which we currently are or may in the future become party to, and the impact of certain of these matters on our business, results of operations and financial condition could be material. We are currently involved in two separate disputes with customs authorities in Japan with respect to duty assessments on several of our Pharmanex nutritional products. The first dispute relates to additional customs assessments made by Yokohama Customs for the period of October 2002 through June 2005. In March 2011, the Tokyo District Court upheld the additional assessments. As a result of this decision, we recorded an expense for the full amount of the disputed assessments, or $32.8 million, in the first quarter of 2011. We appealed the matter to the Tokyo High Court, which upheld the decision of the Tokyo District Court in November 2012. We continue to disagree with this decision and have appealed the matter to the Supreme Court of Japan. The second dispute in Japan relates to additional customs assessments made by Yokohama Customs for the period of October 2006 through September 2009 in connection with post-importation audits, as well as the disputed portion of our import duties from October 2009 to the present, which we have or will hold in bond or pay under protest. The aggregate amount of these assessments and disputed duties was 4.0 billion Japanese yen as of December 31, 2012 (approximately $46.7 million), net of any recovery of consumption taxes. In addition, we are currently being required to post a bond or make a deposit equal to the difference between our declared duties and the amount the customs authorities have determined we should be paying on all current imports. We are now pursuing this matter in Tokyo District Court. Any adverse rulings in these matters could materially impact our results. Please refer to Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" for more information regarding these litigation matters. In addition, our intellectual property may infringe on the rights of others, resulting in costly litigation. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, there has been an increase in the filing of suits alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, which pressure defendants into entering settlement arrangements quickly to dispose of such suits, regardless of their merit. Other companies or individuals may allege that we, or our distributors, consumers, licensees or other parties indemnified by us infringe on their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, defending such intellectual property litigation can be costly, distract management's attention and resources, and the outcome is inherently uncertain. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. Any of these results may adversely affect our financial condition. - 33 - TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our product innovations and our brand equity. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality and other types of agreements with our employees, distributors, consumers, suppliers and other parties, to establish, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries, including emerging markets such as China, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our patents and trademarks may be substantial. We have filed patent applications to protect our intellectual property rights in our new technologies, however, there can be no assurance that our patent applications will be approved, that any patents issued will adequately protect our intellectual property, or that such patents will not be challenged by third parties or found by a judicial authority to be invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, many of our products rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties on reasonable terms or at all. To enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties, such as patent infringement suits or interference proceedings. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our financial condition. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. Our employees may leave to work for competitors. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may be disclosed to or otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our current or former employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and adversely affect our financial condition. We may be subject to claims that we, or our employees, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of our employees' former employers. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other personal care product or nutritional supplement companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent that our employees are involved in research areas that are similar to those in which they were involved with their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. - 34 - TABLE OF CONTENTS Any future acquisitions may expose us to additional risks. From time to time we review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. The financing for any of these acquisitions could dilute the interests of our stockholders, result in an increase in our indebtedness or both. Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses and disruption to our direct selling channel; • diversion of management's attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with our suppliers, distributors and consumers; and • risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience. Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms. Any failure of our internal controls over financial reporting or our compliance efforts could harm our stock price and our financial and operating results or could result in fines or penalties. We have implemented internal controls to help ensure the accuracy of our financial reporting and have implemented compliance policies and programs to help ensure that our employees and distributors comply with applicable laws and regulations. Our internal audit team regularly audits our internal controls and various aspects of our business and we regularly assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. There can be no assurance, however, that these internal or external assessments and audits will identify all significant or material weaknesses in our internal controls. Any failure to correct a weakness in internal controls could result in the disclosure of a material weakness. If a material weakness results in a material misstatement in our financial results, we may also have to restate our financial statements. From time to time, we initiate further investigations into our business operations based on the results of these audits or complaints, questions, or allegations made by employees or other parties regarding our business practices and operations. In addition, our business and operations may be investigated by applicable government authorities. In the event any of these investigations identify material violations of applicable laws by our employees or our distributors, we could be subject to adverse publicity, fines, penalties or loss of licenses or permits. System failures could harm our business. With global operations and a complex sales compensation plan, our business is highly dependent on efficiently functioning information technology systems. Our systems may be damaged or disrupted by fires, floods, earthquakes or other natural disasters, telecommunications failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. We have adopted and implemented a Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery Plan. Our data is archived and stored at third-party secure sites and we have recovery sites for certain critical data and operations. Growth in our business could also strain our systems. There can be no assurance that our systems will not be significantly damaged or disrupted or that our systems will be adequate to meet our future business needs. - 35 - TABLE OF CONTENTS Epidemics and other crises could negatively impact our business. Due to the person-to-person nature of direct selling, our results of operations could be harmed if the fear of a communicable and rapidly spreading disease or other crises such as natural disasters result in travel restrictions or cause people to avoid group meetings or gatherings or interaction with other people. For example, a SARS epidemic in Asia negatively impacted our revenue in 2003. It is difficult to predict the impact on our business, if any, of a recurrence of SARS, the emergence of new epidemics, or other crises. In addition, most of our Pharmanex nutritional supplement revenue is generated from products that are encapsulated in bovine- and/or porcine-sourced gel capsules. If we experience production difficulties, quality control problems, or shortages in supply in connection with bovine or porcine related health concerns, this could result in additional risk of product shortages or write-offs of inventory. We may be unable to introduce our products in some markets if we are unable to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or if any product ingredients are prohibited, which could harm our business. The market price of our Class A common stock is subject to significant fluctuations due to a number of factors that are beyond our control. Our Class A common stock closed at $30.08 per share on January 31, 2011 and closed at $42.36 per share on January 31, 2013. During this two-year period, our Class A common stock traded as low as $27.50 per share and as high as $62.02 per share. Many factors, including some we may be unable to control, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fall. Some of these factors include: • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • the sale of shares of Class A common stock by significant stockholders; • general trends in the market for our products; • acquisitions by us or our competitors; • economic or currency exchange issues in markets in which we operate; • changes in estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; • speculative trading, including short selling and options trading; • rumors or publicity related to our business, products or industry; and • general business and political conditions. Broad market fluctuations could also lower the market price of our Class A common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 36 - TABLE OF CONTENTS 