Item 1A. Risk Factors. In the discussion of risk factors set forth below, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "we," "our" and "us" refer to the Company. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K and other documents filed by us and/or our subsidiaries with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating OGE Energy and its subsidiaries. Such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us or our subsidiaries. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business operations. 17REGULATORY RISKS OG&E's profitability depends to a large extent on the ability to fully recover its costs from its customers and there may be changes in the regulatory environment that impair its ability to recover costs from its customers. OG&E is subject to comprehensive regulation by several Federal and state utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences its operating environment and its ability to fully recover its costs from utility customers. Recoverability of any under recovered amounts from OG&E's customers due to a rise in fuel costs is a significant risk. The utility commissions in the states where OG&E operates regulate many aspects of its utility operations including siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that OG&E can charge customers. The profitability of the utility operations is dependent on OG&E's ability to fully recover costs related to providing energy and utility services to its customers. In recent years, the regulatory environments in which OG&E operates have received an increased amount of attention. It is possible that there could be changes in the regulatory environment that would impair OG&E's ability to fully recover costs historically paid by OG&E's customers. State utility commissions generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met. OG&E cannot assure that the OCC, APSC and the FERC will grant rate increases in the future or in the amounts requested, and they could instead lower OG&E's rates. OG&E is unable to predict the impact on its operating results from the future regulatory activities of any of the agencies that regulate OG&E. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on OG&E's results of operations. OG&E's rates are subject to rate regulation by the states of Oklahoma and Arkansas, as well as by a Federal agency, whose regulatory paradigms and goals may not be consistent. OG&E is currently a vertically integrated electric utility and most of its revenue results from the sale of electricity to retail customers subject to bundled rates that are approved by the applicable state utility commission and from the sale of electricity to wholesale customers subject to rates and other matters approved by the FERC. OG&E operates in Oklahoma and western Arkansas and is subject to rate regulation by the OCC and the APSC, in addition to the FERC. Exposure to inconsistent state and Federal regulatory standards may limit our ability to operate profitably. Further alteration of the regulatory landscape in which we operate, including a change in our return on equity, may harm our financial position and results of operations. Costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations are significant and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations, consolidated financial position, or liquidity. We are subject to extensive Federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife conservation, natural resources and health and safety that could, among other things, restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or the use of certain fuels required for the production of electricity and/or require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase costs. There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations and those costs may be even more significant in the future. As discussed in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Laws and Regulations", in 2011, the EPA accepted a portion of the Oklahoma SIP for regional haze, which requires the installation of low NOX burners on OG&E's affected units within five years at a cost of approximately $80 million. The EPA rejected Oklahoma's SO2 BART determination with respect to the four affected coal-fired units at the Sooner and Muskogee generating stations and issued a FIP in its place. The SO2 emissions standards in the EPA's FIP could require the installation of Dry Scrubbers or fuel switching. OG&E estimates that installing such Dry Scrubbers could cost more than $1.0 billion. OG&E, the state of Oklahoma and other parties, filed an appeal to challenge this determination, which has delayed the implementation of the regional haze rule in Oklahoma. Although the court initially stayed implementation of EPA’s FIP, it ultimately issued a decision affirming the FIP, and unless the Supreme Court accepts an appeal of the case, the FIP will require installation of Dry Scrubbers or fuel switching with a deadline sometime in 2018 or 2019. In response to recent regulatory and judicial decisions, emissions of greenhouse gases including, most significantly, carbon dioxide could be restricted in the future as a result of Federal or state legal requirements or litigation relating to greenhouse gas emissions. If mandatory reductions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases are required in the future, this could result in significant additional compliance costs that would affect our future consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. The EPA has started a process to implement carbon dioxide 18emission limitations for existing electric generating units, and neither the outcome of the rule making process nor the timing of any required expenditures resulting from the EPA rule making process can be predicted with any certainty at this time.There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our operations due to our handling of natural gas, air emissions related to our operations and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. These activities are subject to stringent and complex Federal, state and local laws and regulations that can restrict or impact OG&E's business activities in many ways, such as restricting the way it can handle or dispose of their wastes or requiring remedial action to mitigate pollution conditions that may be caused by their operations or that are attributable to former operators. OG&E may be unable to recover these costs from insurance. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. For a further discussion of environmental matters that may affect the Company, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Environmental Laws and Regulations."We may not be able to recover the costs of our substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions. OG&E's business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades and retrofits and modernizing existing infrastructure as well as other initiatives. Significant portions of OG&E's facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements or to provide reliable operations. OG&E currently provides service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. If these regulatory commissions do not approve adjustments to the rates OG&E charges, it would not be able to recover the costs associated with its planned extensive investment. This could adversely affect OG&E's financial position and results of operations. While OG&E may seek to limit the impact of any denied recovery by attempting to reduce the scope of its capital investment, there can no assurance as to the effectiveness of any such mitigation efforts, particularly with respect to previously incurred costs and commitments. Our jurisdictions have fuel clauses that permit us to recover fuel costs through rates without a general rate case. While prudent capital investment and variable fuel costs each generally warrant recovery, in practical terms our regulators could limit the amount or timing of increased costs that we would recover through higher rates. Any such limitation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The regional power market in which OG&E operates has changing transmission regulatory structures, which may affect the transmission assets and related revenues and expenses.OG&E currently owns and operates transmission and generation facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. OG&E is a member of the SPP regional transmission organization and has transferred operational authority (but not ownership) of OG&E's transmission facilities to the SPP. The SPP implemented a regional energy imbalance service market on February 1, 2007. OG&E participates in the SPP energy imbalance service market to aid in the optimization of its physical assets to serve OG&E's customers. OG&E has not participated in the SPP energy imbalance service market for any speculative trading activities. The SPP purchases and sales are not allocated to individual customers. OG&E records the hourly sales to the SPP at market rates in Operating Revenues and the hourly purchases from the SPP at market rates in Cost of Sales in its Consolidated Financial Statements. OG&E's revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities may be adversely affected by changes in the organization, operation and regulation by the FERC or the SPP, including the forthcoming SPP integrated marketplace, which is scheduled to begin operation in March 2014. Increased competition resulting from restructuring efforts could have a significant financial impact on us and OG&E and consequently decrease our revenue. We have been and will continue to be affected by competitive changes to the utility and energy industries. Significant changes already have occurred and additional changes have been proposed to the wholesale electric market. Although retail restructuring efforts in Oklahoma and Arkansas have been postponed for the time being, if such efforts were renewed, retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy service could have a significant financial impact on us due to possible impairments of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins and/or increased costs of capital. Any such restructuring could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot predict when we will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can we predict the impact of these changes on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 19Events that are beyond our control have increased the level of public and regulatory scrutiny of our industry. Governmental and market reactions to these events may have negative impacts on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and access to capital. As a result of accounting irregularities at public companies in general, and energy companies in particular, and investigations by governmental authorities into energy trading activities, public companies, including those in the regulated and unregulated utility business, have been under an increased amount of public and regulatory scrutiny and suspicion. The accounting irregularities have caused regulators and legislators to review current accounting practices, financial disclosures and relationships between companies and their independent auditors. The capital markets and rating agencies also have increased their level of scrutiny. We believe that we are complying with all applicable laws and accounting standards, but it is difficult or impossible to predict or control what effect these types of events may have on our business, consolidated financial position, cash flows or access to the capital markets. It is unclear what additional laws or regulations may develop, and we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any future changes in accounting regulations or practices in general with respect to public companies, the energy industry or our operations specifically. Any new accounting standards could affect the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. These changes in accounting standards could lead to negative impacts on reported earnings or decreases in assets or increases in liabilities that could, in turn, affect our results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to substantial utility and energy regulation by governmental agencies. Compliance with current and future utility and energy regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits and certifications may result in significant costs to us. We are subject to substantial regulation from Federal, state and local regulatory agencies. We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain permits, approvals and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of our businesses, including customer rates, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices and the operation of generating facilities. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of these agencies. In compliance with the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC approved the North American Electric Reliability Corporation as the national energy reliability organization. The North American Electric Reliability Corporation is responsible for the development and enforcement of mandatory reliability and cyber security standards for the wholesale electric power system. OG&E's plan is to comply with all applicable standards and to expediently correct a violation should it occur. The North American Electric Reliability Corporation has authority to assess penalties up to $1.0 million per day per violation for noncompliance. In order to comply with new or updated security regulations, we may be required to make changes to our current operations which could also result in additional expenses. OG&E is subject to a North American Electric Reliability Corporation compliance audit every three years as well as periodic spot check audits and cannot predict the outcome of those audits. OPERATIONAL RISKS Our results of operations may be impacted by disruptions beyond our control. We are exposed to risks related to performance of contractual obligations by our suppliers. We are dependent on coal and natural gas for much of our electric generating capacity. We rely on suppliers to deliver coal and natural gas in accordance with short and long-term contracts. We have certain supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal and natural gas to us. The suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. In addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal and natural gas to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. Deliveries may be subject to short-term interruptions or reductions due to various factors, including transportation problems, weather and availability of equipment. Failure or delay by our suppliers of coal and natural gas deliveries could disrupt our ability to deliver electricity and require us to incur additional expenses to meet the needs of our customers. Also, because our generation and transmission systems are part of an interconnected regional grid, we face the risk of possible loss of business due to a disruption or black-out caused by an event (severe storm, generator or transmission facility outage) on a neighboring system or the actions of a neighboring utility. Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 20OG&E's electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. OG&E owns and operates coal-fired, natural gas-fired and wind-powered generating facilities. Operation of electric generating facilities involves risks that can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Included among these risks are: •increased prices for fuel and fuel transportation as existing contracts expire;•facility shutdowns due to a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes or interruptions in fuel supply;•operator error or safety related stoppages;•disruptions in the delivery of electricity; and•catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences.Economic conditions could negatively impact our business and our results of operations. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. The consequences of a prolonged recession could include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues and future growth. Instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also could affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. Economic conditions may also impact the valuation of certain long-lived assets, including our investment in unconsolidated affiliates, that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Current economic conditions may be exacerbated by insufficient financial sector liquidity leading to potential increased unemployment, which could impact the ability of our customers to pay timely, increase customer bankruptcies, and could lead to increased bad debt. If such circumstances occur, we expect that commercial and industrial customers would be impacted first, with residential customers following. In addition, economic conditions, particularly budget shortfalls, could lead to increased pressure on Federal, state and local governments to raise additional funds, including through increased corporate taxes and/or through delaying, reducing or eliminating tax credits, grants or other incentives, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We are subject to financial risks associated with climate change.Climate change creates financial risk. Potential regulation associated with climate change legislation could pose financial risks to the Company. In addition, to the extent that any climate change adversely affects the national or regional economic health through increased rates caused by the inclusion of additional regulatory imposed costs (carbon dioxide taxes or costs associated with additional regulatory requirements), the Company may be adversely impacted. A declining economy could adversely impact the overall financial health of the Company because of lack of load growth and decreased sales opportunities. To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this could negatively affect our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less than ideal terms and conditions.We are subject to cyber security risks and increased reliance on processes automated by technology.In the regular course of our businesses, we handle a range of sensitive security and customer information. We are subject to laws and rules issued by different agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of this information. A security breach of our information systems such as theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information, including confidential customer information or system operating information, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.OG&E operates in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite implementation of security measures, the technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. Such failures or breaches of the systems could impact the reliability of OG&E's generation, transmission and distribution systems (including smart grid) which may result in a loss of service to customers and also subject OG&E to financial harm due to the significant expense to repair security breaches or system damage. The implementation of OG&E's smart grid program further increases potential risks associated with cyber security attacks. If the technology systems were to fail or be breached and not recovered in a timely way, critical business functions could be impaired and sensitive confidential data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 21Our security procedures, which include among others, virus protection software, cyber security and our business continuity planning, including disaster recovery policies and back-up systems, may not be adequate or implemented properly to fully address the adverse affect of cyber security attacks on our systems, which could adversely impact our operations.Terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks and the magnitude of the threat of future terrorist attacks on the electric utility and natural gas midstream industry in general, and on us in particular, cannot be known. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of supplies and markets for our products, and the possibility that our infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than existing insurance coverage. Weather conditions such as tornadoes, thunderstorms, ice storms, wind storms, and prolonged droughts, as well as seasonal temperature variations may adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. In OG&E's service area, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. As a result, overall operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce our revenues, net income, available cash and borrowing ability. Severe weather, such as tornadoes, thunderstorms, ice storms and wind storms, may cause outages and property damage which may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned, as described above, would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period. In addition, prolonged droughts could cause a lack of sufficient water for use in cooling during the electricity generating process.FINANCIAL RISKSMarket performance, increased retirements, changes in retirement plan regulations and increasing costs associated with our Pension Plan, health care plans and other employee-related benefits may adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We have a Pension Plan that covers a significant amount of our employees hired before December 1, 2009. We also have defined benefit postretirement plans that cover a significant amount of our employees hired prior to February 1, 2000. Assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions with respect to the defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans have a significant impact on our results of operations and funding requirements. Based on our assumptions at December 31, 2013, we expect to continue to make future contributions to maintain required funding levels. It has been our practice in the past to also make voluntary contributions to maintain more prudent funding levels than minimally required. We may continue to make voluntary contributions in the future. These amounts are estimates and may change based on actual stock market performance, changes in interest rates and any changes in governmental regulations. If the employees who participate in the Pension Plan retire when they become eligible for retirement over the next several years, or if our plan experiences adverse market returns on its investments, or if interest rates materially fall, our pension expense and contributions to the plans could rise substantially over historical levels. The timing and number of employees retiring and selecting the lump-sum payment option could result in pension settlement charges that could materially affect our results of operations if we are unable to recover these costs through our electric rates. In addition, assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions, including projected retirements, have a significant impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Those factors are outside of our control. In addition to the costs of our Pension Plan, the costs of providing health care benefits to our employees and retirees have increased substantially in recent years. We believe that our employee benefit costs, including costs related to health care plans for our employees, will continue to rise. The increasing costs and funding requirements with our Pension Plan, health care plans and other employee benefits may adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 22We face certain human resource risks associated with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements. Workforce demographic issues challenge employers nationwide and are of particular concern to the electric utility industry. The median age of utility workers is significantly higher than the national average. Over the next three years, 35 percent of our current employees will be eligible to retire with full pension benefits. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. We are a holding company with our primary assets being investments in our subsidiary and equity investments. We are a holding company and thus our investments in our subsidiary and unconsolidated affiliate, accounted for under the equity method, are our primary assets. Substantially all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiary and unconsolidated affiliate. Consequently, our operating cash flow and our ability to pay our dividends and service our indebtedness depends upon the operating cash flow of our subsidiary and unconsolidated affiliate and the payment of funds by them to us in the form of dividends or distributions. At December 31, 2013, the Company and its subsidiary had outstanding indebtedness and other liabilities of $6.1 billion. Our subsidiary and unconsolidated affiliate are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our indebtedness or to make any funds available for that purpose, whether by dividends or otherwise. In addition, their ability to pay dividends to us depends on any statutory and contractual restrictions that may be applicable to such subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain minimum levels of working capital and other assets. Claims of creditors, including general creditors, of our subsidiary or unconsolidated affiliate on their respective assets will generally have priority over our claims (except to the extent that we may be a creditor of the subsidiaries and our claims are recognized) and claims by our shareowners. In addition, as discussed above, OG&E is regulated by state utility commissions in Oklahoma and Arkansas as well as a Federal regulatory agency which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met. To the extent that the state commissions or Federal regulatory agency attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of OG&E to pay dividends to us, it could adversely affect our ability to continue to pay dividends.Certain provisions in our charter documents have anti-takeover effects. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as the Oklahoma corporations statute, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company. Such provisions, including those regulating the nomination of directors, limiting who may call special stockholders' meetings and eliminating stockholder action by written consent, together with the possible issuance of preferred stock of the Company without stockholder approval, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder's best interest. We and OG&E may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which may increase the risks created by our indebtedness. The terms of the indentures governing our debt securities do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness. If we or OG&E are in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in our revolving credit agreements and the indentures governing our debt securities, we and OG&E may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness. If we or OG&E incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we and they now face may intensify. Any reductions in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs and the cost of maintaining certain contractual relationships or limit our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms. We cannot assure you that any of our current credit ratings or the ratings of our subsidiaries' will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. Our ability to access the commercial paper market could be adversely impacted by a credit ratings downgrade or major market disruptions. Pricing grids associated with our credit facilities could cause annual fees and borrowing rates to increase if an adverse rating impact occurs. The impact of any future downgrade could include an increase in the costs of our short-term borrowings, but a reduction in our credit ratings would not result in any defaults or accelerations. Any future downgrade could also lead to higher long-term borrowing costs and, if below investment grade, would require us to post collateral or letters of credit. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. We have revolving credit agreements for working capital, capital expenditures, including acquisitions, and other corporate purposes. The levels of our debt could have important consequences, including the following: 23•the ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or the financing may not be available on favorable terms;•a portion of cash flows will be required to make interest payments on the debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; and•our debt levels may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.We are exposed to the credit risk of our key customers and counterparties, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers and counterparties could adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to credit risks in our generation, retail distribution and pipeline operations. Credit risk includes the risk that counterparties that owe us money or energy will breach their obligations. If the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected and we could incur losses.RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR INVESTMENT IN ENABLE MIDSTREAM PARTNERSEffective May 1, 2013, OGE Energy does not control Enogex Holdings LLC or Enable, and therefore is not able to cause or prevent certain actions by Enable.Enable has its own governing board, and OGE Energy will not control all of the decisions of that board. Consequently, OGE Energy will be unable solely to cause Enable to take actions that OGE Energy believes would be in our or Enable' best interests. Likewise, OGE Energy will be unable to prevent certain actions of Enable. A significant portion of our earnings and operating cash flows depend on the performance of Enable. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Our operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions we receive from Enable.Our operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions we receive from Enable. The amount of cash it can distribute principally depends upon the amount of cash flow it generates from its operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things. •the fees and gross margins realized with respect to the volume of natural gas and crude oil handled;•the prices of, levels of production of, and demand for natural gas and crude oil;•the volume of natural gas and crude oil gathered, compressed, treated, dehydrated, processed, fractionated, transported and stored;•the relationship among prices for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil;•cash calls and settlements of hedging positions;•margin requirements on open price risk management assets and liabilities;•the level of competition from other midstream energy companies;•adverse effects of governmental and environmental regulation;•the level of operation and maintenance expenses and general and administrative costs; and•prevailing economic conditions.In addition, the actual amount of cash available for distribution will depend on other factors, including:•the level and timing of capital expenditures;•the cost of acquisitions;•debt service requirements and other liabilities;•fluctuations in working capital needs;•ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;•restrictions contained in debt agreements;•other business risks affecting its cash levels. 24Enable may not be able to successfully integrate the operations of OGE Holdings and CenterPoint.Pursuant to the Master Formation Agreement, OGE Energy and the ArcLight group indirectly contributed 100 percent of the equity interests in Enogex LLC to Enable. CenterPoint Energy Field Services, LLC was converted into a Delaware limited partnership that became Enable Midstream Partners, LP. CenterPoint contributed to Enable its equity interests in each of (i) CenterPoint Energy Gas Transmission Company, LLC, (ii) MRT, and (iii) certain of its other midstream subsidiaries and caused its subsidiary CenterPoint Energy Southeastern Pipelines Holding, LLC to contribute a 24.95 percent interest in Southeast Supply Header, LLC. If Enable is not able to successfully integrate these operations, it could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Enable's contracts are subject to renewal riskEnable generates a substantial portion of its gross margins under long-term, fee-based agreements. For the year ended December 31, 2013, on a pro forma basis, approximately 76% of its gross margin was generated from contracts that are fee-based and approximately 50% of its gross margin was attributable to firm contracts or contracts with minimum volume commitment features. As these and other contracts expire, extensions or renewals with existing suppliers and customers may have to be renegotiated or new contracts with other suppliers and customers may be necessary. Enable may be unable to obtain new contracts on favorable commercial terms, if at all, and also may be unable to maintain the economic structure of a particular contract with an existing customer or the overall mix of its contract portfolio. For example, depending on prevailing market conditions at the time of a contract renewal, gathering and processing customers with fixed-fee or fixed-margin contracts may desire to enter into contracts under different fee arrangements. To the extent Enable is unable to renew its existing contracts on favorable terms, if at all, or successfully manage its overall contract mix over time, its revenue, results of operations and distributable cash flow could be adversely affected.Enable depends on a small number of customers for a significant portion of its firm transportation and storage services revenues. The loss of, or reduction in volumes from, these customers could result in a decline in sales of its transportation and storage services and its consolidated financial position, results of operations and its ability to make cash distributions to us.Enable provides firm transportation and storage services to certain key customers on its system. Enable's major transportation customers are affiliates of CenterPoint Energy, Laclede Group, Exxon Mobile Corporation, OGE Energy and American Electric Power Company, Inc. Enable's interstate transportation and storage assets were designed and built to serve affiliates of CenterPoint Energy, Laclede Group, OGE Energy and American Electric Power Company.The loss of all or even a portion of the interstate or intrastate transportation and storage services for any of these customers, the failure to extend or replace these contracts or the extension or replacement of these contracts on less favorable terms, as a result of competition or otherwise, could adversely affect Enable's ability to make cash distributions to OGE Energy.The businesses of Enable are dependent, in part, on the drilling and production decisions of others.The businesses of Enable are dependent on the continued availability of natural gas and crude oil production. Enable has no control over the level of drilling activity in its areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to its systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, its cash flows associated with wells currently connected to its systems will decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on its gathering and transportation systems and the asset utilization rates at its natural gas processing plants, its customers must continually obtain new natural gas and crude oil supplies. The primary factors affecting its ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and crude oil and attract new customers to its assets are the level of successful drilling activity near these systems, its ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells and its ability to expand capacity as needed. If Enable is not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas and crude oil to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on its gathering, processing, transportation and storage facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and distributable cash flow. Enable has no control over producers or its drilling and production decisions, which are affected by, among other things:•the availability and cost of capital;•prevailing and projected commodity prices, including the prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil;•demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil; 25•levels of reserves;•geological considerations;•environmental or other governmental regulations, including the availability of drilling permits and the regulation of hydraulic fracturing; and•the availability of drilling rigs and other costs of production and equipment.Fluctuations in energy prices can also greatly affect the development of new natural gas and crude oil reserves. Drilling and production activity generally decreases as commodity prices decrease. In general terms, the prices of natural gas, crude oil and other hydrocarbon products fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond its control. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas or crude oil reserves are known to exist in areas served by its assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. Declines in natural gas or crude oil prices can have a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity and, if sustained, could lead to decreases in such activity. A sustained decline could also lead producers to shut in production from its existing wells. Sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in its areas of operation could lead to further reductions in the utilization of its systems, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.In addition, it may be more difficult to maintain or increase the current volumes on its gathering systems, as several of the formations in the unconventional resource plays in which Enable operates generally has higher initial production rates and steeper production decline curves than wells in more conventional basins. Should Enable determine that the economics of its gathering assets do not justify the capital expenditures needed to grow or maintain volumes associated therewith, it may reduce such capital expenditures, which could cause revenues associated with these assets to decline over time. In addition to capital expenditures to support growth, the steeper production decline curves associated with unconventional resource plays may require Enable to incur higher maintenance capital expenditures relative to throughput over time, which will reduce its distributable cash flow.Because of these and other factors, even if new reserves are known to exist in areas served by its assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. Reductions in drilling activity would result in an inability to maintain the current levels of throughput on its systems and could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and distributable cash flow.Enable’s industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect its results of operations and distributable cash flow.Enable competes with similar enterprises in its respective areas of operation. The principal elements of competition are rates, terms of service and flexibility and reliability of service. Competitors include large crude oil, natural gas and petrochemical companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering, processing, transportation and storage systems that would create additional competition for the services Enable provides to its customers. Excess pipeline capacity in the regions served by our interstate pipelines could also increase competition and adversely impact the ability to renew or enter into new contracts with respect to available capacity when existing contracts expire. In addition, customers that are significant producers of natural gas may develop their own gathering, processing, transportation and storage systems. Enable’s ability to renew or replace existing contracts with customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of its competitors and customers. Further, natural gas utilized as a fuel competes with other forms of energy available to end-users, including electricity, coal and liquid fuels. Increased demand for such forms of energy at the expense of natural gas could lead to a reduction in demand for natural gas gathering, processing, transportation and transportation services. All of these competitive pressures could adversely affect its results of operations and distributable cash flow.Enable derives a substantial portion of its operating income and cash flow from subsidiaries through which it holds a substantial portion of its assets.Enable derives a substantial portion of its operating income and cash flow from, and holds a substantial portion of its assets through, its subsidiaries. As a result, it depends on distributions from its subsidiaries in order to meet its payment obligations. In general, these subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide Enable with funds for its payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or otherwise. In addition, provisions of applicable law, such as 26those limiting the legal sources of dividends, limit its subsidiaries’ ability to make payments or other distributions, and its subsidiaries could agree to contractual restrictions on its ability to make distributions.The right by Enable to receive any assets of any subsidiary, and therefore the right of its creditors to participate in those assets, will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors. In addition, even if Enable were a creditor of any subsidiary, its rights as a creditor would be subordinated to any security interest in the assets of that subsidiary and any indebtedness of the subsidiary senior to that held by them.Enable may not be able to recover the costs of its substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions, and the actual cost of such improvements and additions may be significantly higher than it anticipates.Enable's business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions. Capital expenditures are expected to be $450 million for the twelve months ending March 31, 2015. For example, Enable is currently constructing a cryogenic processing plant in Grady County, Oklahoma (the Bradley Plant), which will provide an additional 200 MMcf/d of processing capacity and is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2015. In addition, other assets are expected to be placed in service in 2014 related to its crude oil gathering pipeline system in North Dakota’s Bakken shale formation.The construction of additions or modifications to Enable's existing systems, and the construction of new midstream assets, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, many of which are beyond its control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed estimates. These projects may not be completed at the planned cost, on schedule or at all. The construction of new pipeline, gathering, treating, processing, compression or other facilities is subject to construction cost overruns due to labor costs, costs of equipment and materials such as steel, labor shortages or weather or other delays, inflation or other factors, which could be material. In addition, the construction of these facilities is typically subject to the receipt of approvals and permits from various regulatory agencies. Those agencies may not approve the projects in a timely manner, if at all, or may impose restrictions or conditions on the projects that could potentially prevent a project from proceeding, lengthen its expected completion schedule and/or increase its anticipated cost. Moreover, revenues and cash flows may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if an existing pipeline expanded or a new pipeline constructed, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and material increases in revenues or cash flows may not be received until the project is completed. In addition Enable may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, the new facilities may not be able to achieve an expected investment return, which could adversely affect its results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.In connection with its capital investments, Enable may engage a third party to estimate potential reserves in areas to be developed prior to constructing facilities in those areas. To the extent estimates of future production are relied on in deciding to construct additions to its systems, those estimates may prove to be inaccurate due to numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract sufficient throughput to achieve expected investment return, which could adversely affect its results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. In addition, the construction of additions to existing gathering and transportation assets may require new rights-of-way prior to construction. Those rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to existing gathering lines may be unavailable, preventing its ability to capitalize on attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, its results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders, including us, could be adversely affected.Natural gas, NGL and crude oil prices are volatile, and changes in these prices could adversely affect Enable ability to make cash distributions.Enable's ability to make cash distributions to us could be negatively affected by adverse movements in the prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil depending on factors that are beyond its control. These factors include demand for these commodities, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including the impact of seasonality and weather, general economic conditions, the level of domestic and offshore natural gas production and consumption, the availability of imported natural gas, liquefied natural gas, NGLs and crude oil, actions taken by foreign natural gas and oil producing nations, the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems, the availability and marketing of competitive fuels, the impact of energy conservation efforts, technological advances affecting energy consumption and the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. 27At any given time, Enable's overall portfolio of processing contracts may reflect a net short position in natural gas (meaning a net buyer of natural gas) and a net long position in NGLs (meaning a net seller of NGLs). As a result, its gross margin could be adversely impacted to the extent the price of NGLs decreases in relation to the price of natural gas.Enable provides certain transportation and storage services under long-term, fixed-price “negotiated rate” contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if the cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts, and, as a result, costs could exceed revenues received under such contracts.Enable has been authorized by the FERC, to provide transportation and storage services at its facilities at negotiated rates. Generally, negotiated rates are in excess of the maximum recourse rates allowed by the FERC, but it is possible that costs to perform services under “negotiated rate” contracts will exceed the revenues obtained under these agreements. If this occurs, it could decrease the cash flow realized by its systems and, therefore, decrease the cash available for distribution to its unitholders, including us.As of December 31, 2013, approximately 57% of Enable's contracted transportation firm capacity and 43% of its contracted storage firm capacity was subscribed under such “negotiated rate” contracts. These contracts generally do not include provisions allowing for adjustment for increased costs due to inflation, pipeline safety activities or other factors that are not tied to an applicable tracking mechanism authorized by the FERC. Successful recovery of any shortfall of revenue, representing the difference between “recourse rates” (if higher) and negotiated rates, is not assured under current FERC policies.If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to Enable's gathering, processing or transportation facilities become partially or fully unavailable, its ability to make cash distributions to us could be adversely affected.Enable depends upon third-party natural gas pipelines to deliver natural gas to, and take natural gas from, its transportation systems. it also depends on third-party facilities to transport and fractionate NGLs that are delivered to the third party at the tailgates of the processing plants. Fractionation is the separation of the heterogeneous mixture of extracted NGLs into individual components for end-use sale. For example, an outage or disruption on certain pipelines or fractionators operated by a third party could result in the shutdown of certain of its processing plants, and a prolonged outage or disruption could ultimately result in a reduction in the volume of NGLs it is able to produce. Additionally, Enable depends on third parties to provide electricity for compression at many of its facilities. Since it does not own or operate any of these third-party pipelines or other facilities, continuing operation of those facilities is not within its control. If any of these third-party pipelines or other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to Enable for any reason, its results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to us could be adversely affected.Enable does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt its operations.Enable does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and it is therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if it does not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. Enable may obtain the rights to construct and operate its pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. A loss of these rights, through its inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could cause a cease in operations temporarily or permanently on the affected land, increase costs related to the construction and continuing operations elsewhere, and adversely affect its results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders, including us.Enable conducts a portion of its operations through joint ventures, which subjects them to additional risks that could have a material adverse effect on the success of its operations, financial position and results of operations.Enable conducts a portion of its operations through joint ventures with third parties, including Spectra Energy, DCP Midstream Partners, LP, Trans Louisiana Gas Pipeline, Inc. and Pablo Gathering LLC. It may also enter into other joint venture arrangements in the future. These third parties may have obligations that are important to the success of the joint venture, such as the obligation to pay their share of capital and other costs of the joint venture. The performance of these third-party obligations, including the ability of the third parties to satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, is outside the control of Enable. The joint venture arrangements of Enable may involve risks not otherwise present when operating assets directly, including, for example:•joint venture partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions; 28•joint venture partners may not pay their share of the joint venture’s obligations, leaving Enable liable for their shares of joint venture liabilities;•it may be unable to control the amount of cash it will receive from the joint venture;•it may incur liabilities as a result of an action taken by its joint venture partners;•it may be required to devote significant management time to the requirements of and matters relating to the joint ventures;•its insurance policies may not fully cover loss or damage incurred by both them and its joint venture partners in certain circumstances;•its joint venture partners may be in a position to take actions contrary to its instructions or requests or contrary to its policies or objectives; and•disputes between them and its joint venture partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses.The risks described above or the failure to continue joint ventures or to resolve disagreements with joint venture partners could adversely affect Enable's ability to transact the business that is the subject of such joint venture, which would in turn negatively affect its financial condition and results of operations. The agreements under which certain joint ventures were formed may subject them to various risks, limit the actions it may take with respect to the assets subject to the joint venture and require them to grant rights to its joint venture partners that could limit its ability to benefit fully from future positive developments. Some joint ventures require Enable to make significant capital expenditures. If it does not timely meet its financial commitments or otherwise do not comply with its joint venture agreements, its rights to participate, exercise operator rights or otherwise influence or benefit from the joint venture may be adversely affected. Certain of its joint venture partners may have substantially greater financial resources than Enable has and it may not be able to secure the funding necessary to participate in operations its joint venture partners propose, thereby reducing its ability to benefit from the joint venture.Enable business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. Insufficient insurance coverage and increased insurance costs could adversely impact its ability to make cash distributions to us.Enable' operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the gathering, processing, transportation and storage of natural gas and crude oil, including:•damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters, acts of terrorism and actions by third parties;•inadvertent damage from construction, vehicles, farm and utility equipment;•leaks of natural gas, crude oil and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas and crude oil as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities;•ruptures, fires and explosions; and•other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations.These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of its operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which it operates could have a material adverse effect on its operations. Enable is not fully insured against all risks inherent in its business. It does not have business interruption insurance coverage for all of its operations. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of its facilities may not be sufficient to restore the loss or damage without negative impact on its results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders, including us. 29Enable’s ability to grow is dependent on its ability to access external financing sources.Enable expects its operating subsidiaries will distribute all of their available cash to Enable and that it will distribute all of its available cash to its unitholders. As a result, Enable expects that it and its operating subsidiaries will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent Enable or its operating subsidiaries are unable to finance growth externally, its cash distribution policy will significantly impair its ability to grow. In addition, because it and its operating subsidiaries distribute all available cash, its growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations.To the extent Enable issues additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk it will be unable to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level, which in turn may impact the cash available to distribute on each unit. There are no limitations in the partnership agreement on its ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt by Enable or its operating subsidiaries to finance its growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may negatively impact the available cash that its operating subsidiaries have to distribute to it, and thus that it has to distribute to its unitholders, including us.If Enable does not make acquisitions or is unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, its future growth will be limited.Enable's ability to grow depends, in part, on the ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in its cash generated from operations per common unit. If it is unable to make these accretive acquisitions either because: (i) it is unable to identify attractive acquisition targets or it is unable to negotiate purchase contracts on acceptable terms, (ii) it is unable to obtain acquisition financing on economically acceptable terms, or (iii) it is outbid by competitors, then its future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited.Enable's merger and acquisition activities may not be successful or may result in completed acquisitions that do not perform as anticipated.From time to time, Enable has made, and it intends to continue to make, acquisitions of businesses and assets. Such acquisitions involve substantial risks, including the following:•acquired businesses or assets may not produce revenues, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels;•acquired businesses or assets could have environmental, permitting or other problems for which contractual protections prove inadequate;•it may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to it, that exceed its estimates, or for which its rights to indemnification from the seller are limited;•it may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems; and•acquisitions, or the pursuit of acquisitions, could disrupt its ongoing businesses, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain its current business standards, controls and procedures.Enable and its operating subsidiaries’ debt levels may limit its flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities.As of December 31, 2013, Enable had approximately $1.9 billion of long-term debt outstanding and $200 million of short-term debt outstanding, excluding the premiums on senior notes in addition to $363 million of long-term notes payable due to CenterPoint Energy. Enable also has a $1.4 billion revolving credit facility for working capital, capital expenditures and other partnership purposes, including acquisitions, of which $1.1 billion was available as of December 31, 2013. Following the planned IPO, it will continue to have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in its credit facilities. The levels of debt could have important consequences, including the following: 30•the ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or the financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all;•a portion of cash flows will be required to make interest payments on the debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions;•the debt level will make Enable more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in the business or the economy generally; and•the debt level may limit flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.Enable’s and its operating subsidiaries’ ability to service its debt will depend upon, among other things, its future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond its control. If operating results are not sufficient to service its current or future indebtedness, it may be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. These actions may not be effected on satisfactory terms, or at all.Enable’s credit facilities contain operating and financial restrictions, including covenants and restrictions that may be affected by events beyond its control, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to its unitholders.•Enable's credit facilities contain customary covenants that, among other things, limit the ability to:•permit its subsidiaries to incur or guarantee additional debt;•incur or permit to exist certain liens on assets;•dispose of assets;•merge or consolidate with another company or engage in a change of control;•enter into transactions with affiliates on non-arm’s length terms; and•change the nature of its business.Enable’s credit facilities also require it to maintain certain financial ratios. Its ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond its control, and assurance it will meet those ratios cannot be guaranteed. In addition, its credit facilities contain events of default customary for agreements of this nature.Enable's ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in its credit facilities may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, its ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in its credit facilities is violated, a significant portion of its indebtedness may become immediately due and payable. In addition, its lenders’ commitments to make further loans under the revolving credit facility may be suspended or terminated. Enable might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Enable may be unable to obtain or renew permits necessary for its operations, which could inhibit its ability to do business.Performance of its operations require it obtain and maintain a number of federal and state permits, licenses and approvals with terms and conditions containing a significant number of prescriptive limits and performance standards in order to operate. All of these permits, licenses, approval limits and standards require a significant amount of monitoring, record keeping and reporting in order to demonstrate compliance with the underlying permit, license, approval limit or standard. Noncompliance or incomplete documentation of our compliance status may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive relief. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay the issuance of a new or existing material permit or other approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or other approval, could adversely affect its ability to initiate or continue operations at the affected location or facility and on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 31Additionally, in order to obtain permits and renewals of permits and other approvals in the future, Enable may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the potential adverse impact that any proposed pipeline or processing-related activities may have on the environment, individually or in the aggregate, including on public and Indian lands. Certain approval procedures may require preparation of archaeological surveys, endangered species studies and other studies to assess the environmental impact of new sites or the expansion of existing sites. Compliance with these regulatory requirements is expensive and significantly lengthens the time required to prepare applications and to receive authorizations.Costs of compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws and regulations may adversely affect Enable's results of operations and its ability to make cash distributions to unitholders, including us.Enable is subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife conservation, natural resources and health and safety that could, among other things, delay or increase costs of construction, restrict or limit the output of certain facilities and/or require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase costs. There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations and those costs may be even more significant in the future.There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in its operations due to the handling of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil, air emissions related to its operations and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. These activities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, including the discharge of materials into the environment and the protection of plants, wildlife, and natural and cultural resources. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact business activities in many ways, such as restricting the handling or disposing of wastes or requiring remedial action to mitigate pollution conditions that may be caused by its operations or that are attributable to former operators. Joint and several strict liability may be incurred, without regard to fault, under certain of these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of wastes on, under or from its properties and facilities, many of which have been used for midstream activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under its control. Private parties, including the owners of the properties through which its gathering systems pass and facilities where its wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non- compliance, with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. For example, an accidental release from one of its pipelines could subject them to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Enable may be unable to recover these costs from insurance. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Further, stricter requirements could negatively impact its customers’ production and operations, resulting in less demand for its services.Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in natural gas production by Enable's customers, which could adversely affect its results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand, and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Many of its customers commonly use hydraulic fracturing techniques in their drilling and completion programs. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where its oil and natural gas exploration and production customers operate, such customers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells, some or all of which activities could adversely affect demand for its services to those customers. 32Enable may incur substantial liabilities to comply with climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives.Because Enable's operations emit various types of greenhouse gases, legislation and regulations governing greenhouse gas emissions could increase its costs related to operating and maintaining its facilities, and could delay future permitting. Any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with new legislation or regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and cash flows, in addition to the demand for its services. To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this view could negatively affect its ability to access capital markets or cause them to receive less favorable terms and conditions. Consequently, legislation and regulatory initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse gases could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.Enable's operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal regulatory authorities. Changes or additional regulatory measures adopted by such authorities could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.The rates charged by several of Enable's pipeline systems, including for interstate gas transportation service provided by its intrastate pipelines, are regulated by the FERC. The FERC and state regulatory agencies also regulate other terms and conditions of the services it may offer. If one of these regulatory agencies, on its own initiative or due to challenges by third parties, were to lower its tariff rates or deny any rate increase or other material changes to the types, or terms and conditions, of service it might propose or offer, the profitability of its pipeline businesses could suffer. If it were permitted to raise its tariff rates for a particular pipeline, there might be significant delay between the time the tariff rate increase is approved and the time that the rate increase actually goes into effect, which could also limit profitability. Furthermore, competition from other pipeline systems may prevent them from raising its tariff rates even if permitted by regulatory agencies. The regulatory agencies that regulate its systems periodically implement new rules, regulations and terms and conditions of services subject to its jurisdiction. New initiatives or orders may adversely affect the rates charged for services or otherwise adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.Enable’s operations may also be subject to regulation by state and local regulatory authorities. Changes or additional regulatory measures adopted by such authorities could adversely affect its results of operations and its ability to make cash distributions to unitholders, including us.The pipeline operations of Enable that are not regulated by the FERC may be subject to state and local regulation applicable to intrastate natural and transportation services. The relevant states in which it operates include North Dakota, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, Texas, Missouri, Kansas, Mississippi, Tennessee and Illinois. State and local regulations generally focus on safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, prohibition of undue discrimination among shippers. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered and, in some instances, adopted from time to time. The effect, if any, such changes might have on operations cannot be predicted, but Enable could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Other state and local regulations also may affect the business. Any such state or local regulation could have an adverse effect on the business and the results of operations.Gathering lines may be subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, oil or natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes restrict the right by Enable as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom it contracts to purchase or transport oil or natural gas. Federal law leaves economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. The states in which it operates have adopted complaint-based regulation of oil and natural gas gathering activities, which allows oil and natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to access to oil and natural gas gathering pipelines and rate discrimination.Other state regulations may not directly regulate the business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for processing, including state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells. While its gathering lines are currently subject to limited state regulation, there is a risk that state laws will be changed, which may give producers a stronger basis to challenge the regulatory status of a line, or the rates, terms and conditions of a gathering line providing transportation service.A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of Enable’s assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of its assets, which may cause its revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. 33Enable’s natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation operations are generally exempt from the jurisdiction of the FERC, but FERC regulation may indirectly impact these businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. The FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its oil and natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on interstate open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release, and market center promotion may indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, the FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate oil and natural gas pipelines. However, it cannot be assured that the FERC will continue to pursue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas transportation business. Although the FERC has not made a formal determination with respect to all of its facilities they consider to be gathering facilities, Enable believes that its natural gas gathering pipelines meet the traditional tests that the FERC has used to determine that a pipeline is a gathering pipeline and are therefore not subject to FERC jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services, however, has been the subject of substantial litigation, and the FERC determines whether facilities are gathering facilities on a case-by-case basis, so the classification and regulation of its gathering facilities is subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts or Congress. If the FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility and/or services provided by it are not exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA and that the facility provides interstate service, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by the FERC under the NGA or the NGPA. Such regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs, and, depending upon the facility in question, could adversely affect Enable’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders. In addition, if any of its facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of FERC regulations, this could result in the imposition of substantial civil penalties, as well as a requirement to disgorge revenues collected for such services in excess of the maximum rates established by the FERC.Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at the state level; therefore, Enable's natural gas gathering operations could be adversely affected should it become subject to the application of state regulation of rates and services. Enable’s gathering operations could also be subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, construction, testing, operation, replacement and maintenance of gathering facilities. The effect, if any, such changes might have on its operations cannot be predicted, but additional capital expenditures could be required and increased costs could be incurred depending on future legislative and regulatory changes.Enable may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline integrity and other similar programs and related repairs.The U.S. Department of Transportation has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located in “high consequence areas,” which are those areas where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. The regulations require operators, including Enable, to, among other things:•develop a baseline plan to prioritize the assessment of a covered pipeline segment;•identify and characterize applicable threats that could impact a high consequence area;•improve data collection, integration, and analysis;•repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and•implement preventive and mitigating action.Although many of Enable's pipelines fall within a class that is currently not subject to these requirements, significant cost and liabilities associated with repair, remediation, preventive or mitigation measures associated with its non-exempt pipelines could be incurred. This work is part of its normal integrity management program and it does not expect to incur any extraordinary costs during 2013 or 2014 to complete the testing required by existing Department of Transportation regulations and its state counterparts. Costs have not been estimated for any repair, remediation, preventive or mitigation actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which could be substantial, or any lost cash flows resulting from the shutting down of pipelines during the pendency of such repairs. Should Enable fail to comply with Department of Transportation or comparable state regulations, it could be subject to penalties and fines. Also, the scope of the integrity management program and other related pipeline safety programs could be expanded in the future. The cost of complying with such future requirements has not been estimated. 34Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 