RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to achieve and maintain a leading position and to build awareness of our brands, we may not be able to compete effectively against competitors with greater name recognition and our sales could be adversely affected. If we are unable to economically achieve and maintain a leading position in data recognition software or to promote and maintain our brands, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. Development and awareness of our brands will depend largely on our success in increasing our customer base. In order to attract and retain customers and to promote and maintain our brands in response to competitive pressures, we may be required to increase our marketing and advertising budget or increase our other sales expenses. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be sufficient or that we will be successful in attracting and retaining customers or promoting our brands. Failure in this regard could harm our business and results of operations. We are entering into new market sectors such as mobile and SAAS applications and may not succeed in garnering sufficient market share to remain competitive. Since 2012, we have focused on expanding our eFLOW products to mobile platforms. We have also expanded our solutions to include SAAS, or software as a service, cloud-based products. Our experience with mobile and SAAS services is limited and we face stiff competition. In addition, mobile and SAAS technologies change quickly, and we may not be able to penetrate the market in any material way. If our solutions fail to effectively operate on the latest mobile devices or if our SAAS services are not compatible with the latest hardware, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial condition. If we acquire additional businesses, it may lead to increased expenditures and integration costs, and could strain management, financial, and operational resources. Between 2007 and 2009, we acquired related complementary businesses in an effort to expand capacity, enter new markets and diversify our sources of revenue. Those acquisitions strained our management, financial and operational resources. Any future acquisition may also generate such strain. If we engage in a strategic mergers or acquisitions, the consideration we pay may be in cash or ordinary shares. Our underwritten offering during the first quarter of 2014, of 3,162,500 of our ordinary shares yielded approximately $13.7 million in net proceeds and we may use some or all of such proceeds toward strategic mergers or acquisitions should we choose to engage in them. The aggregate amount of ordinary shares sold reflects the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase up to 412,500 additional ordinary shares to cover over-allotments. Those proceeds may prove insufficient to fund potential transactions, or we may elect to engage in stock rather than cash transaction In the event we do engage in additional acquisitions or mergers, they may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of additional debt, the assumption of known and unknown liabilities, the amortization of expenses related to intangible assets and the impairment of goodwill, all of which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the market’s reaction to any transaction could be negative and cause a drop in the trading price of our ordinary shares. The prospect of possible mergers or acquisitions could result in significant volatility in our stock price. We currently have subsidiaries in foreign countries and additional acquisitions in foreign countries, should we choose to pursue them, may pose additional problems. We could experience inefficiencies in conducting our business as we integrate new operations and manage geographically dispersed operations. Also, the acquired businesses may not yield the income and levels of activity we expected them to yield, which may result in losses. 4 Additionally, we may not succeed in retaining or hiring qualified management, sales, customer support, and technical personnel to integrate acquired operations, manage future growth effectively, and accomplish our overall objectives. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we expand too fast, or fail to integrate our recently acquired businesses or other new businesses, or lose key personnel from our recently acquired businesses or other businesses, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The market for data capture systems, automatic form processing systems and mobile data captures highly competitive. The market for data capture systems in general, and for automatic form processing systems in particular, is characterized by intense competition, significant price erosion over the life of the product, and rapidly changing business conditions, customer requirements, and technology. Our relatively recent entry into the mobile and SAAS markets compounds the challenges we need to overcome to attain market success. Our products compete with those developed and marketed by numerous well-established companies, including EMC (Captiva Software), Mitek, Banctec, Kofax (formerly, Dicom Group), and ReadSoft, as well as with manual data entry systems. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial resources than we do. Furthermore, certain of these competitors are industry leaders with the financial resources necessary to enable them to withstand substantial price competition or downturns in the market for computer software. The fact that our resources are more limited places us at a significant disadvantage. This risk is particularly acute during difficult economic times. Further, the emerging market for mobile data capture systems in which we are competing, even at this stage of its development, is characterized by intense competition and rapidly changing business conditions, customer requirements, and technology. We are in competition with Mitek and others in that market. The emerging nature of the market may impose financial risks that competitors with greater financial resources are more equipped to bear. A slowdown in our customers’ industries could adversely impact the sale of our products and our prospects of achieving or maintaining profitability. A slowdown in the industries to which we sell our products would likely result in significantly reduced product demand, erosion of selling prices and overcapacity. Such a downturn could materially reduce demand for the products and technology that we offer. In addition, our ability to reduce expenses in response to any downturn or slowdown in such industries may be limited because of: · our continuing need to invest in research and development; · our capital equipment requirements; and · marketing requirements. Many of our current and prospective customers are large financial and business institutions. An economic downturn could result in downward price pressure on vendor solutions and could result in intense price competition. A downturn may also cause prospective customers to delay implementation of software solutions and thereby delay purchases of our products. A slowdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 5 The impact of a continuing global economic downturn, including the European debt crisis, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We sell our products and services in various countries around the world, with a concentration in Europe. Consequently, our sales and profitability are dependent on general economic conditions globally and locally. The weakening of consumer and corporate confidence, declining income and asset values in many areas and other adverse factors related to the global economic downturn that has been ongoing during the past several years has resulted in our customers and the end-users of our products, services and solutions, postponing or reducing spending on our products, services and solutions. A substantial and lasting slowdown of the global economy could result in a continuation of that trend thereby adversely affecting our business. The global economic downturn and the European debt crisis in particular have also led to more limited availability of credit which may have a negative impact on the financial condition, and in particular on the purchasing ability, of some of our customers and may also result in requests for extended payment terms, credit losses, insolvencies, limited ability to respond to demand or diminished sales channels available to us. The generally difficult economic conditions combined with tightening credit markets may also cause financial difficulties for our suppliers and collaborative partners which may result in their failure to perform as planned and, consequently, in delays in the delivery of our products, services and solutions. For example, the European debt crisis, which has had a negative impact on the European economy, may have adverse impact on our operations. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, we generated $20.5 million, $19.9 million, and $ $16.6 million respectively, of revenues from our operations in Europe, which represented 71%, 64% and 57%, respectively, of our total revenues. We are not certain that we will be able to maintain those levels in light of the ongoing economic difficulties in Europe. The tightening of European credit markets may result in additional deterioration of our customers’ and end-users’ credit quality or access to cash, which could lower the realization rate on our accounts receivable. In addition, the debt crisis in certain European countries could cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our customers and end-users of our products or services, which can lead to the lower demand for such products or services, increase our exposure to losses from bad debts or result in our customers or end-users ceasing operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results from operations. The difficult global economic conditions may also result in inefficiencies due to our reduced ability to forecast developments in our industry and plan our operations accordingly. Adverse economic conditions affecting us, our current and potential customers, their spending on our products, services and solutions, and our suppliers and collaborative partners may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For a more detailed discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, see “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our success depends on our strategic marketing relationships and the marketing and distribution efforts of our distributors and other strategic partners. Our business and prospects depend upon our ability to maintain our existing, and to develop additional, strategic marketing relationships and upon the marketing and distribution efforts of our distributors and other strategic partners. In particular, our marketing efforts with respect to our mobile products involve our forging and maintaining relationships with parties in a position to purchase or deploy our solutions, including banking and financial institutions which could potentially purchase our mobile solutions and make them available to their customers. The loss or diminishment of our relationship with any one of our significant strategic partners could have a material and adverse effect on our existing operations and growth prospects. We normally attempt to recruit distributors with established distribution channels and reputations for marketing and installing document imaging, data capture and workflow systems to market our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop such relationships. Our litigation with Mitek (see "We may be subject to potential liabilities arising from a patent claim filed against us in the United States.”") may impact the willingness of others to enter strategic partnerships with us. 6 Our industry is marked by rapid technological changes and frequent new or updated product introductions, and if we do not respond to such rapid technological changes, new product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards, our products and services could become obsolete. As processing speeds increase, memory capacities expand and software is upgraded, we need to ensure our products, capitalize on these developments, and remain compatible with industry standards. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability to offer state-of-the-art products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our product decisions must anticipate the changing demand for products. If we are unable to develop, modify and enhance our existing technology to respond to such changing standards and customer demands, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, the development of new technologies, new product introductions or enhancements by our competitors could adversely affect our sales. There are presently numerous platforms for data capture and there is presently no single industry standard for processing. We can provide no assurance that our solutions will be adopted by industry players or that they will be compatible. These uncertainties are compounded by the fact that mobile technologies are rapidly evolving and we may not be able to adapt our products quickly enough to accommodate changing platforms, mobile imaging capabilities, and device configurations. Our capital requirements have historically been significant and we may not in the future be able to meet our requirements with our working capital. Historically, our capital requirements have been significant. We may in the future require additional financing to fund our operations and capital requirements beyond our current resources, our cash flow from our operations or funding under our revolving line of credit. In such event, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us when needed, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We have no expectation that our existing shareholders will provide any portion of our future financing requirements. Any inability to obtain additional financing when needed would have a material adverse effect on us, requiring us to curtail our expansion efforts. In addition, to the extent that we incur substantial indebtedness, we will be subject to risks associated with incurring substantial indebtedness, including the risk that interest rates may fluctuate, and cash may be insufficient to repay interest and principal on any such indebtedness. Any additional equity financing may involve substantial dilution of the interests of our then-existing shareholders. We have a history of quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations and expect these fluctuations to continue, this may cause our stock price to decline. We have experienced and expect to experience in the future significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. Our lengthy sales cycle increases our exposure to customer cancellations or delays in orders, which may result in volatile quarterly revenues. Given the high average selling price of, and the cost and time required to sell our solutions, a customer’s decision to license our products typically involves a significant commitment of resources and is influenced by the customer’s budget cycles and internal approval procedures for information technology purchases. In addition, selling our solutions requires us to educate potential customers about our solutions’ uses and benefits. As a result, our solutions have a long sales cycle, which can take 9 to 12 months or more. Consequently, we have difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers may occur and actual sales may not necessarily be in the same calendar quarter or even year in which we expended resources in connection with marketing to the client. The sale of our solutions is also subject to delays from the lengthy budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes of our customers, which typically accompany significant capital expenditures. Other factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations include: · the size and timing of orders; · customer deferral of orders in anticipation of new products, product upgrades or price enhancements; 7 · customer deferral of orders due to general economic conditions or a customer’s specific cash flow shortages; · the high level of competition that we encounter; and · the timing of our product introductions, upgrades or enhancements or those of our competitors or of providers of complementary products. Fluctuations in our quarterly results could discourage investors and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Large customers have historically constituted a significant portion of our orders and if we become dependent on large customers, the loss of such customers could adversely affect us. Sales to large customers have historically accounted for a significant part of our sales. In 2013, sales to one customer accounted for 10.2% of our total revenue. In 2012 and 2011, we had no customer who accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues. We are actively recruiting large customers and partners for our products in our efforts to continue to avoid dependence on individual customers. However, if we become dependent on large customers, our business, prospects, financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more such customers. Uncertainties related to our recent management changes may adversely affect our business, strategy and financial results. In November, 2013, we announced that Dr. Ido Schechter will step down as CEO effective December 31, 2013, and that our executive chairman Mr. Izhak Nakar will take over some of the responsibilities of the CEO, until the recruitment of a permanent CEO and currently serves as our principal executive officer. These management transitions may cause or result in disruption of our business or distraction of our employees and management; difficulty in recruiting, hiring, motivating, and retaining talented and skilled personnel, including current members of management; and difficulty in negotiating, maintaining, or consummating business or strategic relationships or transactions. If we are unable to timely recruit a CEO and mitigate these or other potential risks, our revenue, operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Our success depends on our key personnel. Our success depends upon the contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel. All of our key management and technical personnel have expertise, which is in high demand among our competitors, and the loss of any of these individuals could cause our business to suffer. We do not as a general matter maintain key person life insurance policies on our officers, directors and key employees. Our solutions require a sophisticated sales effort targeted at senior management of our prospective customers. New employees in our sales department require extensive training and typically take several months to achieve full productivity. There is no assurance that we will be able to retain our sales staff, or that new sales representatives will ultimately become productive. If we were to lose qualified and productive sales personnel, our revenues could be adversely impacted. We have had a history of losses and may incur future losses. Since our inception in March 1991, we have incurred net losses in every year other than in 1995, 1997, 1998, 2006, 2008, 2011 and 2012, and our losses may recur and continue. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $19,993,000. We plan to maintain the level of our aggregate product development expenses. We cannot assure you that our revenues will grow or that we will continue to achieve profitability in the future. Failure to increase revenues could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial results and results of operations. 8 We may be subject to potential liabilities arising from a patent claim filed against us in the United States. On September 25, 2012, TIS America Inc. and Top Image Systems, Ltd. were named as defendants in Case Number 1:12-cv-01208-UNA, filed by Mitek Systems, Inc. for alleged infringement on five United States patents in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. Mitek filed a First Amended Complaint on January 11, 2013. An answer to the First Amended Complaint was filed on January 28, 2013 adding one additional patent. A scheduling order was entered on February 21, 2013 Discovery is underway and a trial is scheduled for December 8, 2014. The lawsuit relates to technology used in our MobiCHECK software. Mitek is seeking a declaration of infringement, an injunction, damages, and enhanced damages, costs, expenses including reasonable attorneys' fees, pre-judgment and post-judgment interest and any other relief, in law and in equity, to which the Court finds Mitek is justly entitled. While we believe that Mitek’s claim is without merit, we cannot assure you that the suit will be dismissed or that we will prevail. If Mitek is successful, or if we agree to settle the lawsuit, we might be unable to pursue, or severely limited in, our marketing and sale of MobiCHECK and possibly other products might be restricted or be subject to significant obligations to pay royalties. Further, even if we prevail in the lawsuit, intellectual property litigation is expensive and tends to divert management attention from our business. Accordingly, if any of the foregoing risks are realized, the lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success depends on our proprietary software technology. Our success depends upon our proprietary software technology. Although we believe that our technology has been developed independently and does not infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we cannot assure you that the technology does not and will not infringe or that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. In the case of infringement, we would, under certain circumstances, be required to modify our products or obtain a license. We cannot assure you that we would be able to do so either in a timely manner under acceptable terms and conditions or at all, or that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to defend successfully a patent infringement or other proprietary rights infringement action. Further, even if we were not infringing, intellectual property litigation is expensive and time consuming for management. Failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, if our products or technologies are deemed to infringe upon the rights of others, or if infringement claims are asserted against third parties whom we are obligated to indemnify, we could become liable for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our products contain third party intellectual property which may expose us to additional risks. We license components of our software systems and technology from third parties in reliance on such parties’ representations as to ownership of the licensed intellectual property. If our licensors are found not to own or have rights to sublicense such rights to us or if we otherwise lose the right to use such components, and we are unable to replace the licensed technology with a comparable substitute, there could be a material adverse effect on our business prospects and financial results. Even if we were to replace licensed technology with available alternatives, it could take time to identify the best replacement and integrate it into our software. The delay and uncertainty could negatively impact our financial results. Furthermore, we could be sued for, or found liable for infringement arising from our use of such licensed technology and indemnity obligations, if any, on the part of the providers of such licensed technology might not be sufficient to cover liabilities we incur. We use certain “open source” software tools that may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, the assertion of which could impair our product development plans, interfere with our ability to support our clients or require us to pay licensing fees. Certain of our products contain open source code, and we may use more open source code in the future. Open source code is code that is covered by a license agreement that permits the user to liberally copy, modify and distribute the software without cost, provided that users and modifiers abide by certain licensing requirements. The original developers of the open source code provide no warranties on such code. As a result of our use of open source software, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source code, and we may incur expenses in defending claims that we did not abide by the open source code license. If we are not successful in defending against such claims, we may be subject to monetary damages or be required to remove the open source code from our products. Such events could disrupt our operations and the sales of our products, which would negatively impact our revenues and cash flow. We monitor our use of such open source code to avoid subjecting our products to conditions that we do not intend. The use of such open source code, however, may ultimately subject some of our products to unintended conditions so that we are required to take remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts. 9 Our inability to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our competitive position and, consequently, our business and operations. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property (see “Our success depends on our proprietary software technology”). We rely upon trade secret protection, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our confidential and proprietary information. Despite these efforts, we cannot be certain that others will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or copy and use information that we regard as proprietary without our authorization. In the past, we have not obtained any patents. As a result of a change in our intellectual property protection policy, we have begun to file patent applications with regard to relevant technology. We have applications at this point for patents in the United States with regard to Mobile capture, full page images and contextual classification. We may file additional patent applications in the future. We cannot assure you that: · any of our existing patent applications will be accepted; · we will be successful in generating technology in the future which will be susceptible to applications for patents; · any patents which we may obtain will be broad enough to protect our technology, will provide us with competitive advantages or will escape challenge or invalidation by third parties; · the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business; or · others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or, if patents are issued to us, design around these patents. Further, the laws of foreign jurisdictions where we sell and seek to sell our products may afford little or no protection of our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the protection provided to our intellectual property rights by the laws and courts of foreign nations will be substantially similar to the remedies available under U.S. law. Our products may contain defects, damaging our reputation, causing a loss of customers, requiring us to allocate significant time and financial resources to correct, and potentially resulting in liability claims. Our products may contain undetected errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In the past, we have discovered minor software bugs in certain products after they were released to the market. Such errors or defects could require us to divert financial and other resources to correct the problems. In addition, our products are combined with complex products developed by other vendors. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source or sources of the problems. Defects and errors, or end-user perception of defects and errors, found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of these products after commencement of commercial shipments may result in: · damage to brand reputation; 10 · loss of customers; · delay in market acceptance of current and future products; · diversion of development and engineering resources to correct defects or errors; and · warranty or product liability claims. Although we have product liability insurance, defects, errors or successful product liability claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial results. For additional information on our warranty policy, see below “ Business Overview – Customers --- Warranty and Service.” We engage in international sales, which expose us to a number of political and economic risks. We have significant operations in several countries, including research and development, sales and customer support operations. Currently, in addition to our operations in Israel, we have significant operations in the United Kingdom, Germany, and Singapore and the United States. Our international sales and other operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including, but not limited to: · changing domestic and foreign customs and tariffs or other trade barriers; · potential staffing difficulties and labor disputes; · managing and obtaining support and distribution for local operations; · difficulty in enforcing agreements through the different legal systems of the countries in which we operate; · customers in the various countries in which we operate may have long payment cycles; · seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world; · restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings from countries in which we operate; · credit risk and financial conditions of local customers and distributors; · potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property; · potential imposition of restrictions on investments; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · foreign currency exchange restrictions and fluctuations; · natural disasters; and · local political and social conditions, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions, terrorism and political instability in certain countries. Approximately 57% of our revenues in 2013 were generated from sales made in the European Union. If this trend continues, we may be more particularly exposed to the risk of losing business and revenues as a result of trade restrictions imposed by the European Union as well as ramifications of the debt crisis in certain European countries. See “The impact of a continuing global economic downturn, including the European debt crisis, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition”. 11 We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing risks in a timely and effective manner at each location where we do business. Consequently, the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or upon our financial condition and results of operations. Our recent entry into the United States market may not prove successful. We recently upgraded our efforts to reach markets for our products in the United States though our U.S. subsidiary. We face competition intense competition in the U.S. and may not may be able to successfully establish any meaningful market share. Our time and capital investments in the U.S. may not prove worthwhile and may intensify our competitor’s efforts both in the U.S. and other markets in which we operate. If our efforts toward developing a presence in U.S. markets are unsuccessful, our distraction from our primary existing markets and investments in the U.S. could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, and financial condition. We may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We maintain operations and generate revenues in a number of countries. The results of operations and the financial position of our local operations are generally reported in the relevant local currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, exposing us to currency translation risk. In addition, we are exposed to currency transaction risk because some of our expenses are incurred in a different currency from the currency in which our revenues are received. Our most significant currency exposures are to the Euro, New Israeli Shekel, British Pound and Singapore dollar. Approximately 57% of our revenues are generated in the European Union. In periods when the U.S. dollar weakens against these other currencies, our reported results of operations may be adversely affected. Although from time to time we may purchase forward exchange contracts to reduce currency transaction risk, these purchases will not eliminate translation risk or all currency risk. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel may adversely affect our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products. Because our principal offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. There has been a marked increase in such hostility especially since Hamas, an Islamic movement responsible for many attacks against Israelis, has governed Gaza. In 2010, events and developments related to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict have also led to a deterioration in Israel’s relations with Turkey, with whom Israel currently has a free trade agreement. In addition, since the “Arab spring” various neighboring Arab countries have been unstable including Egypt and prolonged civil war in Syria. Tension with Iran, relating to its nuclear capabilities and regional influence remains high. Continuing or escalating hostilities in the region or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners as a result of or in response to such instabilities may have an adverse effect on our business conditions, including our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products. Rising political tensions and negative publicity about Israel may negatively impact demand for our products. Our principal offices are located in Ramat Gan, Israel. A number of groups in several countries have called for consumer boycotts of Israeli products. While many of those boycotts are focused on products originating in the West Bank and Ramat Gan is not in that area, other boycotts do not differentiate between different areas under Israeli control. Various political events from time to time have led to the revival or intensification of boycott efforts. The United States recently launched an initiative to facilitate a peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians. Those efforts have not yet produced concrete results, and it is unclear as to whether they will lead to any interim or final agreements. A failure of the talks to produce results could trigger expressions of frustration worldwide, including, but not limiting, renewed boycott efforts which have already been threatened. Existing or future boycott efforts might adversely affect our sales efforts, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Our operations may be disrupted by the obligation of key personnel to perform military service. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 42 (or older, for citizens who hold certain positions in the Israeli armed forces reserves) are obligated, unless exempt, to perform military reserve duty annually and some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are so obligated. Moreover, in the event of armed conflict in which Israel is involved or the threat of such conflict, our executive officers and employees might be called for active military duty for an unlimited period of time. Increased military activity could also result in a reduction of prospective qualified employees available to work for us to expand our business or replace employees on active military duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of our executive officers or key employees as a result of military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our ability to develop and market products. We may not be able to expand our personnel or marketing efforts quickly enough to support our growth. Because of our small size and our business strategy to increase our sales we anticipate an increased demand on all of our resources. To the extent that our efforts to generate new business and increase demand for our products and services are successful, we will need to accurately estimate our need for personnel or marketing and customer support, or we may not be able to support our future growth. For example, if we are successful in our efforts to obtain significant orders for our products, we may be required to install and service, on a timely basis, large numbers of installations at our customers’ locations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to provide such services on adequate terms and conditions or at all. Furthermore, in order to remain competitive and keep our products up to date, we need to continue to attract and retain a qualified team of employees. If we fail to obtain the human resources our business requires, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial conditions and results of operations. Government grants we received for research and development expenditures may be reduced or eliminated in the future due to Israeli government budget cuts. Furthermore, our receipt of such grants limits our ability to develop products and transfer technologies outside of Israel, and require us to satisfy specified conditions. In 2013, as several times in the past, we received grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry Trade and Labor, or the OCS, under the Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984 for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. Such grants bear royalties on sales of products utilizing technologies developed using such grants or arising out of such technologies up to a maximum of 100% of the amount of participation received, linked to the dollar, plus interest at the LIBOR rate for 12 month loans on the first day of trading in the year during which the grant was approved. The total grants received in 2013 were about $214,000. The terms of the OCS grants limit our ability to develop products and transfer technologies outside of Israel without the prior approval of the OCS, if such products or technologies were developed using OCS grants or arose out of such technologies. The Israeli government may decide not to continue the program in the future at its current level or to terminate it altogether. Such approval, if granted, will generally be subject to additional financial obligations. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the OCS, including the payment of royalties with respect to grants received, we may be required to refund any payments previously received from the OCS, together with interest and penalties. See also “Governmental Regulation” in Item 4 below. If we fail to satisfy the conditions specified under Israeli law, we may be denied benefits to which we are currently entitled or may be entitled to in the future. Our activities in Israel have been granted “Approved Enterprise” (established plan) and "Benefited Enterprise" status under "The Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959", or the Investment Law, as amended. The benefits available to an Approved Enterprise program or a Benefited Enterprise are normally in the form of favorable tax rates and are dependent upon the continuing fulfillment of ongoing conditions stipulated in the certificate of approval or under applicable law. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, benefits from tax exemptions or reduced tax rates would likely be denied us in the future. 13 For a description of the investment law and its recent material amendments, see “Additional Information-Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959.” The application and/or amendment of Israeli laws or laws of other countries may adversely affect our ability to enforce judgments or other rights. Because our principal offices are located in Israel, we are subject to Israeli law. Many of our contracts with third parties are subject to the laws of other jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that any judgments granted in the United States or any jurisdiction other than Israel would be capable of enforcement or execution in Israel. Nor can we assure you that any of our contracts pursuant to the laws of any foreign country are enforceable by us. The inability to enforce or execute judgments or other rights and/or the possibility of the laws of various jurisdictions being amended from time to time may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, and financial condition. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors, assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel or serve process on substantially all of our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. Most of our executive officers and directors are nonresidents of the United States, and a majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any such persons or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws if they conclude Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court would agree to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Additionally, there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete, and, therefore, we may be unable to prevent competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. In general, we have entered into non-competition agreements with our employees in Israel. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under current law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise that our former employees gained while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer that have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to our material interests, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our ordinary shares have been subject to frequent significant price fluctuations. Trading in shares of companies listed on the NASDAQ and TASE in general and trading in shares of technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market and industry fluctuations may depress our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. 14 In addition, the trading price of our ordinary shares has been highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: · actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; · litigation or the threat of litigation; · failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts, if any; · announcements regarding new or existing products or services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; · conditions or trends in the software industry; · additions or departures of key personnel or directors; · regulatory developments in the United States and other countries in which we operate; · developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property rights; · general market conditions; · overall fluctuations in the U.S. and Israeli equity markets; and · economic and other external factors or disasters or crises. 15 If we fail to maintain NASDAQ minimum price requirements, the TASE minimum valuation requirements or other applicable continued listing requirements, our ordinary shares could be delisted. According to NASDAQ listing standards, if the stock price of a listed company falls below $1.00 a share for a period of 30 consecutive business days, such company’s stock may be subject to delisting unless such failure is cured within 180 days from the date on which NASDAQ notifies the listed company of such failure. There were periods in 2009 and 2010 during which our stock price fell below $1.00 per share. According to the TASE rules, a company with stock that trades on both the TASE and NASDAQ must comply with the TASE minimum valuation requirements which currently provide that it must have a minimum market capitalization of NIS 25 million. If the company does not comply with the minimum valuation requirements, compliance with which is being tested on a semi-annual basis, it is given six months to regain compliance or be delisted. Our ordinary shares were in compliance with the minimum valuation requirements as of March 11, 2014. If we fail to maintain the minimum price for our ordinary shares required by NASDAQ, maintain the minimum valuation required by TASE rules, or comply with other continued listing requirements of these exchanges, our ordinary shares could be delisted. In addition, if our ordinary shares are delisted from NASDAQ, we will lose our status as a “dually-listed company” which will result in us being subject to different reporting requirements under Israeli securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Israeli Securities Authority and the TASE which may cause an increase in our reporting related costs and expenses. In addition, the rules and regulations of the Israeli Securities Authority and the TASE will require our financial reports to be prepared in accordance with a different accounting method than we currently utilize, which will result in increases in our reporting related costs and expenses. A large number of our ordinary shares could be sold in the market in the near future, which would cause downward pressure on the market price for our ordinary shares. As of March 11, 2014, we had approximately 15,406,976 ordinary shares outstanding, of which 12,979,992 were held by shareholders who were not our directors, executive officers and more than 10% shareholders. Since the effectiveness of the registration statement on Form F-3, the selling security holders named in that registration statement have been able to freely sell all of the ordinary shares covered by such registration statement, which is substantial in relation to our outstanding ordinary shares and public float of our ordinary shares. In addition, a substantial portion of our shares is currently freely trading without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, having been registered for resale or held by their holders for over one year and are eligible for sale under Rule 144. As of March 11, 2014, there were outstanding options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 1,479,675 ordinary shares. During the first quarter of 2014, we closed on an underwritten public offering of 3,162,500 of our ordinary shares at a per share sale price of $4.75 per share, a discount to the market price of our ordinary shares immediately prior to the offering. The offering significantly increased the number of our ordinary shares outstanding and sales pursuant to the offering had the effect of lowering the market price of our ordinary shares from market prices before the offering. Furthermore, if our shareholders determine to sell a significant number of shares into the market or there is a perception that the holders intend to sell these shares, including upon their exercise of options or warrants, there likely will not be a sufficient demand in the market to purchase the shares without a decline in the market price of our ordinary shares. Moreover, continuous sales into the market of a number of shares in excess of the typical trading market for our ordinary shares, or even the availability of such a large number of shares, could depress the trading market for our ordinary shares over an extended period of time. In addition, our recent registration statement on Form F-3 included our registration of the resale of up to 850,000 of our ordinary shares by Izhak Nakar, our Active Chairman of the Board, Ido Schechter, our former CEO and current director, and Alex Toh Kian Hong. Mr. Hong is the Managing Director of certain of our Asian operations. While Mr. Nakar and Dr. Schechter’s resale is restricted by a lockup agreement with the underwriters in our recent offering which expires no earlier than April 21, 2014, once the restriction expires, a sale of their ordinary shares could result in an increase in the number of our securities in the markets and have a negative effect on our trading price. In addition, even if those individuals sell shares for personal reasons, public perception of sales by insiders may result in negative publicity that could further negatively impact our share price. 16 Future issuances of our ordinary shares could adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares and could result in substantial dilution to shareholders. We may need to issue substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in financings or acquisitions in the future. To the extent that the market price of our ordinary shares declines, we will need to issue an increasing number of ordinary shares per dollar of equity investment. In order to obtain future financing if required, it is likely that we will issue additional ordinary shares or financial instruments that are exchangeable for or convertible into ordinary shares. Capital raising activities, if available, and dilution associated with such activities could cause our share price to decline. Also, in order to compensate our directors, provide incentives to our employees and induce prospective employees and consultants to work for us, from time to time we offer and issue options to purchase ordinary shares and/or rights exchangeable for or convertible into ordinary shares. Future issuances of shares could result in substantial dilution to shareholders. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ and on the TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is effected in different currencies (US dollars on the NASDAQ and New Israeli Shekels on the TASE) and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ, resulting from the factors described above as well as differences in exchange rates and from political events and economic conditions in the United States and Israel. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. Our ordinary shares may become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules. Generally, transactions in securities that are traded in the United States at a market price per share of less than $5.00, may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional investors: · must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. As a result of these requirements, if our ordinary shares become subject to the “penny stock” rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our ordinary shares in the United States may be significantly limited. Some broker-dealers have adopted a policy under which they refuse to allow clients to hold penny stocks in their brokerage accounts, or refuse to open new accounts holding penny stocks. Accordingly, the market price of our ordinary shares may be depressed or limited, and investors may find it more difficult to sell the shares. 17 We have not paid dividends in the past. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We have retained any future earnings to finance operations and to expand our business and, therefore, may not pay any cash dividends in the future. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by the Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999, or the Companies Law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, pursuant to the Companies Law each shareholder of an Israeli company has to act in good faith in exercising its rights and fulfilling its obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders and class meetings, on amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers, and transactions requiring shareholders’ approval under the Companies Law. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company, or has other powers toward the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on NASDAQ, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on NASDAQ, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Listing Rules. As a foreign private issuer listed on NASDAQ, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors and quorum at shareholders' meetings. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer's home country certifying that the issuer's practices are not prohibited by the home country's laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ's corporate governance rules. Provisions of Israeli law could delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. The Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and by the shareholders of a participating company by the vote of a majority of the shares of each class present and voting on the proposed merger. The Companies Law has specific provisions for determining the majority of the shareholder vote. Upon the request of any creditor of a constituent in the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy its obligations to creditors. In general, a merger may not be completed until the passage of certain statutory time periods. In certain circumstances, an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer that complies with certain requirements of the Companies Law that differ from those that apply to U.S. corporations. Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which, if public trading in our ordinary shares resumes, could depress our share price. 18 We are a foreign private issuer and you will receive less information about us than you would from a domestic U.S. corporation. As a “foreign private issuer”, we are exempt from rules under the Exchange Act that impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements in connection with proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders also are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder with respect to their purchases and sales of our shares. In addition, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. As a result, you may not be able to obtain the same information relating to us as you would for a domestic U.S. corporation. Although our internal control over financial reporting was considered effective as of December 31, 2013, there is no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to be effective in the future, which could result in our financial statements being unreliable, government investigation or loss of investor confidence in our financial reports. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. We may also identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting has not been audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. In the future, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls are effective; our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities. 