Risk Factors”, and elsewhere in this Annual Report. ITEM 1. IDENTITY OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND ADVISERS 3 ITEM 2. OFFER STATISTICS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE 3 ITEM 3. KEY INFORMATION 3 A. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 3 B. CAPITALIZATION AND INDEBTEDNESS 4 C. REASONS FOR THE OFFER AND USE OF PROCEEDS 4 D. RISK FACTORS 4 ITEM 4. INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY 15 A. HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPANY 15 B. BUSINESS OVERVIEW 16 C. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE 30 D. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 33 ITEM 4A. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 34 ITEM 5. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS 34 A. OPERATING RESULTS 34 B. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 40 C. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES, ETC 42 D. TREND INFORMATION 42 E. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 42 F. TABULAR DISCLOSURE OF CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS 42 ITEM 6. DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES 43 A. DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 43 B. COMPENSATION 45 C. BOARD PRACTICES 46 D. EMPLOYEES 51 E. SHARE OWNERSHIP 52 ITEM 7. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 55 A. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 55 B. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 57 C. INTERESTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL 57 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 57 A. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION 57 B. SIGNIFICANT CHANGES 58 ITEM 9. THE OFFER AND LISTING 58 A. OFFER AND LISTING DETAILS 58 B. PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION 59 C. MARKETS 59 D. SELLING SHAREHOLDERS 59 E. DILUTION 59 F. EXPENSES OF THE ISSUE 59 ITEM 10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 60 A. SHARE CAPITAL 60 B. MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 60 C. MATERIAL CONTRACTS 65 D. EXCHANGE CONTROLS 66 E. TAXATION 66 F. DIVIDENDS AND PAYING AGENTS 75 G. STATEMENT BY EXPERTS 75 H. DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY 76 I. SUBSIDIARY INFORMATION 76 ITEM 11. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 76 ITEM 12. DESCRIPTION OF SECURITIES OTHER THAN EQUITY SECURITIES 76 ITEM 13. DEFAULTS, DIVIDEND ARREARAGES AND DELINQUENCIES 77 ITEM 14. MATERIAL MODIFICATIONS TO THE RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS AND USE OF PROCEEDS 77 ITEM 15. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 77 ITEM 16A. AUDIT COMMITTEE FINANCIAL EXPERT 77 ITEM 16B. CODE OF ETHICS 78 ITEM 16C. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 78 ITEM 16D. EXEMPTIONS FROM THE LISTING STANDARDS FOR AUDIT COMMITTEES 79 ITEM 16E. PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES BY THE ISSUER AND AFFILIATED PURCHASERS 79 ITEM 17. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 80 ITEM 18. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 80 ITEM 19. EXHIBITS 80 PART I ITEM 1. IDENTITY OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND ADVISERS Not applicable. ITEM 2. OFFER STATISTICS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE Not applicable. ITEM 3. KEY INFORMATION A. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated statements of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2005 and 2006, have been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of On Track Innovations Ltd. (together with its subsidiaries, referred to as the Company or OTI) set forth elsewhere in this annual report. These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The selected consolidated statements of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003 and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements not included in this annual report, which have also been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The selected consolidated financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with and are qualified by reference to our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, as well as “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects,” included elsewhere in this annual report. Effective as of June 17, 2002, we consummated a one to ten reverse share split of our ordinary shares, such that every ten ordinary shares of NIS 0.01 par value became one ordinary share of NIS 0.1 par value. All shares, per share, warrants and options amounts in the consolidated financial statements have been adjusted to give retroactive effect to this reverse share split for all periods presented. Year ended December 31 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 (In thousands, except share and per share data) REVENUES Sales $ 17,312 $ 18,787 $ 20,915 $ 32,266 $ 35,171 Licensing and transaction fees 651 808 2,237 3,398 5,382 Total revenues 17,963 19,595 23,152 35,664 40,553 COST OF REVENUES Sales 9,502 9,478 12,799 21,629 21,871 Total cost of revenues 9,502 9,478 12,799 21,629 21,871 Gross profit 8,461 10,117 10,353 14,035 18,682 OPERATING EXPENSES Research and development 4,459 3,159 3,544 5,405 7,065 Less-- participation by the Office of the Chief Scientist 1,103 853 394 618 - Research and development, net 3,356 2,306 3,150 4,787 7,065 Selling and marketing 3,869 4,092 6,010 7,620 7,072 General and administrative 5,183 5,853 6,549 9,666 11,948 Amortization of goodwill and intangible assets 161 188 261 700 821 Expenses relating to raising of capital, exchange of subsidiary's employees equity interest in equity interests of the Company and new acquisitions in the Far East - - 3,227 1,768 - Gain from sale of subsidiary (374 ) (122 ) Total operating expenses 12,569 12,439 19,197 24,167 26,784 Operating loss (4,108 ) (2,322 ) (8,844 ) (10,132 ) (8,102 ) Financial income (expense), net 41 (897 ) (287 ) 669 1,712 Other income (expense), net (1,955 ) (244 ) 29 (84 ) (75 ) Loss before taxes on income (6,022 ) (3,463 ) (9,102 ) (9,547 ) (6,465 ) Taxes on income (207 ) (104 ) (173 ) 175 323 Equity in net losses of affiliated company - - - - (1,087 ) Minority share in income (loss) of subsidiaries (19 ) - - (185 ) 625 Loss before extraordinary item (6,248 ) (3,567 ) (9,275 ) (9,557 ) (6,604 ) Extraordinary item - - - 444 - Net loss $ (6,248 ) $ (3,567 ) $ (9,275 ) $ (9,113 ) $ (6,604 ) Basic and diluted net loss per ordinary share from: Loss before extraordinary item $ (3.76 ) $ (1.52 ) $ (1.33 ) $ (1.01 ) $ (0.47 ) Extraordinary item - - - 0.05 - Net loss $ (3.76 ) $ (1.52 ) $ (1.33 ) $ (0.96 ) $ (0.47 ) Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in computing net loss per ordinary share - basic and diluted 1,661,170 2,354,254 6,972,878 9,512,198 13,919,958 3 As of December 31 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,145 $ 9,712 $ 23,917 $ 29,657 $ 30,049 Total current assets 10,821 18,884 39,423 67,914 70,889 Total assets 24,019 31,268 52,003 85,058 117,174 Total liabilities 12,978 11,965 13,311 14,513 17,016 Long term loans, net of current maturities 4,006 3,121 2,018 1,535 2,117 Total shareholders' equity 11,041 19,303 38,692 70,235 99,154 B. CAPITALIZATION AND INDEBTEDNESS Not applicable. C. REASONS FOR THE OFFER AND USE OF PROCEEDS Not applicable. D. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, among others, could in the future affect our actual results of operations and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. Before you decide to buy, hold, or sell our ordinary shares, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this annual report. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs. In that event, the market price for our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 4 Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and expect to continue to incur full-year losses at least through 2007. We have incurred losses in each year since we commenced operations in 1990. We reported net losses $6.2 million in 2002, $3.6 million in 2003, $9.3 million in 2004 $9.1 million in 2005 and $6.6 million in 2006. We expect to incur full year losses at least through 2007, as we invest in the expansion of our global marketing network, reduce our product prices in return for transaction fees based on the volume of transactions in systems that contain our products, enhance our research and development capabilities and expand our internal manufacturing capabilities. If the market for smart cards in general, and for contactless microprocessor-based smart cards in particular, does not grow, sales of our products may not grow and may even decline. The success of our products depends on commercial enterprises, governmental authorities and other potential card issuers adopting contactless microprocessor-based smart card technologies. Other card technologies, such as magnetic strips or bar codes, are widely used and could be viewed by potential customers as more cost effective alternatives to our products. Additionally, potential customers in developed countries such as the United States may already have installed systems that are based on technologies different from ours and may therefore be less willing to incur the capital expenditures required to install or upgrade to a contactless microprocessor-based smart card system. As a result, we cannot assure you that there will be significant market opportunities for contactless microprocessor-based smart card products. If demand for contactless microprocessor-based smart card products such as ours does not develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may have fewer opportunities for growth than we expect. If we fail to develop new products or adapt our existing products for use in new markets, our revenue growth may be impeded and we may incur significant losses. To date, we have sold products incorporating our technology within a limited number of markets. We are currently developing and marketing products such as medical cards for use in hospitals and identity cards for use by governmental authorities. We are devoting significant resources to developing and marketing these and other products and adapting our existing products for use in new markets. If we fail to develop new products or adapt our existing products for new markets, we may not recoup the expenses incurred in our efforts to do so, our revenue growth may be impeded and we may incur significant losses. We have acquired several companies or groups of companies and we intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future. The failure to successfully integrate acquired companies and businesses or to acquire new companies and businesses may harm our financial performance and growth. We just completed the acquisition of the main assets of SuperCom and a production line of Barun. In addition, in the past we acquired several other companies around the world. We paid for all of these acquisitions through the issuance of our ordinary shares (and in certain cases, warrants to purchase ordinary shares). These and future acquisitions could result in: — difficulties in integrating our operations, technologies, products and services with those of the acquired companies; — difficulty in integrating operations that are spread across significant geographic distances; — diversion of our capital and our management's attention away from other business issues; — potential loss of key employees and customers of companies we acquire; — increased liabilities as a result of liabilities of the companies we acquire; and — dilution of shareholdings in the event we acquire companies in exchange for our shares. We may not successfully integrate any technologies, manufacturing facilities or distribution channels that we have or may acquire and we cannot assure you that any of our recent acquisitions will be successful. In addition, if we do not acquire new companies and businesses in the future, our business may not grow as expected. If any of our recent or future acquisitions are not successful, our financial performance and business may be adversely affected. 5 We derive a portion of our revenues from sales to systems integrators that are not the end-users of our products. We are to a certain extent dependent on the ability of these integrators to maintain their existing business and secure new business. In 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, 28%, 16%, 9% and 8%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales to systems integrators that incorporate our products into systems which they supply and install for use in a specific project. To the extent our revenues depend on the ability of systems integrators to successfully market, sell, install and provide technical support for systems in which our products are integrated or to sell our products on a stand-alone basis, our revenues may decline if the efforts of these systems integrators fail. Further, the faulty or negligent implementation and installation of our products by systems integrators may harm our reputation and dilute our brand name. Because we are one step removed from the end-users of our products, it may be more difficult for us to rectify damage to our reputation caused by systems integrators that have direct contact with end-users. In addition, termination of agreements with systems integrators or revocation of exclusive distribution rights within certain countries can be difficult. If we are unable to maintain our current relationships with systems integrators or develop relationships with new systems integrators, we may not be able to sell our products and our results of operations could be impaired. Unless we continue to expand our direct sales, our future success will depend upon the timing and size of future purchases by systems integrators and the success of the projects and services for which they use our products. Our dependence on third party distributors, sales agents, and value-added resellers could result in marketing and distribution delays which would prevent us from generating sales revenues. We market and sell some of our products using a network of distributors covering several major world regions, including the United States. We establish relationships with distributors and resellers through written agreements that provide prices, discounts and other material terms and conditions under which the reseller is eligible to purchase our systems and products for resale. These agreements generally do not grant exclusivity to the distributors and resellers and, as a general matter, are fixed-term contracts, do not always have commitments for minimum sales and can be terminated by the distributor. We are currently engaged in discussions with other potential distributors, sales agents, and value-added resellers. Such arrangements may never be finalized and, if finalized, such arrangements may not increase our revenues or enable us to achieve profitability. Our ability to terminate a distributor that is not performing satisfactorily may be limited. Inadequate performance by a distributor may affect our ability to develop markets in the regions for which the distributor is responsible and could result in substantially greater expenditures by us in order to develop such markets. Our operating results will be highly dependent upon: (i) our ability to maintain our existing distributor arrangements; (ii) our ability to establish and maintain coverage of major geographic areas and establish access to customers and markets; and (iii) the ability of our distributors, sales agents, and value-added resellers to successfully market our products. A failure to achieve these objectives could result in lower revenues. Our revenue growth may be impaired if we are unable to maintain our current, and establish new, strategic relationships. The markets for our products are usually highly specialized and require us to enter into strategic relationships in order to facilitate or accelerate our penetration into new markets. We consider a relationship to be strategic when we integrate our technology into some of the product offerings of a manufacturer or systems integrator that has a significant position in a specified market, and then we cooperate in marketing the resulting product. The termination of any of our strategic relationships or our failure to develop additional relationships in the future may limit our ability to expand the markets in which our products are deployed or to sell particular products. The terms of certain of our agreements may restrict our ability to take actions that we believe to be desirable. Pursuant to certain agreements we have entered into with our suppliers, distributors and joint venture partners, we have agreed to restrict ourselves in some areas of business for different time periods, ranging from several months to several years. In addition, in certain markets, we sell our products through distributors which, in general, have exclusive distribution rights in that market if specified sales quotas are met. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition if these partners do not perform in a satisfactory manner. We face intense competition. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business prospects will be impaired. We face intense competition from developers of contact and contactless microprocessor-based technologies and products, developers of contactless products that use other types of technologies that are not microprocessor-based, and non-smart card technologies. We compete on the basis of a range of competitive factors including price, compatibility with the products of other manufacturers, and the ability to support new industry standards and introduce new reliable technologies. Many of our competitors, including Philips Semiconductors, a division of Philips Electronics N.V., and Infineon Technologies AG have greater market recognition, larger customer bases, and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we possess. As a result, they may be able to introduce new products, respond to customer requirements and adapt to evolving industry standards more quickly than we can. In addition, we may not be able to differentiate our products sufficiently from those of our competitors. 6 From time to time, we or one or more of our present or future competitors may announce new or enhanced products or technologies that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of our existing products. The announcement of new or enhanced products may cause customers to delay or alter their purchasing decisions in anticipation of such products, and new products developed by our competitors may render our products obsolete or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. If we cannot compete successfully with our existing and future competitors, we could experience lower sales, price reductions, loss of revenues, reduced gross margins and reduced market share. If there is a sustained increase in demand for microprocessors, availability might be limited and prices might increase. Our products require microprocessors. The microprocessor industry periodically experiences increased demand and limited availability due to production capacity constraints. Increased demand for, or limited availability of, microprocessors could substantially increase the cost of producing our products. Because some of our customer contracts have fixed prices, we may not be able to pass on any increases in costs to these customers, and consequently our profit margin could be reduced. In addition, as a result of a shortage, we may be compelled to delay shipments of our products, or devote additional resources to maintaining higher levels of microprocessor inventory. Consequently, we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our cost of revenues and, therefore, in our future results of operations. Our products have long development cycles and we may expend significant resources in relation to a specific project without realizing any revenues. The development cycle for our products varies from project to project. Typically, the projects in which we are involved are complex and require that we customize our products to our customers’ needs and specifications in return for payment of a fixed amount. We then conduct evaluation, testing, implementation and acceptance procedures of the customized products with the customer. Only after successful completion of these procedures will customers place orders for our products in commercial quantities. In addition, our contracts do not typically include minimum purchase requirements. We, therefore, cannot assure that future contracts will result in commercial sales. Our average development cycle is typically between 18 and 24 months from initial contact with a potential customer until we deliver commercial quantities to the customer and recognize significant revenues. As a result, we may expend financial, management and other resources to develop customer relationships before we recognize any revenues. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance may create volatility in the market price of our shares and may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied substantially in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations may be driven by various factors which are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and may not meet the expectations of analysts and investors. These factors include the following: — The size and timing of orders placed by our government customers is difficult to predict. Government projects typically involve a protracted competitive procurement process and in some circumstances litigation following the award of a contract. For example, we started to prepare our offer for the Israeli national electronic parking system project in 1992, we were awarded the contract in May 1998 and deployment began in January 2000. We started recognizing revenues in the second half of 2000. — The fact that our rental expenses are fixed and we may not be able to reduce these expenses in the event of a reduction in revenues in a particular quarter. In addition, our payroll expenses are relatively fixed and we would not expect to reduce our workforce due to a reduction in revenues in any particular quarter. — The tendency of our clients to place orders for products toward the last quarter of their financial year. Because of these factors, our revenues and operating results in any quarter may not be indicative of our future performance, and it may be difficult for you to evaluate our prospects. 7 Delays or discontinuance of the supply of components may hamper our ability to produce our products on a timely basis and cause short-term adverse effects. The components we use in our products, including microprocessors and cards, are supplied by third party suppliers and manufacturers. Except for Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., currently the sole supplier of the chip that integrates our antenna interface into Samsung’s microprocessor, none of these suppliers is a sole supplier. Nevertheless, we sometimes experience short-term adverse effects due to delayed shipments that have in the past interrupted and delayed, and could in the future interrupt and delay, the supply of our products to our customers, and may result in cancellation of orders for our products. In addition, we do not generally have long term supply contracts under which our suppliers are committed to supply us with components at a fixed price. Suppliers could increase component prices significantly without warning or could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our products. We may not be able to develop alternative sources for product components if and as required in the future. Even if we are able to identify alternative sources of supply, we may need to modify our products to render them compatible with other components. This may cause delays in product shipments, increase manufacturing costs and increase product prices. Because some of our suppliers are located in Europe and the Far East, we may experience logistical problems in our supply chain, including long lead times for receipt of products or components and shipping delays. In addition, our subcontractors located in Israel and the Far East may, on occasion, feel the impact of potential economic or political instability in their regions, which could affect their ability to supply us with components for our products in a timely manner. If we fail to hire, train and retain qualified research and development personnel, our ability to enhance our existing products, develop new products and compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to hire, train and retain qualified research and development personnel. Individuals who have expertise in research and development in our industry are scarce. Competition for such personnel in the electronics industry is intense, particularly in Israel. Consequently, hiring, training and retaining such personnel is both time consuming and expensive. In addition, it may be difficult to attract qualified personnel to Rosh Pina, which is in the North of Israel. If we fail to hire, train and retain employees with skills in research and development, we may not be able to enhance our existing products or develop new products. Our ability to compete depends on our continuing right to use, and our ability to protect, our intellectual property rights. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part on using our intellectual property and proprietary rights to protect our technology and products. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, design, copyright and trade secret law, as well as confidentiality agreements and other contractual relationships with our employees, customers, affiliates, distributors and others. While substantially all of our employees are subject to non-compete agreements, these agreements may be difficult to enforce as a result of Israeli law limiting the scope of employee non-competition undertakings. We currently have patents registered in the United States, Israel and other countries covering some of our technology, and have pending applications in the United States, Europe, the Far East, Israel and elsewhere which have not yet resulted in granted patents. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued with respect to any of our pending or future patent applications or that the scope of our existing patents, or any future patents that are issued to us, will provide us with adequate protection for our technology and products. Others may challenge our patents or registered trademarks. We do not know whether any of them will be upheld as valid or will be enforceable against alleged infringers. Thus we do not know whether they will enable us to prevent or hinder the development of competing products or technologies. Moreover, patents provide legal protection only in the countries where they are registered and the extent of the protection granted by patents varies from country to country. The measures we have taken to protect our technology and products may not be sufficient to prevent their misappropriation by third parties or independent development by others of similar technologies or products. Competitors may also develop competing technology by designing around our patents and thereafter manufacturing and selling products that compete directly with ours. In order to protect our technology and products and enforce our patents and other proprietary rights, we may need to initiate, prosecute or defend litigation and other proceedings before courts and patent and trademark offices in numerous countries. These legal and administrative proceedings could be expensive and could occupy significant management time and resources. 8 Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others. It is not always possible to know with certainty whether or not the manufacture and sale of our products does or will infringe patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. For example, patent applications may be pending at any time which, if granted, cover products that we developed or are developing. In certain jurisdictions, the subject matter of patents is not published until the patents are issued. Third parties may from time to time claim that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. In addition, if third parties claim that our customers are violating their intellectual property rights, our customers may seek indemnification from us (which could be costly), or may terminate their relationships with us. Our products depend on operating systems licensed to us and we may also be subject to claims by third parties that our use of these operating systems infringes their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claim could involve time-consuming and disruptive litigation that, if determined adversely to us, could prevent us from making or selling our products, subject us to substantial monetary damages or require us to seek licenses. Intellectual property rights litigation is complex and costly, and we cannot be sure of the outcome of any litigation. Even if we prevail, the cost of litigation could harm our results of operations. In addition, litigation is time consuming and could divert our management’s attention and resources away from our business. If we do not prevail in any litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we might be required to discontinue the use of certain processes, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products and solutions, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses on unfavorable terms. Licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, some licenses are non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or cannot design around any third party patents or otherwise avoid infringements, we may be unable to sell some of our products. The loss of the services of our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Oded Bashan, could seriously harm our business. Our success depends, in part, on the continued services of Oded Bashan, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Bashan is one of our founders and has developed our business and technology strategy since our inception. The loss of services of Mr. Bashan could disrupt our operations and harm our business. We are susceptible to changes in international markets and difficulties with international operations could harm our business. Since 2001, we have derived revenues from different geographical areas. The following table sets forth our sales in different geographical areas as a percentage of revenues: Africa Europe Far East Americas Israel 2002 13 67 3 12 5 2003 15 66 1 10 8 2004 11 64 6 11 8 2005 11 26 15 39 9 2006 8 35 29 20 8 Our ability to maintain our position in existing markets and to penetrate new, regional and local markets, is dependent, in part, on the stability of regional and local economies. Our regional sales may continue to fluctuate widely and may be adversely impacted by future political or economic instability in these or other foreign countries or regions. In addition, there are inherent risks in these international operations which include: — changes in regulatory requirements and communications standards; 9 — required licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; — difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights across, or having to litigate disputes in, various jurisdictions; — difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; — potentially adverse tax consequences; and — the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex laws and treaties in various jurisdictions. If we are unable to manage the risks associated with our focus on international sales, our business may be harmed. Because we report in dollars while a portion of our revenues and expenses is incurred in other currencies, currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We generate a significant portion of our revenues in U.S. dollars but we incur a large portion of our expenses in other currencies, principally some employees’ salaries in New Israeli Shekels, and the majority of the expenses of our German and Polish subsidiaries, InterCard and ASEC, in euros and of our subsidiary in the Far East, MCT, in Yuan Renminbi. To the extent that we and our subsidiaries based in Israel, Europe and the Far East conduct our business in different currencies, our revenues and expenses and, as a result, our assets and liabilities, are not necessarily accounted for in the same currency. We are, therefore, exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. These fluctuations may negatively affect our results of operations. Our operations could also be adversely affected if we are unable to limit our exposure to currency fluctuations in the future. Accordingly, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the New Israeli Shekel or other currencies. However, these measures may not adequately protect us from material adverse effects resulting from currency fluctuations. In addition, if we wish to maintain the dollar-denominated value of sales made in other currencies, any devaluation of the other currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would require us to increase our other currency denominated sales price. That could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders. We may have to adapt our products in order to integrate them into our customers’ systems if new government regulations or industry standards are adopted or current regulations or standards are changed. Some of our products are subject to government regulation in the countries in which they are used. For example, card readers used in the United States and in Europe require certification of compliance with regulations of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission and the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, respectively, regarding emission limits of radio frequency devices. In addition, governmental certification for the systems into which our products are integrated may be required. The International Standards Organization is in the process of approving industry standards regulating the transfer of data between contactless smart cards and a reader. If there is a change in government regulations or industry standards, we may have to make significant modifications to our products and, as a result, could incur significant costs and may be unable to deploy our products in a timely manner. In addition, prior to purchasing our products, some customers may require us to receive or obtain a third party certification, or occasionally certify ourselves, that our products can be integrated successfully into their systems or comply with applicable regulations. Receipt of third party certifications may not occur in a timely manner or at all. In some cases, in order for our products, or for the system into which they are integrated, to be certified, we may have to make significant product modifications. Failure to receive third party certifications could render us unable to deploy our products in a timely manner or at all. Our products may contain defects that are only discovered after the products have been deployed. This could harm our reputation, result in loss of customers and revenues and subject us to product liability claims. Our products are highly technical and deployed as part of large and complex projects. Because of the nature of our products, they can only be fully tested when fully deployed. For example, the testing of our parking payment product required the distribution of sample parking payment cards to drivers, installation of electronic kiosks at which a card holder can increase the balance on his or her card, linking of kiosks to financial and parking databases, collection of data through handheld terminals, processing of data that is collected by the system, compilation of reports and clearing of parking transactions. Any defects in our products could result in: — harm to our reputation; 10 — loss of, or delay in, revenues; — loss of customers and market share; — failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products; and — unexpected expenses to remedy errors. In addition, we could be exposed to potential product liability claims. While we currently maintain product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that this insurance will be sufficient to cover any successful product liability claim. Any product liability claim could result in changes to our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of a large deductible or co-insurance requirements. Any product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of our cash reserves. Furthermore, the assertion of product liability claims, regardless of the merits underlying the claim, could result in substantial costs to us, divert management’s attention away from our operations and damage our reputation. We have sought U.S. government contracts in the past and may seek additional U.S. government contracts in the future, which subjects us to certain risks associated with such types of contracts. Most U.S. government contracts are awarded through a competitive bidding process, and some of the business that we expect to seek in the future likely will be subject to a competitive bidding process. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including: — the frequent need to compete against companies or teams of companies with more financial and marketing resources and more experience than we have in bidding on and performing major contracts; — the need to compete against companies or teams of companies that may be long-term, entrenched incumbents for a particular contract we are competing for and which have, as a result, greater domain expertise and established customer relations; — the need to compete on occasion to retain existing contracts that have in the past been awarded to us on a sole-source basis; — the substantial cost and managerial time and effort necessary to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; — the need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any fixed-price contract that we are awarded; and — the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge new contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding or subsequent contract modifications, and the risk that any of these protests or challenges could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. We may not be afforded the opportunity in the future to bid on contracts that are held by other companies and are scheduled to expire if the U.S. government determines to extend the existing contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through the competitive bidding process, we may not be able to operate in the market for products and services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to win new contract awards or retain those contracts, if any, that we are awarded over any extended period, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, U.S. government contracts subject us to risks associated with public budgetary restrictions and uncertainties, actual contracts that are less than awarded contract amounts, and cancellation at any time at the option of the government. Any failure to comply with the terms of any government contracts could result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as suspension from future contracts for a significant period of time, any of which could adversely affect our business by requiring us to pay significant fines and penalties or prevent us from earning revenues from government contracts during the suspension period. Cancellation of any one of our major government contracts, however, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The U.S. government may be in a position to obtain greater rights with respect to our intellectual property than we would grant to other entities. Government agencies also have the power, based on financial difficulties or investigations of their contractors, to deem contractors unsuitable for new contract awards. Because we will engage in the government contracting business, we will be subject to audits and may be subject to investigation by governmental entities. Failure to comply with the terms of any government contracts could result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as suspension from future government contracts for a significant period of time, any of which could adversely affect our business by requiring us to spend money to pay the fines and penalties and prohibiting us from earning revenues from government contracts during the suspension period. 11 In August 2005, OTI America, Inc. (“OTI America”) was one of several contractors that received contract awards from the United States Government Printing Office (“GPO”) for production of U.S. passports. The GPO issued a stop work order due to a protest filed by us regarding the evaluation of our product by the GPO. In December 2005, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims found in favor of OTI America. However, in July 2006, GPO notified us that we had been eliminated from the group of vendors being considered for the U.S. passport program. OTI challenged that decision in the United States Court of Federal Claims, which denied the Company’s challenge. OTI has appealed that denial to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our appeal. We may also incur additional legal fees in connection with the appeal. Terrorist attacks may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the financial markets on which our ordinary shares trade, the markets in which we operate, our operations and profitability and your investment. These attacks or subsequent armed conflicts resulting from or connected to them may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these terrorist attacks may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and/or expensive and affect the results of our operations. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our ordinary shares has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our ordinary shares may be significantly affected by factors such as the announcements of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors, technological innovations by us or our competitors or quarterly variations in our results of operations. In addition, any statements or changes in estimates by analysts covering our shares or relating to the smart card industry could result in an immediate effect that may be adverse to the market price of our shares. Trading in shares of companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Market in general and trading in shares of technology companies in particular has been subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations that have been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These factors may depress the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. Securities litigation has also often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. In the future, we may be the target of similar litigation that could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Our share price could be adversely affected by future sales of our ordinary shares. As of June 20, 2007, we had outstanding 19,238,938 ordinary shares, warrants to purchase 2,391,529 additional ordinary shares at a weighted average exercise price of $12.68 per share and options to purchase 1,919,528 additional ordinary shares at a weighted average exercise price of $3.5 per share. We may in the future sell or issue additional ordinary shares. The market price of our ordinary shares could drop as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market or the perception that such sales may occur, including sales or perceived sales by our directors, officers or principal shareholders. These factors could also make it more difficult to raise additional funds through future offerings of our ordinary shares or other securities. If our ordinary shares are ever considered a penny stock, any investment in our ordinary shares will be considered a high-risk investment and become subject to restrictions on marketability. If the bid price of our ordinary shares falls below $5.00 and we fail to maintain our Nasdaq listing, our ordinary shares may be deemed to be “penny stock” for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the “Exchange Act.” The bid price of our ordinary shares on June 20, 2007 was $6.40, but was less than $5.00 from February 26, 2003 until October 22, 2003. We continue to maintain our Nasdaq listing. Brokers effecting transactions in a penny stock are subject to additional customer disclosure and record keeping obligations. The additional obligations include disclosure of the risks associated with low price stocks, stock quote information and broker compensation. In addition, brokers making transactions in penny stocks are subject to additional sales practice requirements under the Exchange Act. These additional requirements include making inquiries into the suitability of penny stock investments for each customer or obtaining the prior written agreement of the customer for the penny stock purchase. Because of these additional obligations, some brokers will not effect transactions in penny stocks. If our shares are deemed a “penny stock” in the future, this designation could have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our ordinary shares and your ability to sell our ordinary shares. 12 Our shareholders could experience dilution of their ownership interest by reason of our issuing more shares. Under Israeli law, shareholders in public companies do not have preemptive rights. This means that our shareholders do not have the legal right to purchase shares in a new issue before they are offered to third parties. In addition, our board of directors may approve the issuance of shares in many instances without shareholders’ approval. As a result, our shareholders could experience dilution of their ownership interest by reason of our raising additional funds through the issuance of ordinary shares. In addition, we may continue to acquire companies or businesses in exchange for our shares, resulting in further dilution. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development of our business. In addition, if we would receive benefits under Israeli law for our “Approved Enterprises,” payment of a cash dividend may create additional tax liabilities for us. Our concentration of voting power will limit your ability to influence or control corporate actions. Oded Bashan currently has the right to vote approximately 27.5% of our outstanding shares by reason of his ownership of 677,803 of our outstanding shares, and his holding proxies to vote 5,297,315 additional ordinary shares that are owned by other shareholders (where he holds proxies to vote 4,612,050 of these ordinary shares as chairman of our board; however, our board of directors may designate someone else to hold these proxies; this includes SuperCom’s execution of an irrevocable proxy appointing the chairman to vote the 2,827,200 ordinary shares issued in connection with the transaction.) Mr. Bashan therefore has substantial voting power in comparison to our other shareholders and, accordingly, his vote in our shareholders’ meetings may influence the outcome of such meetings. We may fail to maintain effective internal control in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and in particular with Section 404 to it, a portion of which commenced in connection with this Annual Report on Form 20-F, have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Although our management has determined that we had effective internal control over financial reporting in 2006, we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our future internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting has not yet been audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. Following the implementation of SFAS No. 123R, we are required to record compensation expense in connection with share-based compensation and, as a result, our profitability may be reduced significantly. New accounting standard require that all share-based payments to employees to be recognized as a compensation expense based on their fair values. The adoption of this standard has, and is expected to continue to have, a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, if as a result of this new standard we would stop or limit the use of stock options as an incentive and retention tool, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to recruit and retain employees. 13 Risks Related to Israel Conditions in Israel may harm our ability to produce and sell our products and services and may adversely affect our share price. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and research and development facilities, as well as some of our suppliers, are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Despite the progress towards peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors, the future of these peace efforts remains uncertain. Since October 2000, there has been a substantial deterioration in the relationship between Israel and the Palestinian Authority and a significant increase in violence, primarily in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. During July 2006, an armed conflict between Israel and the Lebanese terror organization, Hezbollah, took place in northern Israel and Lebanon. The ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians or any future armed conflicts, political instability or continued violence in the region would likely have a negative effect on our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded Israeli companies such as us. In addition, Israel’s economy has been subject to numerous destabilizing factors, including a period of rampant inflation in the early to mid-1980s, low foreign exchange reserves, fluctuations in world commodity prices, military conflicts and civil unrest. Furthermore, several countries still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies, which may limit our ability to make sales in those countries. These restrictions may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or the expansion of our business. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of key personnel to perform Israel imilitary service. Some of our executive officers and employees must perform annual military reserve duty in Israel and may be called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees due to military service. Any disruption to our operations would harm our business. The Israeli government programs in which we currently participate, and the Israeli tax benefits we currently receive, require us to meet several conditions, and they may be terminated or reduced in the future. This could increase our costs and/or our taxes. We are entitled to certain tax benefits under Israeli government programs, largely as a result of the “Approved Enterprise” status granted to some of our capital investment programs by the Israeli Ministry of Industry and Trade. Taxable income derived from each program is tax exempt for a period of ten years beginning in the year in which the program first generates taxable income, up to 14 years from the date of approval or 12 years from the date of the beginning of production. Without such benefits our taxable income from such programs would be taxed at the regular corporate tax rate (31% in 2006, 29% in 2007, 27% in 2008, 26% in 2009 and 25% in 2010 and thereafter). To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions, including making specified investments in property, plant and equipment, 30% of which must be from paid-in capital. We cannot assure you that we will continue to receive these tax benefits at the same rate or at all. From time to time, we submit requests for expansion of our approved enterprise programs. These requests might not be approved. The termination or reduction of these programs and tax benefits could increase our taxes and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions relating to our business We received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the OCS, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. We are obligated to pay royalties with respect to the grants received. In addition, the terms of the OCS grants limit our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel if such products or technologies were developed using know-how developed with or based upon OCS grants. Pursuant to the Israeli Encouragement of Research and Development in the Industry Law, we and any non-Israeli who becomes a holder of five percent or more of our share capital are generally required to notify the OCS and such non Israeli shareholder is required to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. 14 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Most of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws in an Israeli court against us or any of these persons or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make undesirable an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Israeli Companies Law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers, requires special approvals for transactions involving shareholders holding five percent or more of the company’s capital, and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. ITEM 4. INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY A. HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPANY We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel on February 15, 1990. Our address is Z.H.R Industrial Zone, Rosh-Pina 12000, Israel. Our telephone number is 011-972-4-686-8000. In 1998 we established a wholly-owned subsidiary in the United States, OTI America, Inc., a Delaware corporation. OTI America, Inc. is located at 2 Executive Drive, Suite 740, Fort Lee, New Jersey 07024, and its telephone number is (201) 944-3233. Copies of this annual report and certain other documents referred to herein can be obtained on our website, www.otiglobal.com, or upon request from our Director of Corporate Communication, Ms. Galit Mendelson, at the following telephone number: (201) 944-5200 (#111). The information on our website is not incorporated into this annual report. On December 30, 1999, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of City Smart Ltd., a Hong-Kong based systems integrator, in exchange for 6,686 of our ordinary shares (which, as of that date, had an aggregate market value of approximately $451,300). On January 28, 2000, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of SoftChip Israel Ltd. and SoftChip Technologies (3000) Ltd., each an Israel-based developer and designer of microprocessors and operating systems for smart cards, in exchange for 12,119 of our ordinary shares (which, as of that date, had an aggregate market value of approximately $1.3 million). On February 2, 2000, we entered into an agreement with an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cheung Kong Infrastructure Ltd., a Hong Kong-based infrastructure company, to establish the e-Smart System joint venture in Hong Kong to, among other things, be the exclusive distributor for our products in Greater China. In connection therewith, we contributed $3.1 million to the joint venture. This joint venture acquired the assets of City Smart Ltd. in 2001. On June 15, 2000 and in January 2001, we acquired 51% and the remaining 49%, respectively, of the nominal share capital of two related German companies, Intercard Kartensysteme GmbH and InterCard Systemelectronic GmbH, the former of which is a systems integrator for smart card systems and the latter of which is a manufacturer of electronic devices, for an aggregate purchase price of $5.8 million. In June 2004, we sold our 50% stake in our e-Smart System joint venture to our partner. On October 1, 2004 we completed the acquisition of ASEC, a Polish company that develops, manufactures and markets card readers and reader modules, for a purchase price of approximately $1.6 million, which was paid through the issuance of 186,264 of our ordinary shares. In addition, the ASEC share purchase agreement provides for the payment of up to an additional $350,000 to Nextel in the event that specified performance criteria are met by ASEC for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005. In June 2005, we issued 14,298 of our ordinary shares in consideration for $175,000 to be paid to Nextel based on the said performance criteria. Based on ASEC’s 2005 results, the Company did not incur any further liability in connection with the earn-out formula. In October 2004, we sold our InterCard Kartensysteme subsidiary for approximately $2.5 million. In July 2005, we completed the acquisition of POI, a Hong Kong company that develops and manufactures machinery used to create smart cards inlays for smart cards and other products, as well as to manufactures contact and contactless smart cards themselves, and substantially the assets of POE relating to the design and manufacture of machinery for the manufacture of smart cards, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1 million, which was paid through the issuance of 82,229 of our ordinary shares. In July 2005, we also completed the acquisition of 71.5% of e-Pilot, a Hong Kong-based company that develops, manufactures and markets smart card inlays for smart cards and other products, for a purchase price of $661,000, which was paid through the issuance of 52,572 of our ordinary shares. During 2005, we also established an affiliated company together with an Asian government entity, in the form of joint venture, for the manufacture and sale of OTI-based travel document inlays for such government. The appropriate foreign government’s entities approved the establishment of the joint venture. In May 2006, we completed the acquisition of InSeal SAS, a French company that provides an operating system for contactless applications to a variety of customers in the payments market, for a total of 243,800 of our ordinary shares and 180,000 warrants. The warrants, which have a nominal exercise price, become exercisable in four equal annual installments. In December 2006, we completed the acquisition of the main assets of SuperCom Ltd., an Israeli smart card company, for consideration of 2,827,200 of our ordinary shares. The agreement provides for the purchase of SuperCom’s International Project Solution (“IPS”) business, whose activities accounted for substantially all of SuperCom’s revenue. 15 For additional information concerning these transactions, see “C. Organizational Structure” below, and Note 1B to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. B. BUSINESS OVERVIEW General We design, develop and sell contactless microprocessor-based smart card products. Because our cards contain a microprocessor, they can store and process information and run multiple applications. Our cards are referred to as “contactless” because they do not require physical contact with a card reader, as power and data are transferred to a card through a magnetic field generated by a card reader. Our products combine the benefits of both microprocessors and contactless cards. We believe that we are one of the first companies to deploy contactless microprocessor-based smart card products for commercial use. In addition to contactless microprocessor-based smart cards, we also sell products that are based on other card technologies. Since our incorporation in 1990, we have focused on the development of our core technologies and our OTI Platform-based products. We currently offer three lines of products, each of which constitutes a complete system, as well as components (such as smart cards and readers) that we sell to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, for incorporation into their own products. Our three complete system product lines include: — Payments Solutions: we offer a cashless system and loyalty program to replace cash, which includes the PayPass system that we are installing for MasterCard, our electronic EasyPark parking payment system and our mass transit electronic payment system; — Petroleum Systems: OTI's EasyFuel is a wireless, cashless, cardless, and paperless fuel management and petroleum solution which includes both our gasoline management system, or GMS, and our EasyFuel system; and — Smart ID Solutions: OTI’s solutions for credentialing, identifying and verifying individuals combine the capability to support biometric identification with the portability of smart cards. Substantially all of our contactless microprocessor-based products are based on a common platform which we refer to as the OTI Platform. The OTI Platform incorporates our patented technologies and consists of our smart cards, our smart card readers, software that enables the development of applications for the smart card and a communications technology that ensures that the transmission of data to and from the card is secure and reliable. The OTI Platform can be customized to support a large number of applications, such as credit and debit card functions, identification and loyalty programs. The OTI Platform has been deployed in different markets, such as petroleum, mass transit and e-passport/national ID, and is being developed for other markets, such as medical services. For some markets, we have developed extensively customized hardware and software systems based on our OTI Platform, such as the petroleum payment and management solution for fleet managers and an electronic parking payment system. 16 Our products offer the following benefits: — The information stored on a card and transferred between the card and the reader is secure. — Our products provide for a reliable transfer of information to and from a card. — Our cards are durable, easy to use and take a variety of forms, including credit card size solutions, key chains, tags, stickers and wristwatches. — Our products are easy to install and maintain. — Our products enable the transition from other card technologies to our contactless microprocessor-based technology. — Our products support multiple, independent applications on the same card. We intend to enhance our position in the design and development of contactless microprocessor-based smart card products by developing new applications for our technology. We also intend to enter new markets, either alone or through relationships with other parties, such as MasterCard International and BP (formerly known as British Petroleum), and we aim to generate additional revenues from transaction fees and ongoing payments for customer support. We market our products through our global network of subsidiaries and strategic relationships. Our sales and marketing efforts are directed from our U.S. subsidiary, OTI America, Inc., located in Fort Lee, New Jersey, and carried out through our subsidiaries in Israel, America, Europe, Africa and the Far-East. Industry Background What is a smart card? Plastic cards that contain a semiconductor chip are generally referred to as “smart cards.” Smart card technologies were first developed in response to the limitations of the magnetic strip commonly used in most credit and debit cards, telephone cards and hotel room access cards. Smart cards store larger amounts of information than magnetic strip cards. They can also update this information and store it more securely than a magnetic strip card. Depending on the complexity of the chip that a smart card contains, smart cards can process the stored information and support more than one application. For example, smart cards can act as a substitute for cash by storing a cash balance on the card that may later be reduced or increased. The same card can also store information identifying its holder. What is a smart card system? A smart card system is comprised of a smart card, a reader that transmits and receives data from the smart card, and a computer that processes data received from the reader. A reader housed in a protective casing is known as a terminal. Many terminals today are designed for “contact” smart cards. These terminals rely on physical contact between the card and the reader and contain a slot into which the smart cards are inserted or through which they are swiped. Most smart cards today are credit card-sized plastic cards. However, with the introduction of “contactless” smart cards that do not need any physical contact with a reader, and the form which smart cards and readers take can vary widely. 17 Types of smart card chips The type of semiconductor chip on a smart card determines the amount of information and the number and complexity of applications that can be provided by the card, or how “smart” the card is. In today’s market, there are three primary types of chips. From the least technologically advanced to the most technologically advanced, they are as follows: Memory chip. The most basic type of chip used in smart cards is the memory chip. Smart cards containing memory chips are more advanced than magnetic strip cards because they can store larger amounts of data. Like magnetic strip cards, however, memory chips are not capable of processing the stored information. An external reader extracts the data stored on a memory chip card which is then transferred to an external computer system where it is processed. Updated information is then transferred back to the reader and then to the card. The most common memory card application is a disposable prepaid telephone card. Application Specific Integrated Circuit, or ASIC, chip. An ASIC chip can store data and perform limited pre-determined data processing tasks. It cannot be reprogrammed once created. ASIC-based chips are primarily used for applications that require limited processing capabilities and lower levels of security, such as premises access control and mass transit. Microprocessor chip. Unlike ASIC chips, microprocessor chips can be reprogrammed after being manufactured. Microprocessor chips can also run more applications and perform more complex calculations than ASIC chips. The difference between an ASIC-based smart card and a microprocessor-based smart card can be analogized to the difference between a calculator and a personal computer. A calculator is typically programmed at the time of manufacture to perform only a limited number of functions, and like an ASIC-based smart card, these functions cannot subsequently be changed. A personal computer has an operating system that can run many different applications, and like a microprocessor-based smart card, these applications can be modified and added to a personal computer. Microprocessors can process information using a formula, or algorithm, with a great number of variables, whereas ASIC chips can only repeat a fixed algorithm with a limited number of variables. Therefore, data stored on a microprocessor chip can be encrypted using a random code that is difficult to break. As a result, data stored on a microprocessor chip benefits from a higher level of security than data stored on an ASIC chip. At the same time, microprocessors require more power than ASIC chips for their operations and are typically more expensive. Contact vs. Contactless Another primary distinction between types of smart cards is whether they are “contact” or “contactless,” that is, whether physical contact between the card and the reader is required in order to transfer data and power between them. When using a contact card, the cardholder swipes or inserts the card into a slot in the card reader. When inserted properly, a metallic pad, or contact plate, on the smart card aligns with the electronic contacts inside the reader, and data and power are transferred across this connection. By contrast, in contactless smart card systems, power and data are transmitted through antennas located on the smart card and the reader without making physical contact. The developers of contactless microprocessor-based smart cards face the following significant challenges: — Support of ISO standards. The International Standard Organization, or ISO, established standards regulating the transfer of data between a contactless smart card and its reader, under the name ISO 14443. Currently, two separate types of standards – Type A and Type B – have been approved by ISO. Because both standards are currently being used, only readers that can support both standards offer users the flexibility to use smart cards based on either standard. — Transfer of power to the card. Most providers of contactless smart card systems use a technology called resonant circuitry to create a magnetic field between the card and reader through which power is transferred to the card. Current limitations of resonant circuitry technology make this technology impractical for providing sufficient power to a microprocessor-based smart card in a contactless system. We have developed matched antenna technology that allows the efficient transfer of power. 18 — Support of existing card-based infrastructure. Because of the large existing installed base of contact-based systems, there is demand for technologies that can support both contact and contactless applications with the same equipment. However, combined contact and contactless cards have traditionally contained two chips, one for use by contact-based systems and one for use by contactless-based systems. The use of two chips increases the cost of the card and the likelihood of discrepancies between the information stored on each chip by different applications. The use of two chips also limits the level of security to the level offered by the ASIC chip. We believe that the shortcomings of these dual contact/contactless cards create a need for a single chip that can work with both contact and contactless systems. There have been attempts, principally by some of the larger chip manufacturers, to develop a technology that uses a single chip, but we are unaware of any successful commercial implementation of this technology by anyone other than us. Despite the challenges discussed above, contactless smart cards offer considerable advantages over traditional contact-based smart cards including: — Speed. Transaction time in contactless systems is shorter than in contact systems because it is not necessary to insert the card in, or swipe it through, a reader or otherwise position it in any specific direction. As a result, for systems that need to handle a large number of users over a short period of time, such as mass transit systems, contactless systems provide considerable time savings when aggregated over a large number of users while users save time on each of their transactions. — Convenience. Contactless systems simplify the way transactions are executed. For example, a shopper can pay for goods in a retail outlet simply by positioning a wallet containing a contactless smart card in close proximity to a reader positioned at the check-out, without the need to withdraw the card from the wallet. — Variety of forms. Because contactless smart cards do not need to fit into a slot in a reader, they can take a wider array of forms desired by smart card users and providers, such as key chains, tags, wristwatches and other forms. Maintenance costs of contactless smart card systems are lower than maintenance costs for contact systems since the components can be shielded in a protective casing, and the readers and the cards are not subject to friction caused by inserting the card into, or swiping it through, a reader. Moreover, contactless smart card readers do not contain moving parts such as the contact plates in contact-based systems that are subject to wear and tear. As a result, contactless systems can operate under harsher conditions and have longer lives than contact systems. However, because contactless smart card systems require additional components, such as antennas in the reader and on the card and other transmission components at the level of the reader, the up-front costs associated with a contactless system are higher than the costs associated with a contact-based system. The OTI Solution Our technology enables microprocessor-based smart card systems to operate in a contactless environment. This technology is not only available for new systems, but can be integrated with and upgrade existing contact systems and other contactless systems. Our products have the benefits discussed below. — Combining the advantages of contactless systems and microprocessor-based systems. Our technology successfully combines the features of microprocessor-based cards and contactless cards and provides the following benefits to card users and card issuers: 19 Features Advantages to card users Advantages to card issuers Benefits of contactless cards compared to contact cards Faster transaction time Shorter time to complete a transaction More transactions per minute Cards do not need to be inserted or put into readers Easier to use and come in a variety of forms Lower maintenance costs Durability The card lasts longer Reduce card replacement cost Benefits of microprocessors compared to ASIC or memory chips Multiple applications The card has multiple uses Generates revenues from additional applications Enhanced security Information on the card is more secure System is less vulnerable to fraud — Ease of transition from other card systems to contactless microprocessor-based systems. We provide our customers with an easy upgrade of their existing systems by allowing card issuers who currently utilize magnetic strip card systems or other contact-based systems to switch to a contactless system without forcing them to replace their existing infrastructure. For example, as part of a project for MasterCard PayPass, we upgraded regular standard point-of-sales and that supported only magnetic stripe to support contactless microprocessor-based smart cards. We integrated our inlay solution with plastic card manufacturers to allow quick upgrade from regular credit cards to contactless operations. — Ease of transition from contact-based microprocessors to contactless microprocessors. Chip manufacturers and operating system providers can use our technology to upgrade their offthe- shelf products to support both contact and contactless operations. They can combine our technology with their microprocessor, enabling the microprocessor to support contact and contactless operations. By applying our patented hardware, customers can save months of development time and reduce the time to market for their products. — Support of multiple standards. Our readers are capable of supporting ISO 14443 Type A and Type B standards. Because both of these standards are currently being used, we offer users the flexibility to adopt either standard. Strategy Our goal is to be the leading provider of contactless microprocessor-based smart card products. Key elements of our strategy for achieving this goal include: — Enhance our technological position. We intend to continue to invest in research and development in order to enhance our technological position, develop new technologies, extend the functionality of our products and services, and offer innovative products to our customers. — Expand our global market presence. Our sales and marketing effort is currently directed from our U.S. subsidiary, OTI America, located in Fort Lee, New Jersey. We market our products through a global network of marketing subsidiaries in Israel, America, Europe, Africa and the Far-East. We intend to use these entities to strengthen our presence in existing markets, penetrate new markets, provide local customer service and technical support, and adapt our products to our local customers’ specific needs. — Increase our focus on generating high-margin, recurring revenues. We currently derive most of our revenues from one-time payments for our products and technologies. We intend to generate additional recurring revenues by receiving service fees for ongoing customer services and technical support and transaction fees from our customers based on the volume of transactions effected in systems that contain our products. For example, we have entered into such fee arrangements with respect to our parking systems in Israel and our gasoline management systems in South Africa. By reducing customers’ up-front payments for our products in return for receiving on-going participation in the revenue they generate for the customer, we intend to build and maintain long-term relationships with our customers and generate a constant stream of high-margin, recurring revenues and, at the same time, provide cost-effective turnkey solutions to our customers. 20 — Leverage existing relationships and seek new relationships. We have entered into a relationship with BP (formerly known as British Petroleum) to cover the South African petroleum market. Recently, the relationship was extended and expanded so that OTI granted BP a worldwide license for its petroleum payment solution. We have entered into this and other relationships in order to facilitate or accelerate our penetration into new markets, as well as assist us in defining and pursuing new applications for our products. We are continuously seeking additional relationships to complement our marketing strategy and promote our brand worldwide. — Leverage presence in existing industries to enter into new industries. We offer our customers the ability to add new applications to their smart cards, thereby expanding the number of industries in which our products are used. For example, users of the gasoline management system that we have sold to BP in South Africa will have the option to add a payment application to their card. The application will allow them to pay with the card at convenience stores that install the system and to earn loyalty points every time they do so. We plan to generate additional revenues through the sale of products required to add and operate these applications. — Pursue strategic acquisitions. We plan to pursue acquisitions of companies that enhance our manufacturing, sales, marketing and research and development capabilities. In this way, we plan to expand our product offerings and provide more comprehensive service to our customers. Since our initial public offering in 1999, we have acquired the SoftChip Group, an Israeli based developer and designer of microprocessors and operating systems for smart cards, InterCard Systemelectronic, a German company that provides OEM and electronics manufacturing services, ASEC, a Polish company that develops, manufactures and markets card readers and reader modules based on radio frequency identification technologies, 71.5% of e-Pilot, a Hong Kong-based company that develops, manufactures and markets smart card inlays for smart cards and other products, POI, an engineering company that develops and manufactures machinery used to create smart cards inlays for smart cards and other products, and that also manufactures contact and contactless smart cards themselves, (at September 1, 2006, the Company completed a structural change in the Far-East, under which the operations of e-Pilot and of POI were transferred to Millennium Card’s Technology Limited (“MCT”), a subsidiary which was established during 2006, Following the structural change, the Company has sold POI and e-Pilot to a third party), and InSeal, a French company providing an operating system for contactless applications for a variety of customers in the payments market. Core technologies Since our inception in 1990, we have developed technologies that facilitate the transmission of data and power between a contactless microprocessor-based smart card and a reader. Our products are based on a number of core technologies, which are discussed below. Power and data transmission technology We refer to our power and data transmission technology as “matched antenna” technology. The power, as well as the data, is transmitted to the microprocessor installed on the smart card through an electro-magnetic field generated by the reader. Our technology offers a number of key advantages: — Contactless smart cards can be based on microprocessors. In contrast to resonant circuitry technology, which is the predominant technology used for ASIC-based contactless smart cards, our matched antenna technology enables a reader to power a standard microprocessor embedded in the contactless card. — Replacing one of the components of the smart card system does not require re-tuning the system. In smart card systems based on resonant circuitry, once a component of the system is replaced the whole system needs to be re-tuned in order to function properly. This increases maintenance time and costs. Our technology allows components of the system to be replaced without any need for re-tuning, providing for easy, cost effective installation and maintenance of our products. — The reader does not need to be installed in close proximity to its antenna. The reader can be installed at a distance of up to 33 meters, or 100 feet, from the antenna, providing the ability to install smart card systems in harsh conditions, including potentially explosive environments such as gasoline stations. In addition, the customer can install the reader where there is easy access, facilitating installation and maintenance of the reader. 21 Antenna interface Our antenna interface technology enables a single microprocessor to connect, or interface, with both contact and contactless readers. We refer to this as a “dual interface” feature. This enables customers with existing contact systems to gradually transition to contactless cards, rather than incurring up-front all the costs of replacing the contact system with a contactless system. We have developed the following two methods of implementing our dual interface feature: — Adding our antenna interface chip. The chip can be added to standard microprocessor-based contact cards, allowing the card to operate as a contactless smart card, in addition to being a contact card. This can be implemented within a relatively short period of up to three months, which reduces our customers’ time to market. — Integrating an antenna interface into the microprocessor. The antenna interface can be integrated into a microprocessor, which reduces the cost of manufacturing dual interface cards once manufacturing levels reach significant volumes of chips. At that point, the additional upfront cost of engineering work required in order to successfully integrate the two components – the microprocessor and the antenna interface – into one chip, is offset by the fact that only a single component is required. This is referred to as a monochip. In 1998, our antenna interface, which enables any contact-based microprocessor with any operating system to work in a contactless environment, was awarded the annual prize of the European Smart Card Applications and Technology organization for the most innovative achievement for smart cards in 1997. Antenna module Contactless smart cards require an antenna as a conduit for ingoing and outgoing transmissions of power and data. Traditional contactless smart cards contain an antenna coil that is embedded around the edge of the card. The technology for embedding the antenna coil into the card is complex, creating a barrier for contact smart card manufacturers to transition to manufacturing contactless smart cards. Our technology eliminates the need to embed the antenna coil around the edge of the smart card by mounting the antenna on a standard size platform, or module, into which the microprocessor is embedded. Our technology allows contactless cards to be produced using existing contact card production processes without the need for new machinery. This significantly reduces manufacturing costs. In addition, when a manufacturing infrastructure exists in the local market, shipping costs to the local market and possibly duties can be reduced. In 2000, our antenna module was awarded the annual prize of the European Smart Card Applications and Technology organization for the most innovative achievement for smart cards in 1999. 22 Communications technology We have developed a unique communications technology that includes: — a set of rules, or a protocol, that is designed to ensure that information is properly transmitted from the reader to the card, and vice versa; — an additional layer of coding that makes the transmission of information more difficult to intercept and read; and — a technique that reduces the effect of background interference on the quality of the transmission. Microprocessor chip and operating system design know-how Through our acquisition of the SoftChip Group, we are skilled in the design of microprocessors and development of operating systems for smart cards. SoftChip acquired its know-how through its involvement in the design of microprocessors for smart cards on behalf of leading microprocessor manufacturers. Products The OTI Platform Substantially all of our products are based on a common platform, which we refer to as the OTI Platform. The OTI Platform incorporates our patented technologies and consists of: — smart cards, which can take a variety of forms including tags, stickers, wristwatches, key chains and plastic credit card-sized cards; — smart card readers; — software that enables the development of applications on contactless microprocessor-based smart cards; and — a method of communications that regulates the transmission of data between a contactless smart card and a reader. The following is a graphical representation of a contactless microprocessor-based smart card based on the OTI Platform: Because our microprocessors are programmable, they can support multiple applications on the same card. This technology can eliminate, consumers’ reluctance to carry multiple cards. All of these elements work together to provide a foundation upon which we or our customers build applications. The transmission of information between the card and the reader in an OTI Platform-based product is secure and reliable. For example, if communications are interrupted in the course of a transmission, the OTI Platform will reject the impaired transmission and require that the information be re-transmitted. In addition, our OTI Platform ensures that information is transmitted from the card in an encrypted form only to readers that are authorized to receive and able to decipher the transmission. 23 The OTI Platform supports several types of payment methods including debit and credit applications, loyalty points and an electronic cash substitute that increases or reduces the balance on the user’s card. We refer to these as e-purse applications. Our Products Our products consist of: Payments Solutions. We typically design our payment solutions while teaming up with financial institutions and back office providers. These solutions offer a cashless system and loyalty program for small purchases, such as fast food, gasoline and movie tickets. Our payment solutions include the following: — PayPass™. OTI is supplying key components of the technology for multiple contactless payment programs, driven by major financial institutions: MasterCard International’s PayPass™ program, Visa contactless program and ExpressPay™ from American Express. — E-purse (Stored Value Cards). We have developed and have began to market a product that enables a person to load pre-paid value on a card, which provides float for issuers, while enabling cardholders to pay for small purchases in environments such as phone booths, vending machines and fast food restaurants, without the need for exact change. — Parking payment system. Our electronic parking payment system, which we refer to as EasyPark, enables drivers to be charged for the exact period of time they are parked and simplifies the monitoring and collection of parking fees. Drivers are issued contactless microprocessor-based smart cards, or EasyPark cards, to replace existing parking payment methods, including parking meters. The EasyPark card stores the amount of money that is available for payment of parking fees. A driver can increase the balance at special self-service kiosks placed at convenient locations. Compliance with parking regulations is monitored by inspectors using specially designed hand-held terminals. In May 1999, the EasyPark system was selected as the national parking system for Israel. During 2000, the system was widely implemented throughout Israel. In 2005, The Union of Local Authorities in Israel extended EasyPark’s contract for an additional five year term. The program currently has more than 250,000 subscribers, and is currently in use in 26 cities across the country. We are currently marketing the EasyPark system through our global network of subsidiaries. — Mass transit. We have designed a product that enables efficient fare collection from a large volume of passengers in various types of mass transportation systems, such as buses and trains. The smart card serves as the passenger’s ticket. The chip in the smart card stores the passenger’s fare balance and is debited with the fare when the passenger boards or disembarks. The balance on the smart card can be increased repeatedly. OTI is marketing this product to system integrators that specialize in mass transit solutions. For example, we have announced that we are working with Scheidt & Bachmann. Petroleum Systems. Our petroleum systems include EasyFuel and GMS (gasoline management system): — EasyFuel. Our wireless petroleum solution is named EasyFuel. EasyFuel incorporates options for retail and private fleets as well as a pay-at-the-pump solution. The system monitors and expedites the fueling and payment process through a wireless detection and authorization system. This system is also ideally positioned for the retail petroleum market by enabling drivers to pay for gasoline at the pump, pay for other services and products at the gas station and earn loyalty points for these purchases. — GMS. GMS records and monitors the identity of the driver and the vehicle, the driver’s or fleet’s credit status, the vehicle’s fuel consumption and other information determined by the customer, such as periodic vehicle maintenance. By processing and managing this information, GMS allows oil companies and fleet managers to receive billing information automatically, simplify payment processes, track the use of each vehicle and reduce the risk of theft or fraud. GMS also enhances the loyalty of fleet drivers and managers to oil companies operating participating gas stations. 24 The information is communicated via an antenna in the vehicle’s gas tank to an antenna mounted on the fuel nozzle when the fuel nozzle is inserted into the vehicle’s gas tank, and is then transferred to the gas station computer. Disengaging the nozzle from the gas tank will immediately turn off the pump. The following diagram illustrates a typical wireless GMS system: We commenced sales of GMS in 1995. GMS is being used by a number of petroleum companies, such as BP South Africa, Turcas in Turkey and Mobil in Ecuador. As of December 31, 2006, a total of approximately 900 gas stations have been equipped with GMS, and we have delivered GMS equipment for approximately 105,000 vehicles. Smart ID Solutions. Our smart identification products combine the portability of smart cards with the capability to support advanced identification and authentication technology and manage significant amounts of information. Our smart identification products include the following: — e-passport/National ID. We have developed a product that supports advanced authentication methods developed by other companies. Authentication methods are required by governments for identification documentation. Biometric identification involves inputting data regarding the physical characteristics of the smart card holder, such as his fingerprints or facial impression, into the smart card. This data is stored in the smart card and compared with the actual characteristics of the smart card holder when the card is presented for identity validation. This enables governments to transition from paper-based national documentation systems to a more cost-effective paperless identification system, encompassing multiple forms of government identification such as passports, national identification cards, driver’s licenses and national health cards. In addition, we have incorporated our antenna module into a sticker. The sticker can be attached to existing paper documentation, thus converting it into a contactless smart card. The Israeli government selected our technology and products for use in a system controlling passage between Israel and areas governed by the Palestinian Authority which will be supplied by Electronic Data Systems. In 2005, we announced that we established, together with the government of a major Asian country, a joint venture for the manufacture and sale of OTI-based travel document inlays for such country. 25 — MediSmart. Our MediSmart product is designed to secure process and manage medical information by providing doctors and hospital administrators with information regarding the patient’s identity, medical history, insurance coverage and payment history. This information can be automatically updated after each treatment. Treatment information can be automatically transferred to the insurance provider’s computer system. This product reduces costs to medical providers, provides increased security for a patient’s medical history and improves the quality and speed of service to patients. We began field tests of the product in South Africa in 2003, and the product was successfully deployed in June 2004 by CareCross Health, the leading primary healthcare provider in South Africa. Technology licensing In 2003, we entered into an agreement with Atmel Corporation for the purpose of collaborating on the development of Mastercard’s PayPass™ contactless payment program. Atmel was selected by MasterCard to supply the secure contactless microcontroller. Under the agreement, Atmel has partnered with us to provide contactless solution expertise for PayPass™, including the operating system, application support and inlay technology. In 2005, we partnered with STMicroelectronics to supply Visa International with a contactless payment solution. Under the agreement, STMicroelectronics provides the contactless microcontroller and OTI provides the operating system and application, and the contactless card technology including the inlay technology. Customer service and technical support We provide our customers with training and installation support and ongoing customer service and technical support through our global network of subsidiaries. We have a support team of 21 employees consisting of ten employees located in our corporate headquarters in Rosh Pina, Israel, four employees in Africa, three employees in the United States and four employees in Europe. Our customer service team in Rosh Pina, Israel provides central services to our network of local subsidiaries. The subsidiaries, in turn, provide 24-hour customer support to our customers, through telephone and email for an ongoing fee. On-site technical support is provided to customers for a fee. Sales and marketing We have built a global network of subsidiaries through which we sell and market our products. As of December 31, 2006, we had a total sales and marketing staff of 39 employees in five locations. We market our products in the Americas through OTI America, which employs six people in sales and marketing. In Africa we sell and market through OTI Africa, which employs eight people in sales and marketing. In Europe, we sell and market through InterCard Systemelectronic and ASEC, which together employ eight people in sales and marketing. In Israel, we sell and market through our headquarters in Rosh Pina, which employs nine people in sales and marketing. In the Far East, we sell and market through MCT, which employs eight people in sales and marketing. Our sales and marketing staff implements marketing programs to promote our products and services and enhance our global brand recognition. Our current marketing efforts include participation in trade shows and conferences, press releases, our web site, and conducting speaking engagements and advertising in industry publications. We also conduct technical seminars to inform customers, distributors and other industry participants of the benefits of our products and technologies. Some of the independent systems integrators to which we sell our products also act as distributors for our products. We have granted some of our systems integrators exclusive distribution rights within a particular country or region. We generally guarantee exclusivity only if certain sales targets are met. Seasonality Our revenues are subject to seasonal fluctuations related to the slowdown in spending activities and the increased activity related to the year-end purchasing cycles of many end-users of our products. Hence, our sales and profits in the fourth quarter of every year tend to be higher than in other quarters, particularly the first and second quarters of each year. We anticipate that we will continue to experience quarter-to-quarter seasonal fluctuations. Manufacturing External manufacturers and suppliers We currently purchase substantially all of the hardware and software components of our products from third-party suppliers and outsource substantially all of the manufacturing and assembling of our products to manufacturing subcontractors. This allows us to focus our resources on the design, development and marketing of our products. We have not entered into long-term supply contracts. Instead, we purchase components on a purchase order basis. Our policy is to use more than one supplier and manufacturing subcontractor for each part of our production process in order to limit dependence on any one supplier or manufacturer. 26 Smart cards — Microprocessors. The current suppliers of microprocessors for our smart cards are STMicroelectronics and Atmel. In addition, we have jointly developed with Samsung a “monochip” that integrates our antenna interface with Samsung’s microprocessor. — Modules. A module is a silicon plate into which the components of a microprocessor are embedded. The microprocessor module and the antenna module on which the microprocessor and antenna interface are mounted are manufactured in Europe and Southeast Asia. — Packaging. We package the components for our smart cards in a variety of forms, including key chains, tags, stickers and cards. The key chains, tags and stickers containing our microprocessor and antenna modules are manufactured in China and in Europe. Our credit card-sized smart cards are manufactured in Korea, China, Thailand and the United States. — Readers. We purchase off-the-shelf components for our readers from various suppliers including Infineon, Motorola, AMD and National Semiconductor. The readers are assembled for us in Germany, mainly by our wholly-owned subsidiary InterCard Systemelectronic. Operating systems We have developed our Hercules Operating System, a scaleable multi-application operating system. The design of OTI’s Hercules Operating System enables us to fulfill high demands with regard to functionality, security, flexibility, maintenance and performance. Quality control We maintain strict internal and external quality control processes. We require that the facilities of our suppliers and manufacturing subcontractors be ISO 9001:2000 certified. ISO 9001:2000 refers to a quality assurance model established by ISO for companies that design, produce, install, inspect and test products. Internal manufacturing capabilities We currently package, test and encode our readers at our production facility in Rosh Pina, Israel. Our packaging and testing facilities are ISO 9001:2000 certified. In Rosh Pina, we also incorporate modules into credit card-sized contactless smart cards. InterCard Systemelectronic, our wholly-owned German subsidiary, owns a manufacturing facility in Germany for electronic devices primarily for the transportation industry and card terminals. We also manufacture card readers at the facilities of InterCard Systemelectronic. We have granted our former joint venture, e-Smart, an option to manufacture smart cards using our technology for sale in Greater China. We will retain exclusive rights to our technology and any smart cards manufactured by e-Smart will be required to contain modules manufactured by us. We are entitled to receive royalties for smart cards manufactured by e-Smart. Government regulation Some of our products are subject to government regulation in the countries in which they are used. For example, card readers that are used in the United States require certification of compliance with regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and those used in Europe require certification of compliance with regulations of the European Telecommunications Standards Institute regarding emission limits of radio frequency devices. In the United States, our GMS and retail petroleum products are subject to compliance with regulations of Underwriters Laboratories Inc., a public safety and testing certification organization, and in Europe to regulations of the European Union. Our products are currently in compliance with these regulations. 27 Research and development We believe that our future success depends on our ability to maintain our technological leadership, enhance our existing products and develop new products and technologies. Accordingly, we intend to continue devoting substantial resources to research and development. We are paying royalties to the Government of Israel at a rate of 3%-5% of sales of the products that the Government of Israel participated in financing through grants, up to the amounts granted, linked to the U.S. dollar with annual interest at LIBOR as of the date of the approval. The following table describes our research and development activities during each of the past five years: 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 (Dollars in millions) Our expenditures net of grants from the OCS $ 3.4 $ 2.3 $ 3.2 $ 4.8 $ 7.1 Our net expenditures as a percentage of annual revenues 19 % 12 % 14 % 13 % 17 % OCS grants $ 1.1 $ 0.9 $ 0.4 $ 0.6 $ 0 Our research and development activities focus on three areas: — implementing our core technologies in microprocessors and readers; — enhancing the functionality of our components and expanding the range of our products to serve new markets; and — developing new innovative technologies related to the operation of contactless microprocessor- based smart cards. At December 31, 2006, we employed 103 employees in our research and development department. Our main research and development facilities are located at our headquarters in Rosh Pina, Israel. We believe that our success is based on our experienced team of senior engineers and technicians who have on average 13 years of experience in their respective fields. Our research and development facilities are ISO 9001:2000 certified. Proprietary technologies Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret law, as well as know-how, confidentiality agreements and other contractual relationships with our employees, affiliates, distributors and others. We have a number of issued patents in various jurisdictions with respect to our technologies, as well as a number of pending patent applications. The more significant of these are as follows: Patents Technology Status System and Method For The Non-Contact Transmission of Data. Patents granted in the United States, Israel, Canada, Singapore, Australia, South Africa and Hong Kong. The U.S. patent expires in 2010 and the other patents expire in 2011. Contact/Contactless Data Transaction Card. Patents granted in the United States, Israel, Australia, Hong Kong, The Netherlands, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom. The Israeli patent expires in 2016 and the other patents expire in 2017. Smart card amenable to assembly using two manufacturing stages and a method of manufacture thereof. Patents granted in the United States and Israel. The Israeli patent expires in 2017 and the U.S. patent expires in 2018. Contact/Contactless Smart Card having Customizable Antenna Interface Patents granted in the United States, Hong Kong, Israel, Belgium, Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands, United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. These patents expire in 2018. 28 Technology Status Data transaction system for process monitoring and event tracking Patents granted in the United States, Hong Kong, Israel, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. The Israeli and the U.S. patents expire in 2018 and the other patents expire in 2019. Contactless data transaction tag having a coil antenna mounted in association with a band Patent granted in Israel. The patent expires in 2018. Self-closing cap for the filling neck of a container Patents granted in the United States, Hong Kong, Israel, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, United Kingdom and Australia. The Israeli patent expires in 2018 and the other patents expire in 2019. System that uses contactless smart card for parking systems Patent granted to Easy Park in Israel, Europe, South Africa, the United States, Hong Kong, France, Germany, United Kingdom, Greece, Italy, The Netherlands and Spain. Except Israel which patent expires on July 2011, the other expire on July 2012. Tamper - Free and Frogery -Proof Passport and Methods for providing same Patent granted to Supercom Ltd. in the U.S. The patent expires in 2024. Smart Identification Document Patent application was filed in Canada, the European Patent Office, Australia, Singapore, New Zealand, India, Israel, South Africa, ARIPO, EURASIA and the United States. Apparatus and process for producing Document Core Inlays for smart cards travel documents. PCT application for the national phase was filed during January 2006. Multi-function contactless data transaction transponder. PCT application filed on October 2006. Method and apparatus for bulk testing of smart card devices. PCT Application filed on January 2007. Fob having a clip and method of manufacture thereof. Patent application was filed in Israel and in South Africa as well as a PCT Application on December 2006. Interface Card And Apparatus And Process For The Formation Thereof. Filed for a short term patent in Hong Kong on April, 2007. Designs Design for unique Key Chain Design issued in the United States on June 2007. Smart Card Reader Pending in Israel, filed in the U.S., Hong Kong, China, India, Singapore and Taiwan. Trademarks MEDISMART Trademark granted in the United States on May 2006 and pending at the Community Trademark. MEDISMART & DEVICE Trademark granted in the United States on May 2006 and is pending at the European Community. OTI Trademarks granted in the United States, Israel and European Community. 29 OTI INSIGHT Trademarks granted in the United States, Israel and European Community. OTI INSIGHT & DEVICE Trademarks granted in the United States, Israel and European Community. EASY PARK Trademarks granted in the United States, Israel and Singapore. SCIENCE - NON FICTION Trademarks granted in the United States, Israel and European Community. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued with respect to any of our pending or future patent applications. In addition, we do not know whether any issued patents will be enforceable against alleged infringers or will be upheld if their validity is challenged. Competition Contactless microprocessor-based products and technologies. We anticipate competition in sales of our products, systems and technologies from other providers of contactless microprocessor-based smart card technologies. We expect competition to intensify as our competitors commit greater resources to the development of contactless microprocessor-based smart cards. Some of the larger chip manufacturers that operate in the smart card market, including Atmel, STM, Infineon and Philips Semiconductors, have announced that they are developing contactless microprocessor-based smart cards. Contactless ASIC-based products and technologies. We compete with contactless ASIC-based technologies developed primarily by Philips Semiconductors, which comply with ISO 14443 and which are used by some of the largest manufacturers of smart cards, including Gemplus, Axalto and Giesecke & Devrient, and Sony’s contactless ASIC-based technology, that is not ISO compliant. Other companies offer contactless ASIC-based systems for specific applications. In addition, Orpak Industries, Ltd. and Roisman Engineering Ltd., both based in Israel, also offer gasoline management systems, which use simple ASIC-based devices powered by batteries and that are not ISO-compliant. Other contact-based technologies. We compete with contact-based products such as microprocessor-based contact cards, ASIC-based contact cards, memory chip cards and magnetic strip cards. We believe that these cards offer inferior functionality compared to contactless microprocessor-based smart cards. Nevertheless, some of our potential customers have in the past, and may in the future, consider these alternatives sufficient for their needs. 30 C. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE ITEM 1. The chart below describes the corporate structure of our principal subsidiaries and major affiliates. On Track Innovations Ltd. Israel Easy Park Ltd. Israel Soft Chip Technologies (3000) Ltd. Israel OTI America, Inc. Delaware OTI Africa, Inc. South Africa ASEC Spolka Akcyjna Poland Easy Park Israel Ltd. Israel Millennium Cards Technology Limited Hong Kong, China Millennium Cards Technology Limited Shenzhen, China 100% (2) 60% (6) InterCard GMBH Systemelectronic Germany 49%(5) 100% 100% 100%(7) 100% 100%(3) 100% Joint Venture 92.5% (1) 100%(4) InSeal SAS France (1) The remaining shares of Easy Park Ltd. are held by two investors. (2) Including 10% of the shares of Easy Park Israel Ltd. that we hold directly. (3) We acquired a 51% interest in our existing InterCard Systemelectronic and our former InterCard Kartensysteme subsidiaries in June 2000. We acquired the remaining 49% interest in these subsidiaries in January 2001. We sold InterCard Kartensysteme in October 2004. (4) We acquired ASEC in October 2004. (5) We have established the joint venture during 2005 (6) We have established Millennium Cards Technology Limited during 2006. (7) We acquired InSeal SAS in May 2006. Easy Park Ltd Easy Park Ltd. developed our EasyPark system. Easy Park is incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Each holder or holders, individually or in the aggregate, of 10.5% of Easy Park’s issued share capital may appoint one member to Easy Park’s board of directors. By reason of our ownership of 92.5% of Easy Park’s outstanding shares, we currently have the right to appoint all of the members of its board of directors. Our Easy Park system was selected as the national parking system for Israel. The SoftChip Group On January 28, 2000, we acquired from Michael and Yael Cohen all of the shares of SoftChip Israel Ltd. and SoftChip Technologies (3000) Ltd., which we refer to collectively as the SoftChip group, in exchange for 12,119 of our ordinary shares. The closing price of our ordinary shares on this date was EUR103.30 per share (equivalent to $100.90 per share). It was agreed that Michael Cohen would continue as chief executive officer of SoftChip Technologies (3000) Ltd. pursuant to an employment agreement with a six year term. Michael Cohen’s employment agreement was terminated on March 31, 2003 and instead we have hired Michael Cohen to provide services as a consultant. We also granted Michael Cohen options to purchase 10,000 of our ordinary shares at an exercise price of $30.00 per share. 31 The SoftChip group designs microprocessors and operating systems for smart cards. Under the share purchase agreement, Michael and Yael Cohen agreed not to develop, promote or sell competing or similar products to our products or the SoftChip group’s products for a period of two years after the termination of his employment with Softchip, without our or the SoftChip companies’ prior approval. OTI America, Inc. OTI America, Inc., our U.S. subsidiary, is headquartered in Fort Lee and incorporated in Delaware, and provides marketing and customer support services for our products in North and South America. In addition, our global marketing and strategy development is headed from OTI America. OTI Africa Ltd. OTI Africa Ltd. is headquartered and incorporated in South Africa and provides marketing, distribution and customer support services for our products in Africa. The InterCard group On June 15, 2000 and in January 2001, we acquired 51% and the remaining 49%, respectively, of the nominal share capital of two related German companies, one of which, InterCard Kartensysteme GmbH, is a systems integrator for smart card systems and the other of which, InterCard Systemelectronic GmbH, is a manufacturer of electronic devices, for an aggregate purchase price of $5.8 million. InterCard Kartensysteme primarily supplied smart card systems for over 80 university campuses in Germany. InterCard Kartensysteme also sold copy machine payment systems to universities, libraries and corporations. In October 2004, we sold our InterCard Kartensysteme subsidiary. The purchase price for our shares in InterCard Kartensysteme is $2.5 million, to be paid in two installments. The first installment in the amount of $1.25 million, which was paid in January 2005, consisted of $685,000 in cash, a euro 325,000 interest-free promissory note ($432,000), payable in 32 monthly installments of euro 10,000 and a final installment of euro 5,000, beginning on February 1, 2005, and a euro 100,000 promissory note ($133,000), payable in 12 monthly installments of euro 9,000, beginning on February 1, 2005. The second installment in the amount of $1.25 million shall be paid in 25 quarterly payments beginning on April 1, 2005. In October 2005, we entered into a settlement agreement according to which the outstanding balances of the two loans were reduced by euro 165,000 and combined to one loan which is payable in 24 monthly installments of euro 10,000 each and a final installment of euro 5,000. The gain from the sale, in the amount of $374,000, was recognized in the consolidated financial statements in 2005. ASEC Spolka Akcyjna On October 22, 2004, we completed the acquisition of ASEC, which is headquartered in Krakow, Poland, from Nextel Spolka Akcyjna, or Nextel. ASEC develops, manufactures and markets card readers and reader modules based on radio frequency identification technologies, including high-end programmable smart card as well as economically priced readers. Pursuant to the Preliminary Share Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 14, 2004, as amended in October 2004, between us and Nextel, or the Agreement, the aggregate purchase price for the acquisition was $1.6 million, which was paid to Nextel through the issuance of 186,264 of our ordinary shares, calculated by dividing the purchase price by the average price of our ordinary shares during the ten trading days prior to, but excluding, the closing date of the acquisition ($8.59 per share). In addition, the Agreement provides for additional consideration of up to $350,000 to be paid to Nextel in the form of our ordinary shares, subject to ASEC meeting specified performance criteria for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, referred to as the earn-out formula. ASEC met the performance criteria for the year ended December 31, 2004. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2004 we recognized a liability of $175,000 in connection with the earn-out formula, which was settled by 14,298 ordinary shares that were issued by us to Nextel in June 2005. Based on ASEC’s 2005 performance, we did not incur any further liability in connection with the earn-out formula. The results of operations of ASEC have been included in the consolidated financial statements as from October 1, 2004. 32 Far East Pioneer Oriental International Ltd. In July 2005, we completed the acquisition of POI, a Hong Kong company, a subsidiary of POE, a Hong Kong company. POI is an engineering company that develops and manufactures machinery used to create smart card inlays for smart cards and other products, and also manufactures contact and contactless smart cards themselves. Pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement dated June 16, 2005, between us, POE, and its shareholders (together, referred to as the Sellers), as amended, the aggregate purchase price for the acquisition was paid to the Sellers through the issuance of an aggregate 40,441 of our ordinary shares. In July 2005, POI completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of POE relating to the design and manufacture of machinery for the manufacture of smart cards, including certain proprietary technologies related to the manufacturing process. Pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement dated June 16, 2005 between POI and POE, POI also agreed to make offers of employment to each of the employees of POE. The aggregate purchase price for the acquisition was paid to POE through the issuance of an aggregate of 41,788 of our ordinary shares. On September 1, 2006, we completed a structural change in the Far-East, under which the operations of POI was transferred to Millennium Card’s Technology Limited. Following the structural change, the Company has sold its shares in POI. e-Pilot Ltd. In July 2005, we completed the acquisition of a 71.5% interest in e-Pilot Ltd, a British Virgin Islands company, from three of e-Pilot’s shareholders (collectively, referred to as the e-Pilot Shareholders). e-Pilot, which is headquartered in Hong Kong, develops, manufactures and markets smart card inlays for smart cards and other products. Pursuant to share purchase agreements entered into with each of the e-Pilot Shareholders, the aggregate purchase price for the acquisition was paid to the e-Pilot Shareholders through the issuance of an aggregate of 52,572 of our ordinary shares. . On September 1, 2006, we completed a structural change in the Far-East, under which the operations of e-Pilot was transferred to Millennium Card’s Technology Limited. Following the structural change, the Company has sold its shares in e-Pilot. Millennium Card’s Technology Limited On September 1, 2006, we completed a structural change in the Far-East, under which the operations of POI and of e-Pilot were transferred to Millennium Card’s Technology Limited (“MCT”), a subsidiary which was established during 2006. Following the structural change, the Company has sold its shares in POI and e-Pilot for a total consideration of $200,000 and recorded a $122,000 gain from sale of subsidiaries InSeal SAS In May 2006, we completed the acquisition of all the share capital of InSeal SAS, for an aggregate of 243,800 of our ordinary shares and 180,000 warrants. The warrants, which have a nominal exercise price, become exercisable in four equal annual installments. InSeal SAS is a Marseille, France based company currently providing an operating system for contactless applications to a variety of customers in the payments market. InSeal’s JayCOS® is currently in use in contactless payments programs in the US. D. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT We lease an aggregate of 10,639 square meters of land in Rosh Pina, Israel from the Israel Lands Authority. Of the 10,639 square meters, 2,377 meters are leased under a 49 year lease which expires on November 16, 2041, with an option to extend for a further period of 49 years. Our principal management, administration and marketing activities occupy a 1,188 square meter facility on the site. The remaining 8,262 square meters of land are leased under a 49 year lease with the Israel Lands Authority which expires on September 14, 2047, with an option to extend for a further period of 49 years. Our principal engineering, research and development and part of our manufacturing activities occupy a 4,000 square meter facility on this site. The rent for the initial 49-year term of each of these leases was prepaid in its entirety at the beginning of the lease terms as is customary in Israel for leases of property for industrial purposes from the Israel Lands Authority. Our rights under these leases, including the facilities built on the site, are pledged for the benefit of Bank Hapoalim. 33 Our majority owned subsidiary, Easy Park Ltd., leases office space in this complex from us. Easy Park also leases an aggregate of 137 meters in Tel Aviv pursuant to a lease that expires on April 14, 2008, with an option to extend for a further period of 6 years. OTI America, Inc. leases an aggregate of 4,375 square feet of office space in Fort Lee, New Jersey pursuant to a lease that expires on August 31, 2009. OTI Africa Ltd. leases an aggregate of 2,500 square meters of office space in Cape Town, South Africa, pursuant to a lease that expires on December 31, 2008. ASEC leases an aggregate of 495 square meters of office space in Krakow, Poland pursuant to a lease that expires on July 31, 2007, with an option to extend the lease for additional two years, and 169 square meters of office space in Warsaw , Poland, pursuant to a lease that expires on March 15, 2008. InterCard Systemelectronic owns an aggregate of 5,201 square meters of land in Bad Durrheim, Germany. The area is being used commercially for its manufacturing facility. MCT leases office space in Futian, Shenzhen with areas of 4,779 square meters and 2,732 square meters pursuant to leases that expires on August 31, 2008 and January 16, 2012 respectively. The office space is currently being used for its manufacturing facility. InSeal leases an aggregate of 220 square meters of office space in Marseille and Paris, France. ITEM 4A. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 5. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS A. OPERATING RESULTS The following discussion and analysis is based on and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements contained in “Item 18. Financial Statements.” Overview We design, develop and sell contactless microprocessor-based smart card systems. Our headquarters and main research and development activities are in Israel. Our sales and marketing efforts are directed from our U.S. subsidiary, OTI America, located in Fort Lee, New Jersey, with additional sales and support offices located in Israel, Europe, South Africa and the Far East. Our packaging, assembly and manufacturing facilities are located in Israel, Germany and Far East. Since our incorporation in 1990, we have focused on the development of our core technologies and our OTI Platform-based products. We currently offer three lines of products, each of which constitutes a complete system, as well as components (such as smart cards and readers) that we sell to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, for incorporation into their own products. Our three complete system product lines include: — Payments Solutions: we offer financial institutions a cashless system and loyalty program to replace cash, which includes the PayPass system that we are installing for MasterCard, our EasyPark system and our mass transit payment system; — Petroleum Systems: OTI's EasyFuel is a wireless, cashless, cardless, and paperless fuel management and petroleum solution which includes both our gasoline management system, or GMS, and our EasyFuel systems; and — Smart ID Solutions: OTI’s solutions for credentialing, identifying and verifying individuals combine the capability to support biometric identification with the portability of smart cards. 34 In 2003 we introduced and began to realize revenues from EasyFuel, our contactless petroleum system, which we expect to account for an increasing proportion of our petroleum system sales. In 1998, we were awarded a contract for the first of our micropayments systems, an electronic parking payment system which we refer to as EasyPark. We began to deploy EasyPark in 2000 and completed deployment of the first system in June 2001. We deployed our first mass transit micropayments system in China during 2000 and in the United States in 2003. In 2002, we began to realize nonrecurring engineering revenues from the PayPass™ micropayments system that we are installing for MasterCard International and we began to recognize product sale revenues from that system in 2004. We began to market components for incorporation into the products of OEMs with our acquisition of InterCard Systemelectronic in June 2000. During 2004, 2005 and 2006, product sales to OEMs accounted for $8.9 million, $6.9 million and $7.8 million, respectively, of our total revenues. We have reported net losses for each year that we have been in business. Our business tends to be seasonal, with greater sales in the third and the fourth quarters of every year, we do not anticipate having net earnings for either of the first two quarters of 2007 and we also cannot assure you that we will be profitable in either of the last two quarters of 2007, or afterwards. Sources of Revenue We have historically derived a substantial majority of our revenues from the sale of our products, including both complete systems and OEM components. A substantial majority of our revenues has been, and is likely to continue to be, from the sale of complete systems. We anticipate that revenues from sales will continue to represent the substantial majority of our revenues in the future. In addition, we generate revenues from licensing and transaction fees, and also, less significantly, from non-recurring engineering, customer services and technical support. We anticipate that revenues from licensing and transaction fees will make a proportionally greater contribution to our total revenues and that revenues from sales will make a proportionally smaller contribution to our revenues in the future. During the past three years, the revenues that we have derived from sales and licensing and transaction fees have been as follows (dollar amounts in thousands): 2004 2005 2006 Sales $ 20,915 90 % $ 32,266 90 % $ 35,171 87 % Licensing and transaction fees 2,237 10 % 3,398 10 % 5,382 13 % $ 23,152 100 % $ 35,664 100 % $ 40,553 100 % Sales increased by $11.4 million and $2.9 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. The increase in 2005 is mainly attributed to an increase in sales of contactless payment products and the increase in 2006 is mainly attributed to smart ID. Licensing and transaction fees include one-time and periodic payments for manufacturing or distribution rights for our products. Transaction fees are paid by customers based on the volume of transactions processed by systems that contain our products. We expect to generate additional revenues from transaction fees in the future as the installation and usage of systems that contain our products become more widespread, and accordingly anticipate that these fees will make a proportionally greater contribution to our total revenues in the future. We have historically derived revenues from different geographical areas. The following table sets forth our revenues, by dollar amount (in thousands) and as a percentage of revenues in different geographical areas, during the past three years: Africa Europe Far East 2004 $ 2,457 11 % $ 14,964 64 % $ 1,325 6 % 2005 $ 3,781 11 % $ 9,266 26 % $ 5,397 15 % 2006 $ 3,200 8 % $ 14,065 35 % $ 11,958 29 % 35 North, Central and South America Israel 2004 $ 2,494 11 % $ 1,912 8 % 2005 $ 14,123 39 % $ 3,097 9 % 2006 $ 8,174 20 % $ 3,156 8 % We anticipate that, over time, the revenues that we derive from the Americas will grow both in absolute amounts and as a percentage of our total revenues. Our revenues derived from outside the U.S., which are primarily received in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, will have a varying impact upon our total revenues, as a result of fluctuations in such currencies’ exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. Cost of revenues and gross margin Our cost of revenues, by revenue source, and gross profit, for each of the past three years were as follows (dollar amounts in thousands): Year ended December 31 2004 2005 2006 Cost of revenues Sales $ 12,799 $ 21,629 $ 21,871 Licensing and transaction fees - - - Total cost of revenues $ 12,799 $ 21,629 $ 21,871 Gross profit $ 10,353 $ 14,035 $ 18,682 Sales. Cost of revenues relating to sales consists primarily of materials, as well as salaries, fees payable to subcontractors and related costs for our technical staff who assemble our products. The increase in 2006 is primarily the result of increased sales which generated corresponding increased costs during the years covered by the table, and dueto execution of the initial stages of new projects which are characterized by lower margins in their early stages. Licensing and transaction fees. Licensing and transaction fees revenues do not have directly attributable cost of revenues. The only costs incurred to initiate the project represent selling and marketing expenses and are classified as such in the consolidated statement of operations. Operating expenses Our operating expenses and operating loss for each of the past three years were as follows (dollar amounts in thousands): Year ended December 31 2004 2005 2006 Operating expenses Research and development $ 3,544 $ 5,405 $ 7,065 Less-- participation by the Office of the Chief Scientist 394 618 -- Research and development, net 3,150 4,787 7,065 Selling and marketing 6,010 7,620 7,072 General and administrative 6,549 9,666 11,948 Amortization of intangible assets 261 700 821 Expenses relating to raising of capital, exchange of subsidiary's employees equity interest in equity interest of the Company and new acquisitions in the Far East* 3,227 1,768 -- Gain from sale of subsidiary -- (374 ) (122 ) Total operating expenses 19,197 24,167 26,784 Operating loss $ (8,844 ) $ (10,132 ) $ (8,102 ) * Consist of internal employee costs from: Research and development $ 335 $ 78 $ - Selling and marketing 511 231 - General and administrative 2,381 1,459 - $ 3,227 $ 1,768 $ - 36 Research and development. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses of our research and development staff, as well as subcontracting expenses. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. The increase in our research and development expenses in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to an increase in expenses related to salaries that resulted from an increase of 17 employees and from an increase of expenses related to options granted to employees in the amount of $0.9 million. The increase in 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily due to a $1 million expense incurred from the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, due to the Company’s decision to cease its participation with the OCS and from increase of expenses related to salaries that resulted from an increase of 18 employees. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in the future as we continue to develop new products and new applications for our existing products and as a result of designing our own microprocessors and smart card operating system. Selling and marketing. Our selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and substantially all of the expenses of our sales and marketing subsidiaries and offices in the United States, South Africa, the Far East and Europe, as well as expenses related to advertising, professional expenses, participation in exhibitions and tradeshows. The increase in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to an increase in expenses related to salaries that resulted mainly from an increase of $1.2 million of expenses related to options granted to employees. The decrease in 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily due to decrease in expenses related to salaries that resulted mainly from a decrease of $1.3 million of expenses related to options granted to employees that was partially off-set by an increase of 8 employees. Due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R the Company incurred in 2006 compensation expense of $115,000. We expect our selling and marketing expenses to increase in the future as we continue to expand our local sales and marketing subsidiaries, open new offices and hire additional personnel. General and administrative. Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses of our executive management, such as management fees and travel expenses, as well as financial and administrative staff. These expenses also include costs of our professional advisors (such as lawyers and accountants), office expenses and insurance and vehicle expenses, which have collectively grown with the scope, magnitude and complexity of our business. The increase in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to increase in expenses related to salaries that resulted mainly from an increase of $0.6 million expenses related to options granted to employees. The increase in 2006 as compared to 2005 is primarily attributed to a $1.2 million expense incurred from the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, to the Chinese subsidiaries which were acquired during the third quarter of 2005, and to an increase in professional services. We expect that general corporate and administrative expenses will increase in the future as we continue to expand our operations. Expenses relating to raising of capital and exchange of subsidiary’s employees equity interest in equity interest of the Company and new acquisitions in the Far East. In 2004 these expenses consisted primarily of $1.1 million of options granted to employees of our South African subsidiary in exchange for their existing shares and options in that subsidiary, $661,000 of options granted and $550,000 of bonuses paid to our employees and $904,000 of expenses related to the repricing of employee options. In 2005, the expenses in the amount of $1.8 million resulted from our activity in connection with the acquisitions in the Far East. 37 Financing income (expenses), net Financing income consists primarily of interest earned on our investments in U.S. treasury securities and foreign exchange gains. Financing expenses consist primarily of interest payable on bank loans and foreign exchange losses. The increase in 2006 financing income as compared to 2005 was primarily due to new investments in U.S. treasury securities made through funds raised in private placements in the fourth quarter of 2005. Our financing income (expenses), net for each of the past three years, has been as follows (in thousands): Year ended December 31 2004 2005 2006 Financing income $ 131 $ 897 $ 2,459 Financing expenses (418 ) (228 ) (747 ) Financing income (expense), net $ (287 ) $ 669 $ 1,712 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Accordingly, we are required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that we believe are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and results of operations. To fully understand and evaluate our reported financial results, we believe it is important to understand our revenue recognition policy, our policy with respect to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and our policy with respect to stock compensation. Revenue recognition. We recognize product sale revenues upon delivery, provided there is persuasive evidence of an agreement and the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the buyer, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable and no further obligation exists. In the case of nonrecurring engineering, revenue is recognized on completion of testing and approval of the customization of the product by the customer and provided that no further obligation exists. Technology license revenues are recognized at the time the technology and license is delivered to the customer, collection is probable, the fee is fixed and determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, no significant obligation remains under the sale or licensing agreement and no significant customer acceptance requirements exist after delivery of the technology. We recognize revenues from customer services and technical support as the services are rendered ratably over the period of the related contract. We recognize transaction fees as they are earned based on usage. Our revenue recognition policies are consistently applied for all revenues recognized. Goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired in a purchase business combination. Goodwill is not amortized, but rather is tested for impairment at least annually or between annual tests if certain events or indicators of impairment occur in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value. Fair value was determined using market capitalization. The test was based on the Company’s single reporting unit structure. During the years 2004, 2005 and 2006, no impairment losses were identified. Purchased intangible assets are carried at cost, less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, generally three to seven years. Goodwill and other intangible assets, net, amounted to approximately $29.2 million as of December 31, 2006. If these estimates change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for our goodwill. As of December 31, 2006 no impairment charges were required. 38 Stock option plans. Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for stock based employee and directors compensation by using the intrinsic value method prescribed in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, (“APB 25”) and related interpretations, as permitted by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (“SFAS 123”). Accordingly, compensation cost for stock options was measured as the excess of the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant over the exercise price and was recognized over the scheduled vesting. On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, (“SFAS 123(R)”) which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors based on estimated fair values. The Company adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified-prospective-transition method. Under the modified-prospective-transition method, compensation cost is recognized on a prospective basis for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123. For share-based payment awards granted after January 1, 2006, the Company recognizes compensation cost based on estimated grant date fair value using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. In accordance with the modified prospective method, the Company’s consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS 123(R). As a result of adopting SFAS 123 (R), the Company’s loss before taxes and minority interests and net loss for the year ended December 31, 2006, are $2,354 larger, and loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2006 is $0.17 larger, than if it had continued to account for share-based compensation under APB 25. Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), the $833 in Additional Paid-In Capital and the offsetting amount in Deferred Stock-Based Compensation, that are both reflected in shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2005, have been reversed as required by SFAS 123 (R). The net effect has no change in total shareholders’ equity. The critical assumptions relate to determining the expected life of the option, considering the outcome of service-related conditions (i.e., vesting requirements and forfeitures), expected volatility of the underlying stock as an estimate of the future price fluctuation for a term commensurate with the expected life of the option, expected dividend yield on the underlying stock, commensurate with the expected life of the option, and the risk-free interest rate commensurate with the expected term of the option. SFAS No. 123 (R) requires that the option pricing model used consider management’s expectations about the life of the option, future dividends, and stock price volatility. Both the volatility and dividend yield components should reflect reasonable expectations commensurate with the expected life of the option. To determine the expected volatility, we generally begin with calculating historical volatility over the most recent period equal to the expected life of the options. The expected dividend yield on the underlying stock for all relevant periods is zero since there is no history of paying dividends. The expected life of an employee stock option award was estimated based on reasonable facts and assumptions on the grant date. These estimates introduce significant judgment into determining the fair value of stock-based compensation awards. During 2006 all options were granted with a par value exercise price. Due to the par value nominal amount of NIS 0.1, the fair value of these options was estimated to be equal to the Company’s share price. Recently Issued Accounting Guidance During June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FASB interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – as interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109", which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. This Interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This Interpretation also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. This Interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. FIN 48 did not have a material impact on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 39 In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, (“SFAS No. 157”). SFAS No. 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The changes to current practice resulting from the application of this Statement relate to the definition of fair value, the methods used to measure fair value, and the expanded disclosures about fair value measurements. The Statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not believe that the adoption of the provisions of SFAS No. 157 will materially impact its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In February, 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115, which permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments at fair value. The Statement allows entities to achieve an offset accounting effect for certain changes in fair value of certain related assets and liabilities without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions, and is expected to expand the use of fair value measurement consistent with the Board’s long-term objectives for financial instruments. This Statement is effective as of the beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. The Company does not believe that the adoption of the provisions of SFAS No. 159 will materially impact its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The SEC released SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, which addresses how uncorrected errors in previous years should be considered when quantifying errors in current-year financial statements. The SAB requires registrants to consider the effect of all carry over and reversing effects of prior-year misstatements when quantifying errors in current-year financial statements. The SAB does not change the SEC staff’s previous guidance on evaluating the materiality of errors. Registrants must adopt the dual method approach for quantifying errors in financial statements as of the beginning of the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006 (January 1, 2006 for calendar-year-end companies), with early adoption permitted. The adoption of the provisions of SAB No. 108 did not materially impact its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. B. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our principal sources of liquidity since our inception have been sales of equity securities, borrowings from banks, convertible loans, cash from the exercise of options and grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist. We had cash and cash equivalents of $30.0 million as of December 31, 2006 and $29.7 million as of December 31, 2005. In addition, we had short-term investments of $18.2 million (representing U.S. treasury securities) as of December 31, 2006 and $20.0 million as of December 31, 2005. We believe that our working capital is sufficient to meet our present requirements. Operating activities. For the year ended December 31, 2006 we used $3.5 million of cash in operating activities primarily due to our net loss of $6.6 million, $3.2 million increase in inventories, $2.4 million increase in trade receivables, $2.1 decrease in other current liabilities and due to $625,000 of minority share in loss of subsidiaries, partially offset by $3.8 million stock-based compensation related to options and shares issued to employees and others, $2.6 million increase in trade payables, $1.9 million charge for depreciation of our property and equipment, $1.1 million decrease in other receivables and prepaid expenses, $1.1 million equity in net losses of an affiliated company, $821,000 amortization of intangible assets and $796,000 increase in accrued severance pay, net. For the year ended December 31, 2005 we have used $940,000 of cash in operating activities primarily due to our net loss of $9.1 million, $1.2 million increase in other receivables and prepaid expenses, $1.1 million decrease in trade payables, $1.0 million increase in inventories as a result of anticipated higher sales in the coming quarters, $587,000 increase in trade receivables, $444,000 of extraordinary gain in business combinations and due to a $374,000 gain from sale of a subsidiary, partially offset by $9.8 million stock-based compensation related to options and shares issued to employees and others , $981,000 charge for depreciation of our property and equipment, $895,000 increase in other current liabilities, $700,000 amortization of intangible assets and $560,000 increase in accrued severance pay, net. Investing and financing activities. For the year ended December 31, 2006, net cash used in investing activities was $1.1 million, mainly due to a $23.6 million investment in available-for-sale securities and to $3.1 million investment in equipment purchases, partially offset by $25.4 million proceeds from maturity of available-for-sale securities and $350,000 receipts on account of loans and receivables related to our disposition of a German subsidiary in 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2005, net cash used in investing activities was $18.8 million, mainly due to an $17.9 million investment in available-for-sale securities, $2.4 million investment in an affiliated company in the Far-East and to $1.9 million investment in equipment purchases, partially offset by $2.4 million proceeds from maturity of available-for-sale securities and $909,000 receipts on account of loans and receivables related to our disposition of a German subsidiary in 2004. 40 For the year ended December 31, 2006, net cash provided by financing activities was $4.9 million, mainly due to $3.2 million due to exercise of options and warrants, $1.5 million of proceeds from minority in subsidiary and $978,000 from long-term bank loans, partially offset by $570,000 repayment of long-term bank loans and by $231,000 decrease in short term credit. For the year ended December 31, 2005, net cash provided by financing activities was $25.4 million, mainly due to $20.1 million proceeds from issuance of shares and detachable warrants (net of issuance costs), and to $6.7 million due to exercise of options and warrants, partially offset by $721,000 repayment of long-term bank loans and by $630,000 decrease in short term credit. Market Risk Market risks relating to our operations result primarily from changes in interest rates and currency fluctuations. In order to limit our exposure, we may enter, from time to time, into various derivative transactions. Our objective is to reduce exposure and fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes. It is our policy and practice from time to time to use derivative financial instruments only to limit exposure. Interest Rate Risks We are exposed to market risks resulting from changes in interest rates, relating primarily to our loan obligations to banks. We do not currently use derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2006, we had fixed interest rate loan obligations of $2.6 million. Of this amount, $1.4 million was denominated in NIS, $1.0 million was denominated in Euro, $114,000 was denominated in South African Rand and $43,000 was denominated in Polish Zloty. These loans will be repaid during the next six years. The carrying value of the loans are equivalent to or approximate their fair market value as they bear interest at approximate market rates. Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuations Our functional and reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. We generate a significant portion of our revenues and we incur some of our expenses in other currencies. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in countries in which we are active other than the United States will exceed the rate of devaluation of such countries’ currencies in relation to the dollar or that the timing of this devaluation will lag behind inflation in such countries. To date, we have not been materially affected by changes in the rate of inflation or the exchange rates of other countries’ currencies compared to the dollar, but we cannot assure you that we will not be adversely affected in the future. The annual rate of inflation (deflation) in Israel was (0.1%) in 2006, 2.4% in 2005 and 1.21% in 2004. The NIS devalued (depreciated) by approximately 8.2% and (6.8%) in 2006 and 2005, respectively, against the U.S. dollar. The functional currency of InterCard Systemelectronic and Inseal SAS is the Euro and of ASEC Spolka Akcyjna is the Polish Zloty and the functional currency of POI and e-Pilot is the Chinese Yuan Renminbi. Significantly all of these subsidiaries’ revenues are earned, and significantly all of their expenses are incurred, in their functional currencies. To the extent that there are fluctuations between the Euro, the Polish Zloty and/or the Chinese Yuan Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, the translation adjustment will be included in our consolidated changes in shareholders’ equity and will not impact the consolidated statement of operations. We do not expect our exposure to these fluctuations to be material. Corporate Tax Rate On July 25, 2005 the Knesset, the Israeli Parliament, passed the Law for the Amendment of the Income Tax Ordinance (No.147 and Temporary Order) – 2005, or the Amendment. The Amendment provides for a gradual reduction in the company tax rate in the following manner: in 2006 the tax rate was 31%, in 2007 the tax rate will be 29%, in 2008 the tax rate will be 27%, in 2009 the tax rate will be 26% and from 2010 onward the tax rate will be 25%. Furthermore, as from 2010, upon reduction of the company tax rate to 25%, real capital gains will be subject to tax of 25%. As of December 31, 2006, our net operating loss carry-forwards for Israeli tax purposes amounted to approximately $45 million. Under Israeli law, net operating losses can be carried forward indefinitely and offset against certain future taxable income. Since we have incurred tax losses through December 31, 2006, we have not yet utilized the tax benefits for which we are eligible under the “Approved Enterprise” status. $4.5 million of our investment programs in buildings, equipment and production facilities have been granted “Approved Enterprise” status and we are, therefore, eligible for a tax exemption under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959. Subject to compliance with applicable requirements, the portion of our income derived from the “Approved Enterprise” programs is tax-exempt for a period of the earliest of (1) ten years commencing in the first year in which it generates taxable income, (2) 14 years from the date of approval or (3) 12 years from the date of beginning of production. If we do not comply with these requirements, the tax benefits may be cancelled and we may be required to refund the amount of benefits received, in whole or in part, with the addition of linkage differences to the Israeli consumer price index and interest. As of the date of this annual report, we believe that we are in compliance with these conditions. 41 Government of Israel Support Programs Until 2005 we participated in programs offered by the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade (“OCS”) that support research and development activities. We received and obtained grants of $394,000 in 2004 and $618,000 in 2005 from OCS. Under the terms of these grants, a royalty of 3% to 3.5% of the sales of products must be paid to the OCS, beginning with the commencement of sales of products developed with grant funds and ending when the dollar value of the grant is repaid. In 2006 we decided to cease our participation with the OCS. Royalties payable with respect to grants received under programs approved after January 1, 1999, however, will be subject to interest on the dollar-linked value of the total grants received at an annual rate of LIBOR applicable to dollar deposits. As of December 31, 2006, we have received a total of $5.3 million from the OCS net of royalties paid to it (or accrued for). The terms of Israeli government participation also require that the manufacturing of products developed with government grants be performed in Israel, unless the OCS has granted special approval. If the OCS consents to the manufacture of the products outside Israel, we may be required to pay increased royalties, ranging from 120% to 300% of the amount of the OCS grant, depending on the percentage of foreign manufacture. These restrictions continue to apply even after we have paid the full amount of royalties payable in respect of the grants. Based upon the aggregate grants received to date, we expect that we will continue to pay royalties to the OCS to the extent of our sales of our products and related services for the foreseeable future. Separate OCS consent is required to transfer to third parties technologies developed through projects in which the government participates. These restrictions do not apply to exports from Israel of products developed with these technologies. C. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES, ETC. Discussed above in "Item 5.A. Overview." D. TREND INFORMATION Discussed above in "Item 5.A. Overview." E. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS None. F. TABULAR DISCLOSURE OF CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS As of December 31, 2006, we and our subsidiaries had contractual obligations which are expected to affect our consolidated cash flow in future periods as follows: (in thousands) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and thereafter Total Operating lease obligations $ 903 $ 749 $ 481 $ 149 $ 149 $ 2,431 Long-term debt obligations $ 461 $ 449 $ 470 $ 381 $ 817 $ 2,578 Total $ 1,364 $ 1,198 $ 951 $ 530 $ 966 $ 5,009 We shall also pay royalties to the Office of the Chief Scientist as discussed above in B, Liquidity and Capital Resources. 42 For additional information on our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2006, under long-term bank loans and operating leases, see Notes 8 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements. For a description of liens on our assets see Note 9C to our consolidated financial statements. ITEM 6. DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES A. DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT Management The following table sets forth certain information concerning our current directors and executive officers, including officers of certain of our subsidiaries: Name Age Position Oded Bashan (1) 60 President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Director Ronnie Gilboa 50 Vice President--Projects and Director Guy Shafran 35 Chief Financial Officer Moshe Aduk 50 Vice President--Gasoline Management System Nehemya Itay 57 Vice President--Hardware Engineering Ohad Bashan 36 Chief Marketing Officer; Chief Executive Officer, OTI America, Inc., and Director Eliezr Manor (1)(2)(3) 59 Director Ora Setter (1)(2)(3) 56 Director Eli Akavia (1)(2) 59 Director Shlomo Tussia-Cohen (1)(2)(3) 35 Director (1) Compensation committee member (2) Audit committee member (3) External director Oded Bashan co-founded the Company in 1990 and has continued to serve as our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman since that time. Prior to founding us, he served as the president of Electo-Galil, an Israeli manufacturer of radio frequency identification cards, from 1984 to 1990. Mr. Bashan is Chairman of OTI America, Inc., OTI Africa Ltd., SoftChip Technologies (3000) Ltd., Easy Park Ltd. and Easy Park Israel Ltd. and a director of ASEC, Millennium Card’s Technology Ltd., and Z.H.R. Industrial Park Company Ltd. In 1997, Mr. Bashan was awarded the Leading Businessman Award in Management, Business and Economics by the Israeli Institute of Public Opinion. He is currently a member of the trustee committee of the Tel-Chai College and a member of the consulting committee for the Executive MBA program at Bar Ilan University. Mr. Bashan holds both a B.Sc and an M.Sc in economics and business management from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Ronnie Gilboa co-founded the Company in 1990 and has continued to serve as a director since that time. From 1990 to the end of 2001 he served as Vice President R&D and since that date has served as our Vice President-Projects. He serves on the board of directors of OTI America, Inc., ASEC S.A, OTI Africa Ltd., Easy Park Ltd., Easy Park Israel Ltd. and Softchip Technologies (3000) Ltd. Prior to founding us, Mr. Gilboa was the manager of research and development at Electo-Galil, an Israeli manufacturer of radio frequency-based identification cards, from 1984 to 1990. Mr. Gilboa holds a B.Sc. in electrical engineering from The Technion (Israeli Institute of Technology). Guy Shafran serves as our Chief Financial Officer, having served in that position since June 2000, and has served as a director of Easy Park Ltd. since June 2000 and as a director of Easy Park (Israel) Ltd. since March 2002. Since 2005 Mr. Shafran also serves as the President and Chairman of Millennium Card’s Technology Ltd. Mr. Shafran is a director in Easy Park Ltd., and Millennium Card’s Technology Ltd. Prior to joining us, Mr. Shafran was chief financial officer at the Israel Cold Storage and Supply Company Ltd., an Israeli public company engaged in the distribution of soft drinks and cold storage, from June 1996 to March 2000. From July 1995 to February 1996, Mr. Shafran was assistant to the chairman of the Baran Group Ltd., an Israeli engineering company. Mr. Shafran holds a B.A. in economics with a specialization in business administration from Ben Gurion University, Beer Sheba, and a MEI Graduate Degree in Management specializing in International Management and Entrepreneurship from Swinburne University of Technology. 43 Moshe Aduk serves as our Vice President–Gasoline Management System, having served in that position since July 1995. From 1990 to July 1995, he was employed by us as a research and development engineer. He served as a director from 1995 to July 1999. Prior to joining us, Mr. Aduk was a hardware and software development engineer at Electo-Galil, an Israeli manufacturer of radio frequency-based identification cards, from 1985 to 1990. From 1984 to 1985, he was employed as a technical support engineer at Motorola Israel. Mr. Aduk holds a B.Sc. in electrical engineering from The Technion (Israeli Institute of Technology). Nehemya Itay serves as our Vice President–Hardware Engineering, having served in that position since July 1995. From 1990 to July 1995, he was employed by us as a research and development engineer. He served as a director from 1991 to July 1999. Mr. Itay is a member of the Joint Task Committee of the International Standards Organisation on standards for contactless smart cards. Prior to joining us, Mr. Itay was a hardware development engineer at Electo-Galil, an Israeli manufacturer of radio frequency-based identification cards, from 1986 to 1990. From 1982 to 1985, he was an hardware electronic engineer at Elscint, an Israeli technology company. Mr. Itay holds a B.Sc. in electrical engineering from The Technion (Israeli Institute of Technology) and an M.A. in electronics from Drexel University, Philadelphia. Ohad Bashan has served as Chief Marketing Officer and prior to that as our Head of Global Marketing and Strategy Development since June 2000. Mr. Bashan also serves as Chief Executive Officer and a director of OTI America, Inc., since 1998, and as a director of our board, and Millennium Card’s Technology Ltd. since 2005. From 1996 to August 1998, he was our business development manager. Mr. Bashan holds a B.A. in business from the College of Business Management, Tel Aviv, with specializations in marketing and finance, and an M.B.A. from Pepperdine University, California. Ohad Bashan is the son of Oded Bashan. Eliezer Manor serves as a director, having served in that position since July 2003. He serves as a managing partner and co-founder of Global Catalyst Partners (GCP) VC Fund, a managing partner and co-founder of Global Catalyst Partners II VC Fund, as a director of Trans Balkan Fund (a private equity fund active in Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia), a director on several portfolio companies of GCP, a member of the Executive Steering Committee of China VC Research Institute and as a lecturer and consultant in Israel and abroad on Hi-Tech and Venture Capital. Mr. Manor holds a B.Sc. Physics from the Tel Aviv University and a M.Sc. Applied Physics from the Weizmann Institute of Science, Israel. Ora Setter (PhD) serves as a director, having served in that position since August 2006. Until recently the CEO and Academic Director of Lahav – Executive Education Center in Tel Aviv University. Lecturer at the Recanati Business School and at the department of Labor Studies, Tel Aviv University, and in other academic institutions. Dr. Setter is a consultant to many leading companies in Israel, focusing on Organizational Development and business, and specializing on Knowledge Management and implementation of KM systems, and in building and organizing training programs for organizations. She is also a well known lecturer and writer. In the past Dr. Setter was the entrepreneur and Managing Director of Book A la Carte – as start up company dealing with publishing books through the Internet. Dr Setter’s areas of teaching and research include Psychological Contracts in organizations, Leadership, Organizational Diagnosis & Development, Real and Virtual Team Building, Organizational Politics and Power and Career Dynamics. Dr. Setter serves in the board of several organizations – business companies and NGO’s. She is the organizing force and leader of the “Women promoting women” network in Israel, including most of the women leaders in business, academia, public sector and NGO’s. Recently Dr. Setter is completing her second Masters Degree in South Asian Studies in Tel Aviv University, and is involved with several ventures as a partner and business consultant. Eli Akavia, serves as a director, having served in that position since December 2003. Mr. Akavia is an independent consultant. Mr. Akavia worked for Luboshitz Kasierer, an Israeli auditing firm (formerly a member firm of Arthur Andersen and currently merged with Ernst & Young, Israel) for 30 years, first as an employee and later as a senior partner. Mr. Akavia’s roles at Luboshitz Kasierer included: Head of Audit Department, Head of Hi Tech Division and Partner in charge of the Firm Professional Standards Group. He specialized in hi-tech companies and accumulated invaluable experience in US GAAP and SEC rules. Mr. Akavia has participated in a large number of companies’ initial public offerings in the United States. 44 Shlomo Toussia-Cohen serves as a director, having served in that position since June 2005. From 2002 to 2005 Mr. Toussia-Cohen worked as senior assistant to Director General of the Israeli Broadcasting Authority – the Israeli Public TV and Radio. Until recently he worked as chief executive officer and member of the investment committee in the Education Fund for Journalists (1977) Ltd. Holding a Master degree in Law (L.L.M.) with specialization in private law from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and a bachelor degree in Business (B.A.) with specialization in finance from the Interdisciplinary Center of Herzelia, Mr. Toussia-Cohen works as a Lawyer and is a member of both the Israeli Bar and the of New York State bar. B. COMPENSATION Executive Compensation The aggregate compensation paid by us and our subsidiaries to our executive directors and executive officers listed above under “Management,” in the year ended December 31, 2006 was $1,530,000. This amount includes approximately $280,000 set aside or accrued to provide pension, severance, retirement or similar benefits or expenses, but does not include business travel, relocation, professional and business association dues and expenses reimbursed to officers, and other benefits commonly reimbursed or paid by companies in Israel. Non-executive directors are reimbursed for their expenses for each board meeting attended and in addition receive compensation for their service on the board. Our executive directors do not receive compensation for their service on the board of directors or any committee of the board of directors. The aggregate amount paid by us and our subsidiaries to our non-executive directors listed above under “Management,” in the year ended December 31, 2006 was $57,000. See “Item 6. E. Share Ownership” for information on beneficial ownership of our shares by our directors and executive officers. We have no outstanding loans to any of our directors or executive officers. Employment Agreements We maintain written employment and related agreements with all of our office holders. These agreements provide for monthly salaries and contributions by us to executive insurance and vocational studies funds. The employment agreements of certain of our office holders further provide that we may give the employee an annual bonus in accordance with targets to be determined by the compensation committee by December 31 of each calendar year in respect of the following year. In determining the amount of the bonus, the compensation committee must relate it to our revenues or profits, as applicable to the employee. We approved bonus plan principles for our senior management on a shareholders’ general meeting held on January 31, 2003. If justifiable in light of our quarterly financial results, we may make advances on bonus payments pursuant to a resolution of our board of directors. All of our office holders’ employment and related agreements contain provisions regarding noncompetition, confidentiality of information and assignment of inventions. The enforceability of covenants not to compete in Israel is unclear. Agreement with Oded Bashan. The employment agreement of Oded Bashan, dated July 1, 2004, as was amended on our shareholders meetings dated June 3, 2005 and August 24, 2006 provides for a five-year term ending on June 30, 2009. Mr. Bashan may terminate his employment, and we may terminate his employment for reasonable and justifiable cause, in either case on six months’ notice. In the event of termination, Mr. Bashan is entitled to receive severance pay equal to twice the rate of one month’s current salary multiplied by the number of years of employment. In the event we terminate his employment prior to June 30, 2009, unless the termination occurred as a result of circumstances depriving him of the right to severance pay at law or as a result of a breach of fiduciary duty or a material breach of confidentiality or noncompetition undertakings, we are required to continue paying Mr. Bashan a monthly salary, including benefits but excluding bonuses, until June 30, 2009, and in any event, for a period that shall not be less than six months following the notice period described above. In addition to the salary, contributions and bonus described above, Mr. Bashan is entitled under his contract of employment to an additional bonus of $15,000 for every one percent increase in our average share price quoted for the last two months of any year over the average share price quoted for the last two months of the preceding year. Agreement with Ronnie Gilboa. The employment agreement of Ronnie Gilboa, dated July 1, 1999, provides for a five-year term ended on June 30, 2004, and was extended automatically for a non-determined period. Mr. Gilboa may terminate his employment, and we may terminate his employment for reasonable and justifiable cause, in either case on six months’ notice. In the event of termination, Mr. Gilboa is entitled to receive severance pay equal to twice the statutory rate of one month’s current salary multiplied by the number of years of employment. 45 Agreement with Guy Shafran. The employment agreement of Guy Shafran, dated January 1, 2006, provides for a three-year term ended on December 31, 2009, with an option for additional two years and is automatically extended unless terminated as described below. In the event of termination, Mr. Shafran is entitled to receive severance pay equal to twice the rate of one month’s current salary multiplied by the number of years of employment in OTI or one of its subsidiaries. Mr. Shafran is expected to work in Hong-Kong for three years with option for an additional two years and in the event that the employment abroad or in connection to it will be terminated before such period, Mr. Shafran will be paid in full and will be entitled to all terms as if such a termination did not exist. Mr. Shafran may terminate his employment on six months notice, and we may terminate his employment for reasonable or justifiable cause on one year notice. In the event of termination of employment, unless the termination occurred as a result of circumstances depriving Mr. Shafran of the right to severance pay at law or as a result of a breach of fiduciary duty or a material breach of his confidentiality or noncompetition undertakings, Mr. Shafran shall be entitled to additional six months severance payments with full terms and benefits. Agreements with Moshe Aduk and Nehemya Itay. The employment agreements of Moshe Aduk and Nehemya Itay, each dated July 1, 1999, provide for a five-year term ending on June 30, 2004, and were extended automatically for a non-determined period. These individuals may terminate their employment, and we may terminate their employment for reasonable and justifiable cause, in either case on six months’ notice. In the event of termination, these individuals are entitled to receive severance pay equal to twice the rate of one month’s current salary multiplied by the number of years of employment. In the event we terminate the employment of either Mr. Aduk or Mr. Itay, unless the termination occurred as a result of circumstances depriving them of the right to severance pay at law or as a result of a breach of fiduciary duty or a material breach of his confidentiality or noncompetition undertakings, we are required to continue paying each of them a monthly salary for three months following the notice period described above. Agreement with Ohad Bashan. The employment agreement of Ohad Bashan with OTI America, Inc., dated October 6, 2005, was approved by OTI America, OTI and our General Meeting of shareholders on November 12, 2005. Mr. Bashan may terminate his employment on six months notice and we may terminate his employment on six months notice. In the event we terminate his employment, Mr. Bashan shall be entitled to six months severance payments with full terms and benefits, and shall be entitled to severance payment in an amount equal to two monthly salaries for each year Mr. Bashan was employed with the Company or OTI America, in addition to all benefits and salary Mr. Bashan is entitled to during the six month period. In the event that the notice of termination is within the school year of Mr. Bashan’s children, Mr. Bashan will be entitled to full compensation until the end of such school year, provided, however, that such year started on or before the notice of termination. In addition to his monthly salary, Mr. Bashan shall be entitled to receive a special annual bonus of 0.5% of the annual sales in the Americas markets. The bonus will be paid during the month of April of the following year of the actual sales, as recognized in OTI’s financial statements. In addition, OTI America has the right to assign Mr. Bashan’s employment agreement to us, and require Mr. Bashan to relocate to Israel. C. BOARD PRACTICES Election of Directors; Appointment of Officers Our current board of directors consists of seven directors. Under our articles of association, our board of directors may not consist at any time of more than nine members. A majority of these directors must be non-executive directors, who are directors that are neither office holders nor our employees. Directors are appointed, removed or replaced, by a majority vote of our shareholders present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of shareholders. Once elected at a shareholders’ meeting, our directors, except our external directors, hold office until the first general meeting of shareholders held at least thirty six months after their election, except for Mr. Oded Bashan and Mr. Ronnie Gilboa who may not be replaced or removed unless by an affirmative vote of 75% of the Company’s shareholders entitled to vote and voting in person or by proxy at a general meeting of shareholders. Incumbent directors may be reelected at that meeting. Unless contrary to the law, a director may be elected for consecutive terms. 46 Under the new Israeli Companies Law, which took effect on February 1, 2000 (the “Companies Law”), the chief executive officer of a public company may not serve as a chairman of the board of directors unless authorized by a general meeting of the shareholders and then only for a period of time that does not exceed three years. On August 24, 2006 our shareholders authorized our CEO, Oded Bashan, to act as our chairman for an additional three-year period, after such date, we plan to recommend to our shareholders to authorize Mr. Bashan to act as our CEO for an additional 3-year period Our board of directors appoints our chief executive officer. Each of our executive officers serves at the discretion of the board of directors, subject to the terms of any employment agreement, and holds office until his or her successor is elected or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Except for Ohad Bashan, our Chief Marketing Officer, and President and Chief Executive Officer of OTI America, who is the son of Oded Bashan, our co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, none of our directors or executive officers has any family relationship with any other director or executive officer. External Directors The Israeli Companies Law requires Israeli companies with shares that have been offered to the public in or outside of Israel to appoint at least two external directors. No person may be appointed as an external director of a company if the person, or the person’s relative, partner, employer or any entity under the person’s control, has, or had within the two years preceding the person’s appointment as an external director, any affiliation with the company or with any entity controlling, controlled by or under common control with the company. The term “affiliation” includes control, an employment relationship, a business or professional relationship maintained on a regular basis, or service as an office holder, excluding service as a director appointed to serve as an external director in a company that intends to make an initial offering of its shares to the public. The term “office holder” is defined as a director, general manager, chief business manager, deputy general manager, vice general manager, executive vice president, vice president, other manager directly subordinate to the general manager or any other person assuming the responsibilities of any of the foregoing positions, without regard to such person’s title. Each person listed in the table above is an office holder. The external directors were not office holders until elected. In addition, no person may serve as an external director if that person’s other positions or business activities create, or may create, a conflict of interest with the person’s service as an external director or may otherwise interfere with the person’s ability to serve as an external director. If, at the time an external director is appointed, all current members of the board of directors are of the same gender, then that external director must be of the other gender. Regulations promulgated under the Companies Law provide that the requirement of Israeli residency does not apply to the external directors of companies whose shares are listed for trading outside of Israel. External directors are elected by a majority vote at a shareholders’ meeting at which either the majority of shares voted at the meeting, including at least one-third of the shares held by non-controlling shareholders voted at the meeting, vote in favor of the election of the external director, or the total number of shares held by non-controlling shareholders voted against the election of the external director does not exceed one percent of the aggregate voting rights in the company. The initial term of an external director is three years and under new legislation that apply to Israeli companies whose shares that have been offered to the public outside of Israel or traded on a stock exchange outside of Israel, may be extended for consecutive additional three year periods (unlike other public companies, in which only one additional three year period is allowed). External directors may only be removed by the same percentage of shareholders as is required for their election, or by a court, and then only if the external directors cease to meet the statutory qualifications for their appointment or if they violate their duty of loyalty to the company. If an external directorship becomes vacant, our board of directors is required under the Companies Law to call a shareholders’ meeting immediately to appoint a new external director. A company may not appoint an external director as an office holder and may not employ or receive services from an external director, directly or indirectly, including through a corporation controlled by that person, for two years following the termination of his or her service as an external director of that company. Each committee of our board of directors must include at least one external director and the audit committee must include all of the external directors. An external director is entitled to compensation as provided in regulations adopted under the Companies Law and is otherwise prohibited from receiving any other compensation, directly or indirectly, in connection with services provided as an external director. 47 In addition, the audit committee of our board of directors must include at least three independent directors within the meaning of the NASDAQ Global Market listing requirements. Our directors Shlomo Toussia-Cohen, Eliezer Manor and Ora Setter, qualify as external directors under the Companies Law and independent directors under the NASDAQ Global Market listing requirements. In addition, our director Eli Akavia, CPA, qualifies as an independent director under the NASDAQ Global Market listing requirements. Alternate Directors Under our articles of association, each of our directors, other than our external directors, may appoint, by written notice to us, any person to serve as an alternate director. Under the Companies Law, a current director cannot be appointed as an alternate director nor can a currently-serving alternate director be appointed as an alternate director. An alternate director has all the rights and duties of the director appointing him, unless the appointment of the alternate provides otherwise, and the right to remuneration. The alternate director may not act at any meeting at which the appointing director is present. Unless the time period or scope of the appointment is limited by the appointing director, the appointment is effective for all purposes, but expires upon the expiration of the appointing director’s term. Currently, none of our directors has appointed any alternate directors. Directors’ Service Contracts Except directors who are also officers of the Company, none of our directors have any services contracts either with us, or with any of our subsidiaries, which provide for benefits upon termination of employment or service. Exculpation, Indemnification and Insurance of Office Holders Under the Companies Law, an Israeli company may only exculpate an office holder in advance, in whole or in part, for breach of duty of care and only if a provision authorizing such exculpation is included in its articles of association. Our articles of association include such a provision. A company may not exculpate an office holder in advance from his liability towards the company which is caused by a breach of duty of care in case of distribution (as defined in the Companies Law). A company may not exculpate an office holder for breach of duty of loyalty. However, the company may approve an act performed in breach of the duty of loyalty of an office holder provided that the office holder acted in good faith, the act or its approval does not harm the company, and the office holder discloses the nature of his or her personal interest in the act and all material facts and documents a reasonable time before discussion of the approval. A company may indemnify an office holder in respect of certain liabilities either in advance of an event or following an event provided a provision authorizing such indemnification is inserted in its articles of association. Advance indemnification of an office holder must be limited to the following: — a financial liability imposed on him in favor of another person pursuant to a judgment, settlement or arbitrator’s award approved by court provided that the indemnification shall be limited to events which are determined by the board of directors, are foreseeable in light of the company’s activities at the time when the obligation for indemnification is granted, and to amounts and standards which are determined by the board of directors as reasonable in such event, and provided that the obligation for indemnification will specify the said events and amounts or standards; — reasonable litigation expenses, including attorneys’ fees, incurred by the office holder or imposed by a court in proceedings instituted against him by the company, on its behalf or by a third party, in connection with criminal proceedings in which the officer holder was acquitted or as a result of a conviction for a crime that does not require proof of criminal intent; and — reasonable litigation expenses, including attorneys’ fees, incurred by the office holder due to investigation or proceedings instituted against the office holder by an authority authorized to conduct such investigation or proceedings and ended without filing an indictment against him and without imposing monetary liability as an alternative to criminal proceedings or ended without filing an indictment against him but in imposing monetary liability as an alternative to criminal proceedings for a crime that does not require proof of criminal intent. A company may insure an office holder against the following liabilities incurred for acts performed as an office holder: — a breach of duty of loyalty to the company, to the extent that the office holder acted in good faith and had a reasonable basis to believe that the act would not prejudice the company; 48 — a breach of duty of care to the company or to a third party; and — a financial liability imposed on the office holder in favor of a third party. An Israeli company may not indemnify or insure an office holder against any of the following: — a breach of duty of loyalty, except to the extent that the office holder acted in good faith and had a reasonable basis to believe that the act would not prejudice the company; — a breach of duty of care committed intentionally or recklessly except that such recklessness is made solely negligently; — an act or omission committed with intent to derive illegal personal benefit; or — a fine levied against the office holder. Under the Companies Law, indemnification and insurance of office holders must be approved by our audit committee and our board of directors and, in specified circumstances, by our shareholders. Our articles of association allow us to indemnify and insure our office holders to the fullest extent permitted by the Companies Law. Our office holders are currently covered by a directors and officers’ liability insurance policy with an aggregate claim limit of $5 million. As of the date of this annual report, no claims for directors and officers’ liability insurance have been filed under this policy. Our U.S. subsidiary has also entered into indemnification agreements with certain of its key employees. These agreements provide, independent of the indemnification these individuals are entitled to by law and under the provisions of the subsidiary’s charter, indemnification for certain acts while employed by the subsidiary. These indemnification agreements contain exclusions, such as limiting indemnification that would be unlawful or that is covered by other liability insurance. Moreover, employees are not indemnified against liability to the extent that the employee gained a personal profit to which he or she is not legally entitled, including proceeds obtained from the illegal trading of our equity securities. The performance of these agreements is guaranteed by us as parent of the U.S. subsidiary, to the extent permitted by Israeli law. Compensation Committee Our board of directors established our compensation committee in July 1999. The duties of the compensation committee are to review the terms of employment of our senior management, to review and recommend to our board of directors the issuance and the allocation of options under our share option plans and to perform any other task delegated by our board of directors. The current members of our compensation committee are Oded Bashan, Eliezer Manor, Shlomo Toussia-Cohen and Eli Akavia. Steering Committee Our board of directors established our Steering Committee in November 2004. The duties of the Steering Committee are to review the deployment of our company towards the implementation of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The current members of our Steering Committee are our CFO, Controller, General Counsel and in addition Oded Bashan and Eli Akavia. Audit Committee Our board of directors established our audit committee in July 1999. The Companies Law requires public companies to appoint an audit committee consisting of at least three directors, including all the external directors. The audit committee’s responsibilities are governed by a written charter. The responsibilities of the audit committee include appointing our independent registered public accounting firm (subject to the shareholders approval under the Companies Law) and identifying irregularities in the management of our business in consultation with our independent accountants and the internal auditor and suggesting appropriate responses. The audit committee’s responsibilities also include approving related party transactions as required by the Companies Law. Neither the chairman of the board of directors, nor any director employed by or otherwise providing services on a regular basis to us, a controlling shareholder, or relative of a controlling shareholder may be a member of the audit committee. The audit committee may not approve an action or a transaction with a controlling shareholder, or with an office holder, unless at least two external directors are serving on the audit committee at the time of the approval, one of whom is present at the meeting at which the approval is granted. In addition, pursuant to the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, we are required to maintain an audit committee including at least three independent directors. In accordance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our Audit Committee is required to pre-approve all audit and permitted non-audit services provided by our external auditors. 49 The current members of our audit committee are Shlomo Toussia-Cohen, Ora Setter, Eliezer Manor and Eli Akavia, all of which are “independent directors.” Eli Akavia is the Audit Committee’s Chairman, and our board has determined that he is an “Audit Committee Financial Expert.” Internal Auditor Under the Companies Law, the board of directors must appoint an internal auditor that is recommended by the audit committee. The role of the internal auditor is to examine, among other things, whether the company’s actions comply with the law and orderly business procedure. Under the Companies Law, the internal auditor may not be an office holder or an interested party, as defined below, or a relative of an office holder or an interested party, and he or she may not be the company’s independent accountant or the independent accountant’s representative. The Companies Law defines an “interested party” as a holder of 5% or more of the issued shares or voting rights of a company, a person or entity who has the right to designate at least one director or the general manager of the company, and a person who serves as a director or general manager. During 2006, our audit committee recommended and our board of directors appointed Rosenblum Holzman & Co., as our internal auditors. Fiduciary Duties; Approval of Certain Transactions The Companies Law codifies the fiduciary duties that office holders owe to a company. An office holder’s fiduciary duties consist of a duty of care and a duty of loyalty. The duty of care requires an office holder to act with the degree of care with which a reasonable office holder in the same position would act under the same circumstances. The duty of care includes using reasonable means to obtain information as to the advisability of a given action submitted for his or her approval or performed by virtue of his or her position, as well as all other information pertaining to such actions. The duty of loyalty requires an office holder to act in good faith and for the benefit of the company, and includes avoiding any conflict of interest between the office holder’s other positions or personal affairs and the performance of his or her position in the company, avoiding any competition with the company, avoiding exploiting any business opportunity of the company in order to receive a personal benefit for himself or herself or others, and revealing to the company any information or documents relating to the company’s affairs which come into the office holder’s possession as a result of his or her position as an office holder. The Companies Law further requires that an office holder disclose to the company any personal interest that he or she may have and all related material information known to him or her in connection with any existing or proposed transaction by the company. The disclosure must be made promptly and in no event later than the board of directors meeting at which the transaction is first discussed. In addition, if the transaction is an extraordinary transaction, as defined below, the office holder must also disclose any personal interest held by the office holder’s spouse, siblings, parents, grandparents, descendants, spouse’s descendants and the spouses of any of the foregoing and by any corporation in which the office holder is a 5% or greater shareholder, director or general manager or in which he or she has the right to appoint the general manager or at least one director. The Companies Law defines an “extraordinary transaction” as a transaction that is not in the ordinary course of business, that is not on market terms, or that is likely to have a material impact on a company’s profitability, assets or liabilities. In the case of a transaction between the company and an office holder, or a third party in which an office holder has a personal interest, but that is not an extraordinary transaction and is not adverse to the company’s interest, once the office holder complies with the above disclosure requirements only board approval is required unless the articles of association of the company provide otherwise. In the case of an extraordinary transaction between the company and an office holder, or a third party in which an office holder has a personal interest, in addition to any approval required by the articles of association, the transaction must be approved first by the audit committee, then by the board of directors and, in certain cases, by the shareholders. A director who has a personal interest in a matter that is considered at a meeting of the board of directors or the audit committee may in general not be present at this meeting or vote on this matter. If a majority of the directors have a personal interest in an extraordinary transaction, these directors are permitted to be present and vote on the transaction, but shareholder approval is also required. Under NASDAQ Rule 4350(h), the Company should conduct an appropriate review of all related party transactions for potential conflict of interest situations on an ongoing basis and all such transactions should be approved by the company’s audit committee or another independent body of the Board of Directors. 50 Under the Companies Law, all arrangements as to compensation of office holders who are not directors require approval by the board of directors, and undertakings to indemnify or insure an office holder who is not a director require both board and audit committee approval. In general, arrangements regarding the compensation, indemnification and insurance of directors require audit committee and shareholder approval in addition to board approval. Under NASDAQ Rule 4350(c)(3)(A), compensation of the Chief Executive Officer must be determined, or recommended to the Board for determination, either by: (i) a majority of the independent directors, or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. The Chief Executive Officer may not be present during voting or deliberations. Under NASDAQ Rule 4350(c)(3)(B) compensation of all executive officers, except the Chief Executive Officer, must be determined, or recommended to the Board for determination, either by (i) a majority of the independent directors, or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. The Companies Law applies the same disclosure requirements to a controlling party of a public company that it applies, as described above, to an office holder. For these purposes a “controlling party” is any person possessing the ability to direct the activities of the company, including a shareholder which holds 25% or more of the voting rights of the company if no other shareholder owns more than 50% of the voting rights in the company, but excluding a person whose power is derived solely from his or her position on the board of directors or from another position with the company. Two or more shareholders with a personal interest in the approval of the same transaction are deemed to be joint shareholders. Extraordinary transactions with a controlling party or in which a controlling party has a personal interest, and the engagement and terms of compensation of a controlling party as an office holder, require the approval of the audit committee, the board of directors and the shareholders. Shareholder approval must be by a majority of shares voted at the meeting, including at least one-third of the shares of the disinterested shareholders who are present, in person or by proxy, at the meeting, or, alternatively, the total shareholdings of the disinterested shareholders who vote against the transaction must not represent more than 1% of the aggregate voting rights in the company. Under the Companies Law, a shareholder has a duty to refrain from abusing his or her power in the company and to act in good faith in exercising its rights and performing its obligations to the company and other shareholders, including, among other things, voting at a general meeting of shareholders on the following matters: — an amendment to the articles of association; — an increase in the company's authorized share capital; — a merger; and — approval of a related-party transaction requiring shareholder approval. In addition, any controlling shareholder, any shareholder who knows that its vote can determine the outcome of a shareholder vote and any shareholder who, under a company’s articles of association, can appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder, is under a duty to act with fairness towards the company. The Companies Law does not describe the substance of this duty. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation Other than Oded Bashan, who serves as a member of our compensation committee, none of the members of our compensation committee or audit committee is currently, or has ever been at any time since our formation, an officer or employee of our company. D. EMPLOYEES The breakdown of the number of our employees, including employees in our subsidiaries, by department, is as follows: Number of employees as of December 31 Department 2004 2005 2006 Sales and marketing 25 31 39 Research and development and engineering 59 86 103 Manufacturing and operations 64 361 301 Customer support 9 21 20 Management and administration 61 127 125 Total 218 625 588 51 The decrease in the number of our employees in 2006 compared to 2005 was mainly in manufacturing and operation in the Far East. Of our employees, on December 31, 2006, 133 were based in Israel, 13 in the United States, 100 in Europe, 29 in South Africa and 313 in the Far East. Under applicable law and by order of the Israeli Ministry of Labor and Welfare, we and our Israeli employees are subject to certain provisions of the collective bargaining agreements between the Histadrut, the General Federation of Labor in Israel and the Coordination Bureau of Economic Organizations, including the Industrialists Association. These provisions principally concern cost of living increases, length of the working day, minimum daily wages for professional employees, contributions to pension funds, insurance for work-related accidents, procedures for dismissing employees, determination of severance pay, annual and other vacation, sick pay and other conditions of employment. We provide our employees with benefits and working conditions above the required minimum and which we believe are competitive with benefits and working conditions provided by similar companies in Israel. Our employees are not represented by a labor union. We have written employment agreements with substantially all of our employees. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense and it may be difficult to attract or maintain qualified personnel to our offices. We dedicate significant resources to employee retention and have never experienced work stoppages and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. E. SHARE OWNERSHIP The following table sets forth certain information as of June 20, 2007 regarding the beneficial ownership of our ordinary shares by each of our directors and executive officers: Shares beneficially owned Name of beneficial owner Number Percent Oded Bashan (1) 5,297,315 27.5 % Ronnie Gilboa 152,089 *** Guy Shafran (2) 86,998 *** Moshe Aduk (3) 179,487 *** Nehemya Itay (4) 189,689 *** Ohad Bashan 203,997 1.06 % Shlomo Tussia-Cohen (5) 40,000 *** Eliezer Manor (6) 78,500 *** Ora Setter ----- *** Eli Akavia (7) 65,000 *** All executive officers and directors as a group 6,293,075 32.7 % *** Less than 1% (1) Includes 677,803 ordinary shares held by Mr. Bashan. Also includes 7,462 ordinary shares held by Mr. Bashan’s wife. Mr. Bashan disclaims beneficial ownership of the share held by his wife. Also includes 4,612,050 ordinary shares as to which Mr. Bashan has voting power pursuant to irrevocable proxy granted to him. 52 (2) Includes 38,498 ordinary shares held by Mr. Shafran. Also includes options held by Mr. Shafran to purchase 48,500 ordinary shares. (3) Includes 149,487 ordinary shares held by Mr. Aduk. Also includes options held by Mr. Aduk to purchase 30,000 ordinary shares. (4) Includes 154,689 ordinary shares held by Mr. Itay. Also includes options held by Mr. Itay to purchase 35,000 ordinary shares. (5) Consists of options held by Mr. Tussia-Cohen to purchase 40,000 ordinary shares. (6) Consists of options held by Mr. Manor to purchase 78,500 ordinary shares. (7) Consists of options held by Mr. Akavia to purchase 65,000 ordinary shares. Share Option Plans The following is a description of the share option plans that we and our subsidiaries maintain. In addition to the discussion below, please see Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. Under Israeli law, except for issuances of options to directors, or members of their families, adoption of share option plans and revisions to these plans are not subject to shareholder approval. Under Nasdaq rules, however, absent an exemption, most new share option plans and material revisions are subject to shareholders approval. 2006 Alternative Option Exercise Mechanism On April 11, 2006, we offered to each of its and its subsidiaries’ employees, and its directors and office holders (other than “External Directors”, as such term is defined in the Israeli Companies Law of 1999) who held outstanding vested and unvested options to purchase an aggregate of 4,485,017 of its ordinary shares, which were issued pursuant to the terms of the our 2001 Share Option Plan, as amended, to replace all of his or her outstanding vested and unvested options into a new number of ordinary shares, with the same fair values, as determined using the Black-Scholes pricing model, and the same vesting schedules . Our Board of Directors approved the Alternative Option Exercise Mechanism (“AOEM”), on February 12, 2006. Further, our shareholders approved the AOEM at an extraordinary meeting of the shareholders on March 21, 2006. As a result of the AOEM, we issued a total of 2,437,075 ordinary shares in exchange for options to acquire a total of 3,737,369 ordinary shares. A holder of options who did not participate in the AOEM, the original terms of his or her option agreement and the Share Option Plan continue to apply and such options are exercisable in accordance with their terms. In accordance with SFAS 123 (R) we consider the AOEM as a short-term inducement. Since the fair market value of the Company’s ordinary shares newly issued to each employee equals the fair value of the options replaced from him/her, no incremental compensation cost was recognized pursuant to the AOEM. 2001 Share Option Plan We established our 2001 Share Option Plan in February 2001. The plan provides for the grant of options to our employees, directors and consultants, and those of our subsidiaries and affiliates. Upon establishment of the plan, we reserved 75,000 ordinary shares for issuance. On February 26, 2002, on July 12, 2002, on March 28, 2003, on July 16, 2003, on September 2, 2003, on November 17, 2003, on April 20, 2004, on March 25, 2005, and on September 25, 2005, our board of directors adopted certain resolutions with regard to the 2001 Share Option Plan that increased the number of available options under the plan by a total of 9,675,000 so that the aggregate number of options available under the plan is now 9,750,000. Currently, in accordance with Israeli law, increasing the shares pool in an option plan does not require shareholders’ approval. Under this plan, as of June 20, 2007, 4,040,303 options had been exercised and 1,919,528 are outstanding and exercisable. Of the options that are outstanding, as of June 20, 2007, 297,000 are held by our directors and officers listed above under “Item 6.A Directors and Senior Management,” and have a weighted average exercise price of $6.22. 53 On February 26, 2002, our board of directors resolved to approve a grant by which, inter alia, we may pay, during a 12-month period, the salaries of certain of its employees who agree to participate in the grant, by way of grant of options. All such options are to be held by a trustee, for the benefit of each such employee. At the direction of and in accordance with instructions given by an employee who has received options, the trustee shall exercise such options and sell the shares issued upon such exercise. The proceeds mentioned above will be released on a monthly basis by the trustee (net of deductions required by law) to the maximum extent necessary for payment of such monthly salary to such employee. We undertook to pay from our own sources any and all differences between the relevant monthly salary and such proceeds. On March 28, 2003, our board of directors approved the extension of the arrangement for an additional period of six months commencing May 2003 and on October 28, 2003 our board of directors approved the extension of the arrangement for the employees of InterCard Systemelectronic for the period commencing November 2003 and ending July 2004. On August 26, 2004, our board of directors approved the extension of the arrangement for an additional period of six months commencing July 2004 and on November 26, 2004 our board of directors approved the extension of the arrangement for an additional period of twelve months commencing January 2005. The principal purpose of this arrangement is to enable us to use our available cash for other proper corporate purposes, including payment of sales expenses and research and development costs. Our 2001 Share Option Plan is administered by our compensation committee which makes recommendations to our board of directors regarding the grantees of options and the terms of the grant, including exercise prices, grant dates, vesting schedules, acceleration of vesting and forfeiture. Under the Companies Law the allocation of options is solely within the authority of our board of directors. Under the plan, the terms and conditions of options are set forth in individual option agreements with the grantee. Under the plan, if the employment of a grantee is terminated for cause, all of his or her options expire immediately. A grantee whose employment is terminated without cause may exercise his or her vested options within three months of termination. If the termination is due to the death or disability of the grantee, the options may be exercised within 18 months of the date of termination in the case of death and 12 months in the case of disability. In accordance with the terms and conditions imposed by Section 102 of the Israel Income Tax Ordinance, or the Ordinance, grantees subject to taxation by the State of Israel that receive options under the 2001 Share Option Plan (excluding grantees who previously received options that were incorporated upon the commencement of Amendment No. 132 of the Income Tax ordinance, or the Tax Reform, that was approved on July 24, 2002 and became effective on January 1, 2003, and those who are not employees or office holders and those who are our controlling shareholders) are afforded certain tax benefits. We elected the benefits available under the “capital gains” alternative. There are various conditions that must be met in order to qualify for these benefits, including registration of the options in the name of a trustee, or the Trustee, for each of the Israeli employees who is granted options. Each such option, and any ordinary shares acquired upon the exercise of such option, must be held by the Trustee for a period commencing on the date of grant and ending no earlier than 24 months after the end of the tax year in which the option was granted and deposited in trust with the Trustee. In the capital gains alternative a company may not recognize expenses pertaining to the options for tax purposes. We also granted our Israeli employees options pursuant to Section 102(c) of the Ordinance that are not held in trust by a trustee, which while enabling the immediate exercising and selling of options granted under the 2001 Share Option Plan, will be subject to the marginal tax rate up to 50% plus payments to the National Insurance Institute and health tax on the date of the sale of the shares or options. As of January 1, 2003, Section 3(i) of the Ordinance was partially replaced by Section 102(c) and no longer applies to allocations of options to Israeli employees (including directors and office holders). Section 3(i) still applies and imposes taxes on individuals and entities subject to taxation in Israel who are not employees (such as consultants and service providers) and to employees who are considered “controlling shareholders.” 1995 Share Option Plan 1995 Share Option Plan in December 1995. The plan provides for the grant of options to our employees. Our 1995 Share Option Plan has been superseded by our 2001 Share Option Plan and we have ceased to grant options under our 1995 Share Option Plan. On July 12, 2002 our board of directors adopted certain resolutions with regard to the 1995 Share Option Plan that increased the number of available options under the plan by 30,300 so that the aggregate number of options available under this plan is 130,300. Under this plan, 79,007 options to purchase shares had been exercised and none of the options are outstanding. 54 Generally, options issued under the plan vest over a period of three to five years in equal annual installments commencing immediately following the grant date. Under the plan, if the employment of a grantee is terminated for cause, all of his or her options expire immediately. Generally, a grantee whose employment is terminated without cause after a trial period of no less than six months may exercise his or her vested options. If the termination is due to the death of the grantee, the options may be exercised within twelve months of the date of termination. In the event of disability or retirement of the grantee, the compensation committee determines the treatment of options held by the grantee. Our 1995 Share Option Plan is subject to the same provisions of the Israeli Income Tax Ordinance as our 2001 Share Option Plan 2001 Employee Share Purchase Plan In June 2001, we approved the establishment of an employee share purchase plan. No shares have been issued under the plan. Under the plan, we have reserved 67,500 ordinary shares for purchase by our employees and those of our subsidiaries who have been employed for at least six months. Eligible employees may purchase our ordinary shares at 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of our ordinary shares of the first day of the applicable offering period or the first day of the applicable offering period. ITEM 7. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS A. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS The following table provides summary information regarding the beneficial ownership by the following persons of our outstanding ordinary shares as of June 20, 2007, or another date, if so provided: — each person or entity known to beneficially own more than 5% of our ordinary shares; — all of our executive officers and directors as a group. Beneficial ownership of shares is determined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and generally includes any shares over which a person exercises sole or shared voting or investment power. To our knowledge and except as indicated by footnote, each person identified in the table below possesses sole voting and investment power with respect to all ordinary shares held by them. The table also includes the number of shares underlying options and warrants that are exercisable within 60 days of June 20, 2007 Ordinary shares subject to these options and warrants are deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of computing the ownership percentage of the person holding these options and warrants, but are not deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of computing the ownership percentage of any other person. The table reflects a total of 19,238,938 ordinary shares outstanding as of June 20, 2007. Unless otherwise indicated below, the address of each director, executive officer or listed shareholder is care of On Track Innovations Ltd., Z.H.R. Industrial Zone, P.O. Box 32, Rosh Pina, Israel 12000. Shares beneficially owned Name of beneficial owner Number Percent Oded Bashan (1) 5,297,315 27.5 % All executive officers and directors as a group 6,293,075 32.7 % Palo Alto Investors (2) 2,530,408 13.15 % SuperCom Ltd. (3) 2,827,200 14.7 % 55 (1) Includes 677,803 ordinary shares held by Mr. Bashan. Also includes 7,462 ordinary shares held by Mr. Bashan’s wife. Mr. Bashan disclaims beneficial ownership of the share held by his wife. Also includes 4,612,050 ordinary shares as to which Mr. Bashan has voting power pursuant to irrevocable proxy granted to him. (2) This information is as of December 31, 2006 and is based solely on a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 14, 2007 by Palo Alto Investors. Based on the information provided in such Schedule 13G, the relevant members of the filing group are: Palo Alto Investors, LLC, Palo Alto Investors, William Leland Edwards, Micro Cap Partners, L.P. and Palo Alto Global Energy Fund, L.P. and the address of such entities is: 470 University Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94301. Based solely upon the information in such Schedule 13G, the named entites and individuals have shared voting and dispositive power over 2,530,408 shares, 2,530,408 shares, 2,530,408 shares, 1,404,960 shares and 0 shares, respectively. (3) This information is as of December 31, 2006 and is based solely on a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on January 29, 2007, by SuperCom Ltd. Based on the information provided in such Schedule 13G, the address of SuperCom Ltd. is: Sagid House “Hasharon Industrial Park” P.O.B 5039 Qadima 60920 Israel. SuperCom reports shared voting power over 2,827,200 shares. Significant Changes in the Ownership of Major Shareholders. On November 1, 2005 we completed an approximately $22.2 million private placement, or the Private Placement, of new equity financing with institutional investors from the US, Switzerland and England. The transaction involved the sale of 1,828,026 units, of which (i) 1,544,568 consist of one ordinary share and a warrant to purchase three-fifths (3/5) of an ordinary share and (ii) 283,458 consist of one ordinary share and a warrant to purchase one-half (1/2) of an ordinary share. The purchase price for each of the 1,828,026 units was $12.15 per unit, which equaled the average closing price of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Market during the last five trading days before pricing. The 1,196,431 warrants, which are exercisable since May 1, 2006, are for the purchase of an aggregate of up to 1,068,470 ordinary shares, they have terms of five years and an exercise price of $14.58 per share, and may be redeemed by OTI after two years if the market price of the underlying ordinary shares reaches $26.25 and certain other conditions are met. On December 31, 2006, pursuant to an asset purchase agreement dated as of November 7, 2006 between the Company and SuperCom Ltd., an Israeli corporation (“SuperCom”), we completed the acquisition of the main assets of SuperCom, including the International Project Solution (“IPS”) division of SuperCom. The acquisition provides us with accesses to new growing markets and complementary security technologies that safeguard against counterfeit and forgery. The aggregate purchase price for the acquisition was paid through the issuance of an aggregate of 2,827,200 of our ordinary shares. The 2,827,200 ordinary shares issued to SuperCom are subject to a lock-up agreement, where one-seventh of the shares (403,885 ordinary shares) will be released from the lock-up restrictions every three months beginning on the closing date, i.e., December 31, 2006, for an aggregate period of eighteen months. SuperCom executed an irrevocable proxy appointing the our Chairman, on behalf of the Board of Directors, or a person the Board of Directors will instruct, to vote the 2,827,200 ordinary shares issued to SuperCom in connection with the transaction. Major Shareholders Voting Rights Our major shareholders do not have different voting rights. Record Holders Based on a review of the information provided to us by our transfer agent, as of June 20, 2007, there were 109 holders of record of our ordinary shares, of which 19 record holders holding approximately 2% of our ordinary shares had registered addresses in the United States. These numbers are not representative of the number of beneficial holders of our shares nor is it representative of where such beneficial holders reside since many of these ordinary shares were held of record by brokers or other nominees (including one U.S. nominee company, CEDE & Co., which held approximately 67% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of said date). 56 B. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Our policy is to enter into transactions with related parties on terms that are on the whole no less favorable to us than those that would be available from unaffiliated parties. Based on our experience in the business sectors in which we operate and the terms of our transactions with unaffiliated third parties, we believe that all of the transactions described below met this policy standard at the time they occurred. Agreement with HolyTech Ltd. In January 1996, we entered into an agreement with HolyTech Ltd., a company owned by Varda Bashan, Ora Gilboa and certain other of our shareholders, which formalized an arrangement that had existed since 1992. Varda Bashan is the spouse of Oded Bashan, our co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, and Ora Gilboa is the spouse of Ronnie Gilboa, our co-founder and a director. Under the agreement, HolyTech provides us with management and engineering services as needed. Mrs. Bashan provides administration services, Mrs. Gilboa provides sales operation services and a number of other shareholders of HolyTech, who are also our employees, provide engineering and warehouse services. HolyTech has no activities other than the provision of these services to us. The cost of these services is intended to equal the cost of these services if performed by unrelated parties. The aggregate consideration for the services that HolyTech provided to us was $44,000 in 2004, $45,000 in 2005 and $68,000 in 2006. On August 25, 2000, our audit committee reviewed and reapproved the terms of this agreement. Agreements with Directors and Officers We have entered into employment agreements with all of our officers. In addition, we have granted options to purchase our ordinary shares to our officers and directors. On January 31, 2003 the shareholders of OTI approved a bonus plan for our senior management and on July 11, 2003 our general meeting of shareholders approved a plan to issue options to our non-executive directors. Agreement Relating to Insurance Services We have been receiving insurance agency services from a family member of one of our officers. On August 22, 2003, our board of directors ratified and approved such engagement in accordance with the applicable Israeli Companies Law provisions. C. INTERESTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL Not applicable. ITEM 8. FINANCIAL INFORMATION A. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION The financial statements required by this item are found in Item 18 of this annual report, beginning on page F-1. Legal Proceedings We are currently not a party to any material legal proceedings and are not aware of any pending or threatened litigation against us that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business and the business of our subsidiaries taken as a whole. During the last two fiscal years, we have not been a party to any legal proceedings that have had a material adverse effect on our business and the business of our subsidiaries taken as a whole. On September 3, 2003, Edi Wuhl, a former employee of the Company, filed a suit against the Company to the District Labor Court in Nazareth in the amount of NIS 3,953 (approximately $900). The suit is based on Mr. Wuhl’s claims that the Company has breached the employment agreement with him, and that the Company owes him commission payment for certain sales. On December 17, 2003, the Company filed a statement of defense. During 2006 the proof hiring took place. The Company should file its closing arguments. In the opinion of the Company, based on advice of its legal advisor, the plaintiff’s chances of prevailing against the Company are remote. No provision in respect thereof has been included in the financial statements. 57 Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares or other securities. We currently expect to retain all future earnings, if any, to finance the development of our business, and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made by our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and future prospects and other factors the board of directors may deem relevant. In the event of a distribution of a cash dividend out of tax exempt income, we will be liable for corporate tax at a rate of 25% in respect of the amount distributed. B. SIGNIFICANT CHANGES Except as otherwise disclosed in this annual report, no significant change has occurred since December 31, 2006. ITEM 9. THE OFFER AND LISTING A. OFFER AND LISTING DETAILS Our ordinary shares were quoted on the Neuer Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange since August 31, 1999 until January 31, 2003. Since January 31, 2003, the shares have been listed on the new Prime Standard Segment of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. Following the approval of our General shareholders’ meeting, our Board of Directors applied for the delisting of our shares from the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, which has been approved. The last day of trading of our ordinary shares on Frankfurt Stock Exchange was December 20, 2005. Our shares were quoted on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market from November 12, 2002 until December 20, 2004. On December 16, 2004, we were approved for listing on the NASDAQ Global Marker, then known as the NASDAQ National Market, and our shares commenced trading on NASDAQ Global Market on December 20, 2004. The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the high and low closing prices of our ordinary shares in Euros giving effect to the reverse split as reported on the Neuer Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The closing prices that are indicated below commencing January 31, 2003 were as reported in the Prime Standard Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. It also shows, for the periods indicated, the high and low closing prices of our ordinary shares expressed in U.S. dollars based on the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers in foreign currencies, as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the relevant dates. See the discussion below for the exchange rates applicable during the periods set forth below. The following table also shows, for the periods indicated since November 2002 until December 2004, the high and low closing prices of our ordinary shares in U.S. dollars as reported on NASDAQ SmallCap, and for the periods indicated since December 2004, the high and low closing prices of our ordinary shares in U.S. dollars as reported on NASDAQ Global Market. 58 Frankfurt Stock Exchange (1)(3) per Share € Frankfurt Stock Exchange (1)(3) per Share $ Nasdaq Global Market (2) per Share $ High Low High Low High Low Year 2002 14.5 3.5 12.8 3.5 8.10 4.65 2003 9.7 3.0 12.1 3.2 13.80 3.20 2004 11.5 5.3 14.5 6.5 14.74 6.46 2005 13.0 8 16.1 10.4 13.80 10.3 2006 -- -- -- -- 17.23 6.16 2005 First quarter 11.0 8.0 14.6 10.5 14.64 10.30 Second quarter 11.5 8.4 14.9 10.4 15.35 10.95 Third quarter 13.0 9.1 16.1 11.1 15.27 11.15 Fourth quarter 11.5 9.6 13.6 11.4 13.80 11.62 2006 First quarter -- -- -- -- 17.23 12.55 Second quarter -- -- -- -- 13.55 9.01 Third quarter -- -- -- -- 11.78 7.23 Fourth quarter -- -- -- -- 7.91 6.16 2007 First quarter -- -- -- -- 7.36 6.05 Month November 2006 11.5 10.3 13.5 12.1 7.38 6.16 December 2006 11.3 10.4 13.4 12.3 6.91 6.42 January 2007 -- -- -- -- 7.29 6.17 February 2007 -- -- -- -- 6.93 6.05 March 2007 -- -- -- -- 7.36 6.47 April 2007 -- -- -- -- 8.43 6.85 May 2007 -- -- -- -- 8.15 7.2 (1) Our ordinary shares were quoted on the Neuer Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange from August 31, 1999 until January 31, 2003, after which, until December 20, 2005, the shares were listed on the new Prime Standard Segment of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. To the extent required, shares prices are adjusted to give effect to our 10-for-1 reverse share split effective as of June 17, 2002. (2) Our ordinary shares were quoted on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market from November 12, 2002 until December 20, 2004. On December 16, 2004, we were approved for listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, and our ordinary shares commenced trading on the Global Market on December 20, 2004. (3) Until December 20, 2005 B. PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION Not applicable. C. MARKETS Our ordinary shares are traded publicly on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “OTIV” since December 20, 2004, and were traded on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market from November 12, 2002 until December 20, 2004. Until December 20, 2005, our ordinary shares were traded publicly on the Prime Standard Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol “OT5.” D. SELLING SHAREHOLDERS Not applicable. E. DILUTION Not applicable. F. EXPENSES OF THE ISSUE Not applicable. 59 ITEM 10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION A. SHARE CAPITAL Not applicable. B. MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel on February 15, 1990, under the name of De-Bug Innovations Ltd., with unlimited duration. We are registered with the Israeli registrar of companies in Jerusalem. Our founders were Oded Bashan and Ronnie Gilboa and our registration number is 52-004286-2. Our name was changed to On Track Innovations on July 8, 1991. Our objectives under our memorandum of association are to engage in any activity related to innovation and inventions in the fields of science and technology. The following is a summary of the material provisions of our Articles of Association and related provisions of Israeli corporate law. This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Articles of Association; see “Item 