RISK FACTORS The market for data capture systems and automatic form processing systems is highly competitive. The market for data capture systems in general, and for automatic form processing systems in particular, is characterized by intense competition, significant price erosion over the life of the product, and rapidly changing business conditions, customer requirements, and technology. Our products compete with those developed and marketed by numerous well-established companies including EMC (Captiva Software), Mitek, Banctec, Kofax (Formerly : Dicom Group), Datacap, and ReadSoft, as well as with manual data entry systems. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial resources than we do. Furthermore, certain of these competitors are industry leaders with the financial resources necessary to enable them to withstand substantial price competition or downturns in the market for computer software. The fact that our resources are more limited places us at a significant disadvantage. This risk is particularly acute during difficult economic times. A slowdown in our customers’ industries could adversely impact the sale of our products and our prospects of achieving or maintaining profitability. A slowdown in the industries to which we sell our products would likely result in significantly reduced product demand, erosion of selling prices and overcapacity. Such a downturn could materially reduce demand for the products and technology that we offer. In addition, our ability to reduce expenses in response to any downturn or slowdown in such industries may be limited because of: — our continuing need to invest in research and development; — our capital equipment requirements; and - 2 - — marketing requirements. Our success depends on our strategic marketing relationships and the marketing and distribution efforts of our distributors and other strategic partners. Our business and prospects depend upon our ability to maintain our existing, and to develop additional, strategic marketing relationships and upon the marketing and distribution efforts of our distributors and other strategic partners. The loss or diminishment of our relationship with any one of our significant strategic partners could have a material and adverse effect on our existing operations and growth prospects. We intend to recruit additional distributors with established distribution channels and reputations for marketing and installing document imaging, data capture and workflow systems to market our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop such relationships. Our industry is marked by rapid technological changes and frequent new or updated product introductions, and if we do not respond to such rapid technological changes, new product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards, our products and services could become obsolete. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability to offer state-of-the-art products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our product decisions must anticipate the changing demand for products. If we are unable to develop, modify and enhance our existing technology to respond to such changing demands, standards and customer demands, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, the development of new technologies, new product introductions or enhancements by our competitors could adversely affect our sales. We have had a history of losses and may incur future losses. Since our inception in March 1991, we have incurred net losses in every year other than in 1995, 1997, 1998 and 2006, and our losses may continue. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $20,987,000. We plan to maintain the level of our aggregate product development expenses and may significantly increase our sales and marketing and administrative expenses in the near future. Accordingly, to maintain our current level of financial performance, we will need to increase or maintain our revenues. We cannot assure you that our revenues will grow or that we will achieve positive profitability in the future. Failure to increase revenues could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial results. We have a history of quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations and expect these fluctuations to continue. This may cause our stock price to decline. We have experienced and expect to experience in the future significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. Our lengthy sales cycle increases our exposure to customer cancellations or delays in orders, which may result in volatile quarterly revenues. Given the high average selling price of, and the cost and time required to implement, our solutions, a customer’s decision to license our products typically involves a significant commitment of resources and is influenced by the customer’s budget cycles and internal approval procedures for information technology purchases. In addition, selling our solutions requires us to educate potential customers about our solutions’ uses and benefits. As a result, our solutions have a long sales cycle, which can take 9 to 12 months or more. Consequently, we have difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers may occur. The sale of our solutions is also subject to delays from the lengthy budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes of our customers, which typically accompany significant capital expenditures. Other factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations include: — the size, timing and shipment of orders; — customer deferral of orders in anticipation of new products, product upgrades or price enhancements; - 3 - — the high level of competition that we encounter; and — the timing of our product introductions, upgrades or enhancements or those of our competitors or of providers of complementary products. Fluctuations in our quarterly results could discourage investors and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Large customers constitute a significant portion of our orders. Sales to large customers have historically accounted for a significant part of our sales. For example, a sale to CSC Australia Pty. Ltd. accounted for 10% of our sales in 2005, and sales to Swiss Post–Finance accounted for 10% of our sales in 2004. In 2006 and 2007, we had no customer who accounted for more than 10% of our sales. If we are unable in the future to complete sales to large customers, our business, prospects and financial results could be adversely affected. Our success depends on our key personnel. Our success depends upon the contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel. All of our key management and technical personnel have expertise, which is in high demand among our competitors, and the loss of any of these individuals could cause our business to suffer. We do not as a general matter maintain key person life insurance policies on our officers, directors and key employees. Our solutions require a sophisticated sales effort targeted at senior management of our prospective customers. New employees in our sales department require extensive training and typically take several months to achieve full productivity. There is no assurance that new sales representatives will ultimately become productive. If we were to lose qualified and productive sales personnel, our revenues could be adversely impacted. Our success depends on our proprietary software technology. Our success depends upon our proprietary software technology. Although we believe that our technology has been developed independently and does not infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we cannot assure you that the technology does not and will not infringe or that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. In the case of infringement, we would, under certain circumstances, be required to modify our products or obtain a license. We cannot assure you that we would be able to do either in a timely manner under acceptable terms and conditions or at all, or that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to defend successfully a patent infringement or other proprietary rights infringement action. Further, even if we were not infringing, intellectual property litigation is expensive and time consuming for management. Failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, if our products or technologies are deemed to infringe upon the rights of others, or if infringement claims are asserted against third parties whom we are obligated to indemnify, we could become liable for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on us. ReadSoft, one of our competitors, filed a patent application entitled “Method and Arrangement for Automatic Data Acquisition of Forms.” The patent was granted on August 13, 2003 (EP 0976092). Although the patent was not enforced against us, we became aware of the patent and, in May 2004, filed a Notice of Opposition with the European Patent Office requesting that the patent be revoked in its entirety. After a number of written exchanges, the dispute was heard on March 8, 2007 in a proceeding at the European Patent Office in Germany. At the end of the oral proceeding, Readsoft’s patent was revoked in its entirety. Readsoft has appealed this decision and has petitioned for the patent to be reinstated. Although we do not believe that any of our products would infringe upon this patent, if ReadSoft were to prevail on its appeal, and it subsequently was decided that we infringed the patent, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial condition. - 4 - NMS Imaging Inc., a company headquartered in Maryland (“NMS”) filed a trademark application for the registration of the name “eFlow” which has been used by the Company for approximately 7 years, for a product similar to the Company’s products on June 8, 2007. Although the trademark was not enforced against us, we became aware of the application and, in the course of August, 2007, filed a trademark application in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, for the registration of the name “EFLOW” “for use in connection with computer software applications namely software applications that processes and integrates data from various sources and or of different types”. In such application TIS claims to have been using the mark in commerce since 1999 in the United States. Concurrently, the Company has filed trademark applications for the names Top Image Systems and TIS. If NMS’s trademark shall be registered and such trademark will be enforced against us, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial condition. We license components of our software systems and technology from third parties in reliance on such parties’ representations as to ownership of the licensed intellectual property. If our licensors are found not to own or have rights to sublicense such rights to us and we are unable to replace the licensed technology with a comparable substitute, there could be a material adverse effect on our business prospects and financial results. Even if we were to replace licensed technology with available alternatives, it could take time to identify the best replacement and integrate it into our software. The delay and uncertainly could negatively impact our financial results. Yehezkel Yeshurun, our former Chief Scientist, and currently a member of our board of directors, was, at the time of his employment with us, a Professor of the Tel Aviv University Computer Science Department (“the University”) where he conducted research in the areas of computer vision, neural computation and robotics. While the University consented to Prof. Yeshurun’s employment by us and has not asserted any claim that intellectual property developed by Prof. Yeshurun on our behalf belongs to the University, the University has not acknowledged our rights to any intellectual property developed by Prof. Yeshurun. We cannot assure you that the University will not assert a claim for such intellectual property rights in the future or that the University does not have any rights to such intellectual property. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our competitive position and, consequently, our business and operations. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely upon trade secret protection, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our confidential and proprietary information. Despite these efforts, we cannot be certain that others will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or copy and use information that we regard as proprietary without our authorization. We have not obtained any patents and we cannot assure you that we will obtain any patents. In addition, we cannot assure you that: — any patents which we may obtain will be broad enough to protect our technology, will provide us with competitive advantages or will escape challenge or invalidation by third parties; or — others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or, if patents are issued to us, design around these patents. Further, the laws of foreign jurisdictions where we sell and seek to sell our products may afford little or no protection of our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the protection provided to our intellectual property rights by the laws and courts of foreign nations will be substantially similar to the remedies available under U.S. law. If we are unable to build awareness of our brands, we may not be able to compete effectively against competitors with greater name recognition and our sales could be adversely affected. If we are unable to economically achieve and maintain a leading position in data recognition software or to promote and maintain our brands, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. Development and awareness of our brands will depend largely on our success in increasing our customer base. In order to attract and retain customers and to promote and maintain our brands in response to competitive pressures, we may be required to increase our marketing and advertising budget or increase our other sales expenses. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be sufficient or that we will be successful in attracting and retaining customers or promoting our brands. Failure in this regard could harm our business and results of operations. - 5 - Our products may contain defects, damaging our reputation, causing a loss of customers, requiring us to allocate significant time and financial resources to correct, and potentially resulting in liability claims. Our products may contain undetected errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In the past, we have discovered minor software bugs in certain products after they were released to the market. Such errors or defects could require us to divert financial and other resources to correct the problems. In addition, our products are combined with complex products developed by other vendors. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source or sources of the problems. Defects and errors, or end-user perception of defects and errors, found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of these products after commencement of commercial shipments may result in: — damage to brand reputation; — loss of customers; — delay in market acceptance of current and future products; — diversion of development and engineering resources to correct defects or errors; and — warranty or product liability claims. Defects, errors or successful product liability claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial results. For addition information on our warranty policy, see the subsection below entitled “Warranty and service.” We engage in international sales, which expose us to a number of foreign political and economic risks. We engage in international sales, which are subject to a number of risks that could seriously impede our financial condition and growth. As a result of our product sales in various geographic regions, which we may expand in the future to new geographic regions, we are subject to the risks associated with international sales, including license requirements, economic and political instability, terrorism, shipping delays, customs duties, export quotas and other trade restrictions, any of which could have a significant impact on our ability to deliver products on a competitive and timely basis and exacerbate the risks inherent in our business. Our capital requirements have historically been significant and we may not in the future be able to meet our requirements with our working capital. Historically, our capital requirements have been significant. We may in the future require additional financing to fund our operations and capital requirements beyond our current resources and that provided from our operations. In such event, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us when needed, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We have no expectation that our existing shareholders will provide any portion of our future financing requirements. Any inability to obtain additional financing when needed would have a material adverse effect on us, requiring us to curtail our expansion efforts. In addition, to the extent that we incur substantial indebtedness, we will be subject to risks associated with incurring substantial indebtedness, including the risk that interest rates may fluctuate, and cash may be insufficient to repay interest and principal on any such indebtedness. Any additional equity financing may involve substantial dilution of the interests of our then-existing shareholders. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel may adversely affect our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products. Because our principal offices are located in Israel, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. There has been a marked increase in such hostility and a significant deterioration of Israel’s relationship with the Palestinian community since October 2000, and especially since Hamas, an Islamic movement responsible for many attacks against Israelis, has led government of the Palestinian Authority. Continuing or escalating hostilities in the region or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners may have an adverse effect on our business conditions, including our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products. - 6 - Our operations may be disrupted by the obligation of key personnel to perform military service. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually. Moreover, in light of the varying levels of hostilities and threats of armed conflict which have marked the Middle East since October 2000, our executive officers and employees may be called for active military duty for an unlimited period of time. Increased military activity could also result in a reduction of prospective qualified employees available to work for us to increase our business or replace employees on active military duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of our executive officers or key employees as a result of military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our ability to develop and market products. We may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We maintain operations and generate revenues in a number of countries. The results of operations and the financial position of our local operations are generally reported in the relevant local currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, exposing us to currency translation risk. In addition, we are exposed to currency transaction risk because some of our expenses are incurred in a different currency from the currency in which our revenues are received. Our most significant currency exposures are to the Euro, New Israeli Shekel, UK Pound, Singapore dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Chinese Yuan, Australian dollars and Japanese yen. In periods when the U.S. dollar strengthens against these other currencies, our reported results of operations may be adversely affected. Although from time to time we may purchase forward exchange contracts to reduce currency transaction risk, these purchases will not eliminate translation risk or all currency risk. In addition, our convertible debentures issued in December 2006 are payable in New Israeli Shekels. Since the date of issuance of the debentures, the U.S. dollar has fallen against the NIS. If this decrease remains while the debentures are payable, we will need to use more U.S. dollars to make the payments. We may not be able to expand our personnel or marketing efforts quickly enough to support our growth. Because of our small size and our business strategy to increase our sales, we anticipate an increased demand on all of our resources. If we do not accurately estimate our need for personnel or marketing and customer support, we may not be able to support our future growth. For example, if we are successful in our efforts to obtain significant orders for our products, we may be required to install and service, on a timely basis, large numbers of installations at our customers’ locations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to provide such services on adequate terms and conditions or at all. Furthermore, in order to remain competitive and keep our products up to date, we need to continue to attract and retain a qualified team of employees. If we fail to obtain the human resources our business requires, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, and financial results. Our expansion through acquisitions, including our recent purchases of Capture Projects Ltd. ("CPL") and Asiasoft Global Pte. Ltd., ("AsiaSoft") could lead to increased expenditures and integration costs, and could strain management, financial, and operational resources. We may pursue the acquisition of related businesses or complementary businesses, including individual products or technologies, in an effort to expand capacity, enter new markets and diversify our sources of revenue. In December 2006, we raised net proceeds of $13,505,000 through the issuance of convertible debentures. In 2007, we used some of these proceeds to acquire CPL, a provider of document management solutions in the United Kingdom, and to acquire a 51% holding (and an option over the remaining 49% holding) in Asiasoft, a holding company of a group of subsidiaries and affiliated companies in China, Hong-Kong and Singapore, which are each information technology solutions providers. We may also pursue additional acquisition opportunities. Acquisitions and expansions may require significant additional expenditures, including integration and absorption costs, before we are able to obtain any benefits of integration resulting from them. These expenditures may strain management, financial and operational resources. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurring of additional debt, the assumption of known and unknown liabilities, the amortization of expenses related to intangible assets and the impairment of goodwill, all of which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Acquisitions in foreign countries may pose additional problems, and we could experience inefficiencies in conducting our business as we integrate new operations and manage geographically dispersed operations. - 7 - Additionally, we may not succeed in retaining or hiring qualified management, sales, customer support, and technical personnel to integrate acquired operations, manage future growth effectively, and accomplish our overall objectives. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we expand too fast, or fail to integrate our recently acquired businesses or other new businesses, or lose key personnel from our recently acquired businesses or other businesses, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial condition. Some of our operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects will be subject, to some degree, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. Since 1978, China has been one of the world’s fastest-growing economies in terms of gross domestic product (GDP) growth. We cannot assure you, however, that such growth will be sustained in the future. If in the future China’s economy experiences a downturn or grows at a slower rate than expected, there may be less demand for spending in certain industries. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. We cannot assure you that China’s economic, political or legal systems will not develop in a way that becomes detrimental to our business, prospects, financial conditions and results of operations. Government grants we received for research and development expenditures may be reduced or eliminated in the future due to Israeli government budget cuts. Furthermore, our receipt of such grants limits our ability to develop products and transfer technologies outside of Israel, and require us to satisfy specified conditions. In the past, we have received grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, or the OCS, under the Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984 for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. The Israeli government has reduced the benefits available under this program in recent years and may decide not to continue the program in the future at its current level or to terminate it altogether. The terms of the OCS grants limit our ability to develop products and transfer technologies outside of Israel without the prior approval of the OCS, if such products or technologies were developed using OCS grants. Such approval, if granted, will generally be subject to additional financial obligations. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the OCS, including the payment of royalties with respect to grants received, we may be required to refund any payments previously received from the OCS, together with interest and penalties. See also “Governmental Regulation” in Item 4 herein. If we fail to satisfy the condition specified by our “Approved Enterprise” program, we may be denied benefits to which we are currently entitled to in the future. The Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry and Trade has granted us “Approved Enterprise” status to certain development programs under The Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, or the Investment Law. The benefits available to an Approved Enterprise program are dependent upon the continuing fulfillment of ongoing conditions stipulated under applicable law and in the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, benefits from tax exemptions or reduced tax rates would likely be denied us in the future. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the Investment Law came into effect (the “Amendment”) that significantly changed the provisions of the Investment Law. The Amendment limits the scope of enterprises which may be approved by the Investment Center by setting criteria for the approval of a facility as an Approved Enterprise, such as provisions generally requiring that at least 25% of the Approved Enterprise’s income will be derived from export. Additionally, the Amendment enacted major changes in the manner in which tax benefits are awarded under the Investment Law so that companies no longer require Investment Center approval in order to qualify for tax benefits. However, the Investment Law provides that terms and benefits included in any certificate of approval already granted will remain subject to the provisions of the law as they were on the date of such approval. Therefore, our existing Approved Enterprise status will generally not be subject to the provisions of the Amendment. As a result of the amendment, tax-exempt income generated under the provisions of the new law will subject us to taxes upon distribution or liquidation and we may be required to record deferred tax liability with respect to such tax-exempt income. As of December 31, 2007, we did not generate income subject to the provisions of the new law. - 8 - Our ordinary shares have been subject to frequent significant price fluctuations. If we fail to maintain minimum bid requirements, we could be delisted. Our ordinary shares are quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market, and have been subject to frequent significant price fluctuations, due in part to speculative activity. In addition, trading in shares of companies listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market in general and trading in shares of technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market and industry factors may depress our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. In addition, if we issue additional shares in financings or acquisitions, our shareholders will experience additional dilution and the existence of more shares could decrease the amount that purchasers are willing to pay for our ordinary shares. We must continue to meet certain maintenance requirements, including minimum bid requirements, in order for such securities to continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our securities are delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, investors’ liquidity in our securities could be reduced. In addition, if our securities were to be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, our ordinary shares could be considered a “penny stock” under federal securities law. Additional regulatory requirements apply to trading by broker-dealers of penny stocks that could result in the loss of an effective trading market for our securities. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is effected in different currencies (US dollars on the NASDAQ Capital Market, and New Israeli Shekels on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange) and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ, resulting from the factors described above as well as differences in exchange rates and from political events and economic conditions in the United States and Israel. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance operations and to expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The application and/or amendment of Israeli laws or laws of other countries may adversely affect our ability to enforce judgments or other rights. Because our principal offices are located in Israel, we are subject to Israeli law. Many of our contracts with third parties are subject to the laws of other jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that any judgments granted in the United States or any jurisdiction other than Israel would be capable of enforcement or execution in Israel. Nor can we assure you that any of our contracts pursuant to the laws of any foreign country are enforceable by us. The inability to enforce or execute judgments or other rights and/or the possibility of the laws of various jurisdictions being amended from time to time may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, and financial condition. - 9 - We may not be able to make our debt payments in the future. In December 2006 through the issuance of convertible debentures, we raised net proceeds of $13,505,000. Our ability to meet our obligations under the convertible notes and our other debt obligations will depend on whether we can successfully implement our strategy, as well as on financial, competitive, and other factors, including some factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet principal and interest payments on our debt, we may have to refinance all or part of our indebtedness. In addition, cash flows from our operations may be insufficient to repay in full at maturity the convertible notes, in which case the convertible notes may need to be refinanced. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness, including the convertible notes, will depend on, among other things: — our financial condition at the time; — restrictions in agreements governing our debt; and — other factors, including market conditions We cannot ensure that any such refinancing would be possible on terms that we could accept or that we could obtain additional financing. If refinancing will not be possible or if additional financing will not be available, we may have to sell our assets under circumstances that might not yield the highest prices, or default on our debt obligations, including the convertible notes, which would permit our noteholders and holders of other outstanding indebtedness to accelerate their maturity dates. Our cash may be insufficient to fund our liquidity needs after the repurchase of the convertible debentures We recently announced that the Board of Directors has approved the payment of up to $2,500,000 (9,000,000 NIS) to repurchase outstanding Series A convertible debentures that the Company issued in December 2006 on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. These repurchases may be in open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions or a combination of the two. Because we will be using cash to repurchase this debt, we may be left with insufficient cash to fund our other liquidity needs. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations have increased with the issuance of the convertible notes, which may adversely affect our cash flow, cash position and share price. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from existing cash, investments and our operations. In the future, if we are unable to generate cash or raise additional cash financings sufficient to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund these obligations, we may have to delay or curtail research and development programs. Our indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, without limitation: — requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash flow to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including funding our research and development programs and other capital expenditures; — increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; — limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and — placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. - 10 - Conversion of the convertible notes would dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. The conversion of some or all of the convertible notes would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of our ordinary shares issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect the prevailing market prices of our ordinary shares. In addition, the existence of the convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the convertible notes could depress the price of our ordinary shares. Our restructuring of operations and other measures we take to reduce costs may not achieve the results we intend and may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In January 2008, we announced that we had restructured various aspects of our operations in an effort to achieve efficiency and competitive standing in the global market. As part of our restructuring, we reduced the size of our research and development staff. Our restructuring of operations and other cost reducing measures may not achieve the results we intend and may invoke restructuring and other costs and changes to our business that adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 