ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our Common Stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company's business operations. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS GENERALLY Our success depends to a very large degree on our relationship with and the success of our Hong Kong Joint Venture. During fiscal year 2006, 66.4% of our total inventory purchases were made from the Hong Kong Joint Venture. The products produced by the Hong Kong Joint Venture include smoke alarms and carbon monoxide alarms, and we are currently pursuing the development of additional products to be manufactured by the Hong Kong Joint Venture. Our purchases from the Hong Kong Joint Venture represented approximately 50% of the Hong Kong Joint Venture's total sales during fiscal 2006, with the balance of the Hong Kong Joint Venture's sales being primarily made in Europe and Australia to unrelated customers. If the Hong Kong Joint Venture does not maintain profitability, our profitability will be adversely affected. -5- In addition, adverse changes in our relationship with our Hong Kong Joint Venture partners would unfavorably affect the value of our investment in the Hong Kong Joint Venture and would have a material adverse effect on our ability to purchase products for distribution. Our reliance on the Hong Kong Joint Venture exposes us to uncertainties and risks from abroad which could negatively affect our operations and sales. Our relationship with the Hong Kong Joint Venture and our and the Hong Kong Joint Venture's sales in other countries expose us to particular risks. The following are among the risks that could negatively affect our imports and our and the Hong Kong Joint Venture's sales in foreign markets: o new restrictions on access to markets, o currency devaluation, o new tariffs, o adverse changes in monetary and/or tax policies, o inflation, and o governmental instability. Should any of these risks occur, the value of our investment in the Hong Kong Joint Venture could be reduced and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. The lack of availability of inventory could adversely affect our financial results. We source inventory primarily from our Hong Kong Joint Venture, which has manufacturing facilities in the People's Republic of China. Our purchases of inventory are subject to being affected by a number of factors, namely, production capacity, labor unrest and untimely deliveries. Changes in economic and political conditions in China or any other adversity to the Hong Kong Joint Venture will unfavorably affect the value of our investment in the Hong Kong Joint Venture and could have a material adverse effect on the our ability to purchase products for distribution. Our Hong Kong Joint Venture is subject to political and economic factors unique to China. The Chinese government has been reforming the Chinese economic system. In recent years, the government has also begun reforming the government structure. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress. Although the majority of the production assets in China are still state-owned, economic reform policies have emphasized autonomous enterprises and the utilization of market mechanisms. Our Hong Kong Joint Venture currently expects that the Chinese government will continue its reform by further reducing governmental intervention in business enterprises and allowing market mechanisms to allocate resources. Any adverse changes in political, economic or social conditions in China could have a material adverse effect on the Hong Kong Joint Venture's operations and our financial results, as well as our ability to purchase products manufactured by the Hong Kong Joint Venture. We are subject to risks in connection with the importation of our products from foreign countries. We import all of our products. As an importer, we are subject to numerous tariffs which vary depending on types of products and country of origin, changes in economic and political conditions in the country of manufacture, potential trade restrictions and currency fluctuations. We have attempted to protect ourselves from fluctuations in currency exchange rates to the extent possible by negotiating commitments in U.S. dollars. We are also subject to strikes or other labor unrest at points of origin and destination, as well as delays and restrictions which impact shipping and shipping routes. We rely on our key personnel and the loss of one or more of those personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance of our senior management team. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find qualified replacements for any of these individuals if their services were no longer available. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. -6- Our competition is both intense and varied and our failure to effectively compete could adversely affect our prospects. In fiscal year 2006, our sales of safety products accounted for virtually all of our sales. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and financial strength than we have. Some of our competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with us. While we believe that our safety products compete favorably with other such products in the market, primarily on the basis of styling, features, and pricing, the safety industry in general involves changing technology. The success of our products may depend on our ability to improve and update our products in a timely manner and to adapt to new technological advances. As a result of this competition, we could lose market share and suffer losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial performance. The security products marketplace is dynamic and challenging because of the introduction of new products and services. We must constantly introduce new products, services, and product features to meet competitive pressures. We may be unable to timely change our existing merchandise sales mix in order to meet these competitive pressures, which may result in increased inventory costs or loss of market share. Adverse changes in national or regional U.S. economic conditions could adversely affect our financial results. We market our products nationally to retailers, including wholesale distributors, chain, discount, and home center stores, catalog and mail order companies and to other distributors. Overall consumer confidence, consumer credit availability, recessionary trends, housing starts and prices, mortgage rates, and consumers' disposable income and spending levels directly impact our sales. Negative trends, whether national or regional in nature, in any of these economic conditions could adversely affect our financial results. Our products must meet specified quality and safety standards to enter and stay on the market. Our smoke and carbon monoxide alarms must meet U.S. and various international standards before they are sold. For example, in the United States, our products must be certified by Underwriters Laboratories (UL) and similar certifications must be obtained in each country where we compete for market share. If our manufacturers' products or manufacturing facilities (including those of the Hong Kong Joint Venture) fail to pass periodic inspections, the approval certificates for the relevant products may be suspended until corrections are made. Loss of UL or other independent certifications could have a material adverse affect on our sales and financial results. Our products expose us to the potential of product liability claims. We do not manufacture any of our own products. All of our products are manufactured by the Hong Kong Joint Venture or others. Nevertheless, we could be named as a defendant in an action arising from damages suffered as a result of one of our products. While we carry products liability insurance, to the extent we are found liable for damages for which we are uninsured, our profitability may be adversely affected. Any suit, even if not meritorious or if covered by an indemnification obligation, could result in the expenditure of a significant amount of our financial and managerial resources and could create significant negative publicity for us and our products. We may be unable to successfully execute our merchandising and marketing strategic initiatives. We are focusing our sales and marketing efforts and initiatives to maximize safety product sales, especially smoke alarms and carbon monoxide alarms manufactured by our Hong Kong Joint Venture and marketed to the electrical distribution and retail trade. If we fail to successfully execute these initiatives, our business could be adversely affected. We are and could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. We design most of our security products and contract with suppliers to manufacture those products and deliver them to us. We have been the subject of lawsuits by third parties which assert against us infringement claims or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. If such infringement by our suppliers or us were found to exist, we could be subject to monetary damages and an injunction preventing the use of their intellectual property. If one of our products were found to infringe, we may attempt to acquire a license or right to use such technology or intellectual property, which could result in higher manufacturing costs. Any infringement claim, even if not meritorious and/or covered by an indemnification obligation, could result in the expenditure of a significant amount of our financial and managerial resources. -7- If governmental regulations change or are applied differently, our business could suffer. The sales of our smoke and carbon monoxide alarms are impacted by local laws and regulations mandating the installation of these security devices in new and sometimes existing homes and buildings. Changes in these consumer safety regulations, both in the United States and abroad, could impact our business. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND OUR STOCK The liability of our directors is limited. Our Articles of Incorporation limit the liability of directors to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. It is unlikely that we will issue dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have not declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock in over 20 years and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. The exercise of outstanding options will dilute the percentage ownership of our stockholders, and any sales in the public market of shares of our common stock underlying such options may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. As of March 31, 2006, there are outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 242,496 shares of our common stock at per share exercise prices ranging from $0.98 to $21.45. The exercise of such outstanding options would dilute the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of shares of our common stock underlying such options may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, which could affect our stock price. Our charter and Bylaws contain certain anti-takeover provisions pursuant to the Maryland General Corporation Law. This means that we may be a less attractive target to a potential acquirer who otherwise may be willing to pay a premium for our common stock above its market price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 