Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Report, you should consider carefully the following factors, risks and uncertainties in evaluating our business. Our business and operations are subject to a number of factors, risks and uncertainties, and the following list should not be considered to be a definitive list of all factors that may affect our business, financial condition and future results of operations and should be read in conjunction with the factors, risks and uncertainties contained in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We caution readers that any forward-looking statements made by us are made with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act and that a number of factors, including but not limited to those discussed below, could cause our actual results and experiences to differ materially from the anticipated results or expectations expressed in any forward-looking statements. Our business relies on maintaining key customer relationships and certain key contracts. In fiscal 2004, the Company’s largest customers accounted for approximately 71.5% of the Company’s revenues, with three customers accounting for more than 10% of revenues. In fiscal 2005, the Company’s largest customers accounted for approximately 69.8% of the Company’s revenues, with three customers accounting for more than 10% of revenues. In fiscal 2006, the Company’s largest customers accounted for approximately 75.1% of the Company’s revenues, with 2 customers accounting for more than 10% of revenues. Given the nature of our contracts, revenues attributable to specific customers are likely to vary from year to year, and a significant customer in one year may not be a significant customer in a subsequent year. In order to reach our growth objectives, we will be required to seek contracts from new domestic and international customers as well as orders from existing customers for additional types of virtual simulated training solutions or increased quantities of previously ordered systems and simulated weapons. A significant decrease in demand by or the loss of one or more significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our business relies on obtaining key government contracts that are subject to regulatory requirements and availability of public funds. Most of our customers to date have been in the public sector of the U.S., including the federal, state and local governments, and in the public sectors of a number of other countries. Approximately 55.0% of our revenues for fiscal 2006 were attributable to sales to military authorities in the U.S., 5.7% were attributable to sales to law enforcement authorities in the U.S. and 39.3% were attributable to sales to military and law enforcement authorities internationally. Sales to public sector customers are subject to a multiplicity of detailed 15 Table of Contents regulatory requirements and public policies. For example, we are subject to export licensing requirements with respect to the transfer of arms and technical data used by our foreign subsidiaries to modify simulated weapons for use in systems supplied to international customers. The key regulatory requirements for FATS are (1) the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) whose oversight is performed by the Directorate of Defense Controls (DDTC) of the U.S. State Department and (2) the U.S. Government Firearms Control Act whose oversight is performed by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. The ITAR regulates exports of U.S. military equipment and technical data to our subsidiaries and foreign customers. The DDTC may revoke, suspend or amend our licenses without notice. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) authorizes FATS to be a dealer in regulated firearms and other destructive materials. The ATF, like the DDTC, may revoke licenses or deny their renewal for failure to follow prescribed regulations or as a result of the commission of criminal offenses. All of our subsidiaries also have similar licenses in their jurisdictions of incorporation. Any revocation of or refusal to renew our licenses would have a material adverse effect on the conduct of our operations and financial condition since we must posses such licenses and comply with governmental regulations in order to manufacture and market our products. In addition, public sector customer contracts may be conditioned upon the continuing availability of public funds, which in turn depends upon lengthy and complex budgetary procedures, and may be subject to certain pricing constraints. Moreover, U.S. government contracts and those of many international government customers may generally be terminated for convenience for a variety of factors when it is in the best interest of the government. There can be no assurance that these factors or others unique to government contracts will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. See Business – Government Contracts and Regulation and – Customers. Our business relies on maintaining and growing sales to international customers. A significant portion of our sales is made to customers located outside the U.S., primarily in Europe and Asia. In fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, 39.3%, 45.1%, and 51.6% of our revenues, respectively, were derived from sales to customers located outside the U.S. We expect that our international customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues in the near future. Sales to international customers may be subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts, currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations and changes in import/export regulations and tariff rates. In addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation have been and in the future may be proposed in the U.S. and certain other countries. Any resulting changes in current tariff structures or other trade and monetary policies could adversely affect our sales to international customers. Political and economic factors have been identified by the Company with respect to certain of the markets in which we compete. There can be no assurance that these factors will not result in defaults by customers in making payments due to the Company, in reductions in the purchases of our products by international customers or in foreign currency exchange losses. We do currently hedge on some, but not all, of these foreign currency transactions. In certain cases, we have reduced certain of the risks associated with international contracts by obtaining bank letters of credit to support the payment obligations of our customers and/or by providing in our contracts for payment in U.S. dollars. Our success is dependent upon the Company’s ability to incorporate rapid technological change. Our R&D personnel use certain established market-leading technologies to develop simulation systems and related products. Our continued success will depend on our ability to incorporate in FATS’ products changing technologies in such fields as electronics, mechanical engineering, training development and audio-visual and to develop and introduce new technology that meets the increasingly sophisticated training needs of our customers. Although we continuously pursue product R&D efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in adapting to these developments in a timely fashion. Any failure to so adapt could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See Business – Research and Development. 16 Table of Contents Our market is continuing to develop and there is no assurance that our products will continue to obtain acceptance. The market for interactive small and supporting arms training simulators is developing, and we believe that the Company’s continued and future success will depend upon, among other factors, the extent to which domestic and foreign military services and law enforcement departments continue to adopt simulation in their training regimens. There can be no assurance that the use of simulation training systems will become widespread or continue to grow or that our products will maintain their current share of the market. See Business – Industry Overview. We are likely to face continued competition for our products. The relatively undeveloped nature of the market in which we compete may attract new entrants, as they perceive opportunities in this market. While management believes that the Company is currently the most effective competitor in its market, existing and new competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company, may foresee the course of market developments more accurately than the Company and may develop products or may adapt more quickly than the Company to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. With respect to potential competitors, we believe that as the firearms simulation market continues to develop, a number of large domestic defense contractors have the capacity to become significant competitors due to their expertise with complex simulation systems and their relationships with the Department of Defense and the U.S. Congress. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current market position, and failure to compete successfully with existing and new competitors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See Business – Competition. Our quarterly results are subject to significant variations. Our revenues and results of operations historically have varied substantially from quarter to quarter and we expect these variations to continue. Among the factors causing these variations have been the number, timing and scope of the Company’s contracts and purchase orders, concentration of shipments under large orders and the uneven timing of the receipt by the Company of necessary authorizations from government customers. We recognize revenues primarily upon shipment of our products to FATS customers, while a high percentage of our operating expenses, including personnel, rent and debt service, are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, the concentration of several order deliveries in a particular quarter, unanticipated variations in the number and timing of shipments or customer delays in proceeding to succeeding stages of a contract could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the foregoing factors, our operating results for a future quarter may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock will likely be adversely affected. Our financial condition and the restrictive covenants contained in our credit facility may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or raise additional equity as may be required to fund our future operations. Our accumulated deficit and stockholders’ deficit was approximately $154.4 million and $25.7 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2006. Moreover, the terms of our New Credit Agreement may limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • retire or exchange outstanding debt; • pay cash dividends, redeem, retire or repurchase our stock or change our capital structure; • acquire assets or businesses or make investments in other entities; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; 17 Table of Contents • merge or consolidate with other entities; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets or use the proceeds from any asset sale or other disposition; and • create additional liens on our assets. Our business depends on our ability to manage growth. Our growth has been a result of our ability to define, develop and expand the markets for FATS products. Our future growth will depend on our ability to conduct such activities with the same or greater degree of success as in the past. Any such growth will continue to place significant demands on our management and other resources. In particular, we will have to continue to increase the number of FATS personnel, particularly marketing and management personnel, and continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal systems, both in the U.S. and internationally. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on the quality of our products and services, our ability to attract and retain key personnel, our business prospects and our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our current personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining the skilled employees we need to execute our business plan. Our future success will depend, in large part, on the continued service of our key management and technical personnel, including Ronavan Mohling, our Chief Executive Officer, David McGrane, our Chief Operating Officer, Gregory Ton, our Chief Financial Officer, and other key management, sales, marketing and R&D personnel. Failure to retain such key personnel or to attract and integrate other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If any of these individuals or others we employ are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We do not carry key person life insurance on our personnel. Mr. Mohling and Mr. McGrane have entered into an employment agreement with us; however, these agreements do not ensure their continued employment with us. We are dependent on our relationship with our agents in some countries. We conduct business in some countries using a local agent who can provide knowledge of the local market conditions and facilitate the acquisition of necessary licenses and permits. We rely in part upon the services of these agents to market our services, to act as intermediaries with customers and financial institutions and to provide other services on our behalf, such as training, minor maintenance, resolving customs issues, and collections. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in maintaining our relationships with our agents in various foreign countries, or that we will find qualified replacements for agents who may terminate their relationships with us. Because our agents may occasionally have the primary relationship with certain of our customers, we could lose some customers if a particular agent were to terminate his or her relationship with us. The loss of or failure to obtain qualified agents in a particular country or region could result in the temporary or permanent cessation of our sales and/or the failure to develop our business in that country or region. Because our business is dependent on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers and other transportation companies, changes in available cargo capacity and other changes affecting such carriers, as well as interruptions in service or work stoppages by such carriers, may negatively impact our business. We rely on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, trucking companies and other transportation companies for the movement of our products. Consequently, our ability to provide our products to our customer could be adversely impacted by shortages in available cargo capacity; changes by carriers and transportation companies in policies and practices such as scheduling, pricing, payment 18 Table of Contents terms and frequency of service or increases in the cost of fuel, taxes and labor; and other factors not within our control. Material interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation, whether caused by strike, work stoppage, lock-out, slowdown or otherwise, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitive position would be adversely affected. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property. Unauthorized third parties may copy our services or reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. End-user license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of any licensed program may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. We may seek to patent certain processes or equipment in the future. We do not know if any of our patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may not be adequate and third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. We believe that we do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of any third party. It is possible, however, that such a claim might be asserted successfully against us in the future. Our ability to provide our services depends on our freedom to operate. That is, we must ensure that we do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others or have licensed all such rights. A party making an infringement claim could secure a substantial monetary award or obtain injunctive relief that could effectively block our ability to provide services in the United States or abroad. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may, or may be claimed, to cover our technology. Current or future claims could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements to the extent necessary for the conduct of our business. However, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction against use of our proprietary or licenses systems. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could materially adversely affect our business and profitability. Control of our stock is concentrated in a few existing stockholders. A group of institutional lenders including several entities affiliated with Centre Partners Management beneficially own or have voting control over approximately 85% of the total outstanding shares of common stock with the Centre Partners affiliates Entities owning approximately 67%. Additionally, three of our directors are affiliated with Centre Partners. Such concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of the Company, including transactions in which the holders of the common stock might receive a premium on their shares over a prevailing market price. Moreover, such concentration of ownership could result in the Company undertaking certain types of transactions, including a potential change of control transaction that it might not otherwise pursue. In addition, by virtue of ownership of a majority of the outstanding voting stock of the Company, the institutional lenders and the Centre Partners affiliates will be able to control all elections of the directors as well as all other matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, including amendments to the certificate of incorporation, mergers and sales of substantially all assets, going private transactions and other extraordinary transactions. Provisions of our governing documents could discourage acquisition proposals or delay a change in control. Our Board of Directors is classified into three classes, each of which will serve for three years, with one class being elected each year. In addition, our Board of Directors is empowered to issue, without stockholder 19 Table of Contents action, preferred stock having the terms designated by the Board of Directors. The structure of the Board of Directors and the existence of this “blank check preferred” could render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of the Company by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. The issuance of preferred stock also could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of common stock and could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of common stock. Investor interest in our common stock may be negatively affected by our continued trading on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Our stock continues to trade on the NASD-operated Over-the-Counter (“OTC”) Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board market is generally considered to be less efficient and not as liquid as NASDAQ’s National Market. Continued trading in this market may decrease the market value and liquidity of our stock, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to attract additional investment to finance our operations. Numerous factors including announcements of fluctuations in the Company’s or its competitors’ operating results could have a significant impact on the future price of our common stock. In addition, in recent years, the equity market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many growth companies and that frequently have been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. Such market fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of the common stock. We have no present intention to pay dividends and our credit facility restricts our ability to pay dividends in the future. We currently intend to retain all available funds to finance the operation and expansion of our business and therefore do not anticipate paying any dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the New Credit Agreement prohibits the payment of any dividends in respect of the common stock. See Liquidity and Capital Resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 