Risk Factors” and in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” ITEM 1A. 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a number of substantial risks. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and they should be considered in connection with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors should be read together with the other items in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” -22- Deteriorating economic conditions globally, including the current financial crisis and declining consumer confidence and spending could harm our business. Global economic conditions have deteriorated significantly over the past year. Consumer confidence and spending have declined drastically and the global credit crisis has limited access to capital for many companies. Although we have continued to see growth in many of our markets during this period, the economic downturn could adversely impact our business in the future by causing a decline in demand for our products, particularly if the economic conditions are prolonged or continue to worsen. In South Korea, for example, we believe that our growth has started to slow due in part to prolonged difficult economic conditions in this market. In addition, such economic conditions may adversely impact access to capital for us and our suppliers, may decrease our distributors’ ability to obtain or maintain credit cards, and may otherwise adversely impact our operations and overall financial condition. Although we have historically met our funding needs utilizing cash flow from operations, no assurances can be given that we will not need to obtain additional equity or debt financing and that such financing will be available to us on terms that are favorable. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could lower our revenue and net income. In 2008, we recognized approximately 85% of our revenue in markets outside of the United States in each market’s respective local currency. We purchase inventory primarily in the United States in U.S. dollars. In preparing our financial statements, we translate revenue and expenses in foreign countries from their local currencies into U.S. dollars using weighted-average exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, particularly the Japanese yen inasmuch as we generated approximately 36% of our 2008 revenue in Japan, our reported revenue, gross profit and net income will likely be reduced. Foreign currency fluctuations can also result in losses and gains resulting from translation of foreign currency denominated balances on our balance sheet. In 2008, significant fluctuations in foreign currencies resulted in an $18.4 million loss. During the last couple of years the Japanese yen has strengthened considerably, which has improved our results. However, in prior years our results have been negatively impacted by weakening of the yen. Given the complex global political and economic dynamics that affect exchange rate fluctuations, it is difficult to predict future fluctuations and the effect these fluctuations may have upon future reported results or our overall financial condition. In the event the Japanese yen or other foreign currencies weaken, our results in 2009 would be negatively impacted. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currencies could also result in additional losses related to our foreign currency denominated balances on our balance sheet. Although we attempt to reduce our exposure to short-term exchange rate fluctuations by using foreign currency exchange rate contracts for Japanese yen and through yen-denominated debt, we cannot be certain these contracts or any other hedging activity will effectively reduce exchange rate exposure. Because our Japanese operations account for a significant part of our business, continued weakness in our business operations in Japan would harm our business. Approximately 36% of our 2008 revenue was generated in Japan. We have experienced a significant revenue decline in Japan over the last several years and continue to face challenges in this market. Factors that could impact our results in the market include: • continued or increased levels of regulatory and media scrutiny, or any adoption of more restrictive regulations in response to such scrutiny; • any weakening of the Japanese yen; -23- • regulatory constraints with respect to the claims we can make regarding the efficacy of products and tools, which could limit our ability to introduce or effectively market them; • risks that the new initiatives we are implementing in Japan, which are patterned after successful initiatives implemented in other markets, will not have the same level of success in Japan, may not generate renewed growth or increased productivity among our distributors, and may cost more or require more time to implement than we have anticipated; • inappropriate activities by our distributors and any resulting regulatory actions against us or our distributors; • any negative distributor reaction to our efforts to increase distributor compliance efforts in this market; • any weakness in the economy or consumer confidence; and • increased competitive pressures from other direct selling companies and their distributors who actively seek to solicit our distributors to join their businesses. Regulators in Japan have increased their scrutiny of the direct selling industry. Regulators in Japan have recently increased their scrutiny of our industry. Several direct sellers in Japan have been penalized for actions of distributors that violated applicable regualtions, including one prominent international direct selling company that was suspended from sponsoring activities for three months in 2008, and another large Japanese direct selling company that was suspended from sponsoring activities for six months in 2009. In addition, Japanese media has reported on increased political pressure on lawmakers supporting our industry. We have also experienced an increase in complaints and inquiries to consumer protection centers in Japan and have taken steps to try to resolve these issues including providing additional training and restructuring our compliance group in Japan. We have been in contact with consumer protection centers in Japan, one of which recently sent us a written warning that we needed to reduce the number of complaints and inquiries being filed with that consumer protection center. If consumer complaints escalate to a government review or if the current level of complaints does not improve, there is an increased likelihood that regulators could take action against us or we could receive negative media attention, either of which could harm our business. If we are unable to retain our existing independent distributors and recruit additional distributors, our revenue will not increase and may even decline. We distribute almost all of our products through our independent distributors (and China sales representatives) and we depend on them to generate virtually all of our revenue. Our distributors may terminate their services at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience high turnover among distributors from year to year. Distributors who join to purchase our products for personal consumption or for short-term income goals frequently only stay with us for a short time. Executive distributors who have committed time and effort to build a sales organization will generally stay for longer periods. Distributors have highly variable levels of training, skills and capabilities. As a result, in order to maintain sales and increase sales in the future, we need to continue to retain existing distributors and recruit additional distributors. To increase our revenue, we must increase the number of and/or the productivity of our distributors. -24- We have experienced periodic declines in both active distributors and executive distributors in the past. The number of our active and executive distributors may not increase and could decline again in the future. While we take many steps to help train, motivate, and retain distributors, we cannot accurately predict how the number and productivity of distributors may fluctuate because we rely primarily upon our distributor leaders to recruit, train, and motivate new distributors. Our operating results could be harmed if we and our distributor leaders do not generate sufficient interest in our business to retain existing distributors and attract new distributors. The number and productivity of our distributors also depends on several additional factors, including: • any adverse publicity regarding us, our products, our distribution channel, or our competitors; • lack of interest in, or the technical failure of, existing or new products; • lack of a sponsoring story that generates interest for potential new distributors and effectively draws them into the business; • the public's perception of our products and their ingredients; • the public's perception of our distributors and direct selling businesses in general; • our actions to enforce our policies and procedures; • any regulatory actions of charges against us or others in our industry; • general economic and business conditions; and • potential saturation or maturity levels in a given country or market which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain distributors in such market. Because our products are distributed exclusively through our distributors and we compete with other direct selling companies in attracting distributors, our operating results could be adversely affected if our existing and new business opportunities and incentives, products, business tools and other initiatives do not generate sufficient enthusiasm and economic incentive to retain our existing distributors or to sponsor new distributors on a sustained basis. In addition, in our mature markets, one of the challenges we face is keeping distributor leaders with established businesses and high income levels motivated and actively engaged in business building activities and developing new distributor leaders. There can be no assurance that our initiatives will continue to generate excitement among our distributors in the long-term or that planned initiatives will be successful in maintaining distributor activity and productivity or in motivating distributor leaders to remain engaged in business building and developing new distributor leaders. In addition, some initiatives may have unanticipated negative impacts on our distributors, particularly changes to our compensation plan. The introduction of a new product or key initiative can also negatively impact other product lines to the extent our distributor leaders focus their efforts on the new product or initiative. -25- Our business transformation initiatives may not achieve reduced overhead and growth, and may have unintended negative consequences. We continue to implement our business transformation initiatives to improve operational efficiencies in our corporate offices and reduce investments in unprofitable markets. In 2009, we plan to significantly reduce our workforce in Japan. There could be unintended negative consequences, including business disruptions, and any negative impact on our ability to effectively manage our business with reduced employee levels and corporate facilities. Further, we may not realize the cost improvements and greater efficiencies we hope for as a result of our realignment. In addition, as we continually evaluate strategic reinvestment of any savings generated as a result of our transformation initiative, we may not ultimately achieve the amount of savings that we anticipate. Although our distributors are independent contractors, improper distributor actions that violate laws or regulations could harm our business. Distributor activities in our existing markets that violate governmental laws or regulations could result in governmental actions against us in markets where we operate, which would harm our business. Except in China, our distributors are not employees and act independently of us. We implement strict policies and procedures to ensure our distributors will comply with legal requirements. However, given the size of our distributor force, we experience problems with distributors from time to time. For example, product claims made by some of our distributors in 1990 and 1991 led to an investigation by the FTC in the United States, which resulted in our entering into a consent decree with the FTC. In addition, recent rulings by the Korean FTC and by judicial authorities against us and other companies in Korea indicate that vicarious liability may be imposed on us for the criminal activity of our independent distributors. As we expand internationally, our distributors may attempt to anticipate which markets we will open in the future and may begin marketing and sponsoring activities in markets where we are not qualified to conduct business. If we are unable to address this issue, we could face fines or other legal action. Government inquiries, investigations, and actions could harm our business. There has been an increase in governmental scrutiny of our industry in various markets, including Japan, China, Europe, and the United Kingdom. Any adverse results in these cases could spur further reviews and actions with respect to others in the industry. From time to time, we receive formal and informal inquiries from various government regulatory authorities about our business and our compliance with local laws and regulations. Any determination that we or our distributors are not in compliance with existing laws or regulations could potentially harm our business. Even if governmental actions do not result in rulings or orders, they potentially could create negative publicity which could detrimentally affect our efforts to recruit or motivate distributors and attract customers and, consequently, reduce revenue and net income. In the early 1990s, we entered into voluntary consent agreements with the FTC and a few state regulatory agencies relating to investigations of our distributors’ product claims and practices. These investigations centered on alleged unsubstantiated product and earnings claims made by some of our distributors. We believe that the negative publicity generated by this FTC action, as well as a subsequent action in the mid-1990s related to unsubstantiated product claims, harmed our business and results of operation in the United States. Pursuant to the consent decrees, we agreed, among other things, to supplement our procedures to enforce our policies, to not allow distributors to make earnings representations without making additional disclosures relating to average earnings and to not make, or allow our distributors to make, product claims that were not substantiated. We have taken various actions, including implementing a more generous inventory buy-back policy, publishing average distributor earnings information, supplementing our procedures for enforcing our policies, and reviewing distributor product sales aids, to address the issues raised by the FTC and state agencies in these investigations. As a result of the previous investigations, the FTC makes inquiries from time to time regarding our compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our consent decree. Any further actions by the FTC or other comparable state or federal regulatory agencies, in the United States or abroad, could have a further negative impact on us in the future. -26- Challenges by private parties to the form of our network marketing system or other regulatory compliance issues could harm our business. We may be subject to challenges by private parties, including our distributors, to the form of our network marketing system or elements of our business. For example, lawsuits have recently been brought or threatened against some of our competitors that include allegations that the businesses involve unlawful pyramid schemes as well as other allegations. Adverse rulings in any of the cases that have been filed or that may be filed in the future could negatively impact our business if they create adverse publicity, modify current regulatory requirements in a manner that is inconsistent with our current business practices, or impose fines or other penalties. In the United States, the network marketing industry and regulatory authorities have generally relied on the implementation of distributor rules and policies designed to promote retail sales to protect consumers and to prevent inappropriate activities and to distinguish between legitimate network marketing distribution plans and unlawful pyramid schemes. We have adopted rules and policies based on case law, rulings of the FTC, discussions with regulatory authorities in several states and domestic and global industry standards. Legal and regulatory requirements concerning network marketing systems, however, involve a high level of subjectivity, are inherently fact-based and are subject to judicial interpretation. Because of the foregoing, we can provide no assurance that we would not be harmed by the application or interpretation of statutes or regulations governing network marketing, particularly in any civil challenge by a current or former distributor. Current or future governmental regulations relating to the marketing and advertising of our products and services, in particular our nutritional supplements, may restrict, inhibit or delay our ability to sell these products and harm our business. Our products and our related marketing and advertising efforts are subject to numerous domestic and foreign governmental agencies’ and authorities’ laws and extensive regulations, which govern the ingredients and products that may be marketed without registration as a drug and the claims that may be made regarding such products. Many of these laws and regulations involve a high level of subjectivity and are inherently fact-based and subject to interpretation. If these laws and regulations restrict, inhibit or delay our ability to introduce or market our products or limit the claims we are able to make regarding our products, our business may be harmed. There has been an increasing movement in the United States and other markets to increase the regulation of dietary supplements, which could impose additional restrictions or requirements in the future. In several of our markets, including Europe, South Korea and Hong Kong, new regulations have been adopted or are likely to be adopted in the near-term that could impose new requirements, make changes in some classifications of supplements under the regulations, or limit the levels of ingredients we can include and claims we can make. In addition, there has been increased regulatory scrutiny of nutritional supplements and marketing claims under existing and new regulations. In Europe for example, we are unable to market supplements that contain ingredients that were not marketed prior to May 1997 in Europe (“novel foods”) without going through an extensive registration and pre-market approval process. Europe is also expected to adopt additional regulations setting new limits on acceptable maximum levels of vitamins and minerals. In addition, the FDA recently finalized new regulations on Good Manufacturing Practices and Adverse Event Reporting requirements for the nutritional supplement industry. These regulations require good manufacturing processes for us and our vendors and reporting of serious adverse events associated with consumer use of our products. Our operations could be harmed if new regulations require us to reformulate products or effect new registrations, if regulatory authorities make determinations that any of our products do not comply with applicable good manufacturing practices and regulatory requirements, or if we are not able to effect necessary changes to our products in a timely and efficient manner in order to respond or comply to new regulations. In addition, our operations could be harmed if governmental laws or regulations are enacted that restrict the ability of companies to market or distribute nutritional supplements or impose additional burdens or requirements on nutritional supplement companies. -27- Our operations in China are subject to significant governmental scrutiny and may be harmed by the results of such scrutiny. Because of the government’s significant concerns about direct selling activities, government regulators in China closely scrutinize activities of direct selling companies or activities that resemble direct selling. The regulatory environment in China with regards to direct selling is evolving, and officials in multiple national and local levels in the Chinese government often exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply applicable regulations. In the past, the government has taken significant actions against companies that the government found were engaging in direct selling activities in violation of applicable law, including shutting down their businesses and imposing substantial fines. Our operations in China are subject to significant regulatory scrutiny, and we have experienced challenges in the past, including interruption of sales activities at certain stores and fines being paid in some cases. Although we have now obtained a direct selling license for certain locations, government regulators continue to scrutinize our activities and the activities of our direct sellers, sales promoters and sales employees to monitor our compliance with the new regulations and other applicable regulations as we integrate direct selling into our business model. We continue to be subject to current governmental reviews and investigations. At times, complaints made by our sales representatives to the government have resulted in increased scrutiny by the government. Any determination that our operations or activities, or the activities of our employed sales representatives, contractual sales promoters or approved direct sellers, are not in compliance with applicable regulations, could result in the imposition of substantial fines, extended interruptions of business, termination of necessary licenses and permits, including our direct selling licenses, or restrictions on our ability to open new stores or obtain approvals for service centers or expand into new locations, all of which could harm our business. If direct selling regulations in China are interpreted or enforced by governmental authorities in a manner that negatively impacts our retail business model or our dual business model there, our business in China could be harmed. Chinese regulators have adopted anti-pyramiding and direct selling regulations that contain significant restrictions and limitations, including a restriction on multi-level compensation for independent distributors selling away from a fixed location. The regulations also impose various requirements on individuals before they can become direct sellers, including the passage of an examination, which are more burdensome than in our other markets and which could negatively impact the willingness of some people to sign up to become direct sellers. There continues to be some confusion and uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of the regulations and their scope, and the specific types of restrictions and requirements imposed under them. Our business and our growth prospects would be harmed if Chinese regulators interpret the anti-pyramiding regulations or direct selling regulations as applying to our business model of retail stores with employed sales representatives and contractual sales promoters, or if regulations are interpreted in such a manner that our current method of conducting business through the use of employed sales representatives and contractual sales promoters or our implementation of direct selling that is currently underway is found to violate applicable regulations. In particular, our business would be harmed by any determination that our current method of compensating our sales employees and promoters, including our use of the sales productivity of a sales employee and the group of sales employees whom he or she trains and supervises as one of the factors in establishing such sales employee’s salary and compensation, violates the restriction on multi-level compensation in the new regulations. Our business could also be harmed if regulators inhibit our ability to concurrently operate our business model of retail stores with employed sales representatives and contractual sales promoters and our direct selling business. -28- If we are unable to obtain additional necessary national and local governmental approvals in China as quickly as we would like, our ability to expand our direct selling business and grow our business there could be negatively impacted. We have completed the required national and local licensing process and commenced direct selling activities in Beijing and Shanghai, Shenzhen City and four cities in the Guangdong province. In order to expand our direct selling model into additional provinces, we currently must obtain a series of approvals from district, city, provincial and national governmental agencies with respect to each province in which we wish to expand. The process for obtaining the necessary governmental approvals to conduct direct selling continues to evolve. As we are being required to work with such a large number of provincial, city, district and national governmental authorities, we have found that it is taking more time than anticipated to work through the approval process with these authorities. The complexity of the approval process as well as the government’s continued cautious approach as direct selling develops in China makes it difficult to predict the timeline for obtaining these approvals. If the results of the government’s evaluation of our direct selling activities result in further delays in obtaining licenses elsewhere, or if the current processes for obtaining approvals are delayed further for any reason or are changed or are interpreted differently than currently understood, our ability to expand direct selling in China and our growth prospects in this market, could be negatively impacted. Implementing a compensation plan and business model for our independent distributors in China that is different from other markets could harm our ability to grow our business in China. The direct selling regulations in China impose various limitations and requirements, including a prohibition on multi-level compensation and a requirement that all distributors pass a required examination before becoming a distributor. The regulations also impose other restrictions on direct selling activities that differ from the regulations in our other markets. As a result, we are implementing a direct selling compensation plan and business model for the direct sales component of our business that differs from the model we use in other markets. There can be no assurance that these restrictions will not negatively impact our ability to provide an attractive business opportunity to distributors in this market and limit our ability to grow our business in this market. In addition, the regulations do not allow the sale of general foods through a direct selling business model. Because some of our supplements, including LifePak, are being marketed as general foods until we obtain health food status for these products, we will only be able to sell these products at our stores and not away from the stores until they receive health food status, which could have a negative impact on our direct selling business. Product diversion to certain markets, including China, may have a negative impact on our business. From time to time, we see our product being sold through online or other distribution channels in certain markets. This has become a more significant problem in China. Product diversion causes confusion regarding our distribution channels and negatively impacts our distributors’ ability to retail our products. It also creates a negative impression regarding the viability of the business opportunity for our distributors and sales representatives, which can harm our ability to recruit new distributors and sales representatives. In addition, in some cases, product diversion schemes may also involve illegal importation, investment or other activities. If we are unable to effectively address this issue or if diversion increases, our business could be harmed. -29- Intellectual property rights are difficult to enforce in China. Chinese commercial law is relatively undeveloped compared to most of our other major markets, and, as a result, we may have limited legal recourse in the event we encounter significant difficulties with patent or trademark infringers. Limited protection of intellectual property is available under Chinese law, and the local manufacturing of our products may subject us to an increased risk that unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our product formulations. As a result, we cannot assure that we will be able to adequately protect our product formulations. If one of our tools is determined to be a medical device in a particular geographic market or if our distributors use it for medical purposes, our ability to continue to market and distribute such tool could be harmed. One of our strategies is to market unique tools that allow our distributors to distinguish our products, including the Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner and the Galvanic Spa System II. We do not believe these tools are medical devices and do not market them to our distributors as medical devices. In March 2003, the FDA questioned whether the Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner was a non-medical device. We subsequently filed an application with the FDA to have it affirmatively classified as a non-medical device. The FDA has not yet acted on our application. There are various factors that could determine whether a product is a medical device including the claims that we or our distributors make about it. We have faced similar uncertainties and regulatory issues in other markets with respect to the status of one or more of our tools as a non-medical device and the claims that can be made in using it. For example, we have faced regulatory inquiries in Japan, Korea, Singapore and Thailand regarding distributor claims with respect to the Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner. We are not able to market the Galvanic Spa System II in Taiwan due to similar regulatory restrictions. There have also been recent legislative proposals in Singapore and Malaysia relating to the regulation of medical devices which could have an impact on some or all of our tools. A determination in any of these markets that any of our tools are medical devices or that distributors are using it to make medical claims or perform medical diagnoses or other activities limited to licensed professionals or approved medical devices could negatively impact our ability to use these tools in a market. Regulatory scrutiny of a tool could also dampen distributor enthusiasm and hinder the ability of distributors to effectively utilize such tool. In the event medical device clearance is required in any market, obtaining clearance could require us to provide documentation concerning its clinical utility and to make some modifications to its design, specifications and manufacturing process in order to meet stringent standards imposed on medical device companies. If we obtained such medical device approval in order to sell a tool in one market, such approval may be used as precedent to a claim in another market that such approval should likewise be required in such market. There can be no assurance we would be able to provide the required medical device documentation, prove clinical utility in a manner sufficient to obtain medical device approval or make such changes promptly or in a manner that is satisfactory to regulatory authorities. Changes to our compensation arrangements with our distributors could be viewed negatively by some distributors and could harm our operating results if such changes impact distributor productivity. We have implemented a global compensation plan that has some components that differ from market to market. We modify components of our compensation plan from time to time in an attempt to keep our compensation plan competitive and attractive to existing and potential distributors, to address changing market dynamics, to provide incentives to distributors that we believe will help grow our business, and to address other business needs. Because of the size of our distributor force and the complexity of our compensation plans, it is difficult to predict whether such changes will achieve their desired results. For example, in 2005, we made changes to our compensation plan in Japan that had been successful in other markets, but did not have the impact in Japan that we anticipated and negatively impacted our business. China and certain markets in Southeast Asia similarly were negatively impacted by compensation plan changes in 2005. In 2008, we implemented modifications to our compensation plan in the Americas and Europe regions. We are currently planning to implement the same compensation plan features in most of our Asian markets in 2009. Because of unique features of existing plans in these markets, particularly in our Southeast Asia and Japan markets, implementation of these features will involve a more significant transition. There are risks that the compensation plan modifications we make will not be well received or achieve desired results in each of these markets and that the transition could have a negative impact on revenue. If our distributors fail to adapt to these changes or find them unattractive, our business could be harmed. -30- If we are unable to successfully expand and grow operations within our recently opened and developing markets, we may have difficulty achieving our long-term objectives. A significant percentage of our revenue growth over the past decade has been attributable to our expansion into new markets. Our growth over the next several years depends in part on our ability to successfully introduce products and tools, and to successfully implement initiatives in our new and developing markets, including China, Russia, Latin America and Eastern Europe that will help generate growth. In addition to the regulatory difficulties we may face in introducing our products, tools, and initiatives in these markets, we could face difficulties in achieving acceptance of our premium-priced products in developing markets. In the past, we have struggled to operate profitably in developing markets, such as Latin America. This may also be the case in Eastern Europe and the other new markets into which we have recently expanded. If we are unable to successfully expand our operations within these new markets, our opportunities to grow our business may be limited, and, as a result, we may not be able to achieve our long-term objectives. Adverse publicity concerning our business, marketing plan or products could harm our business and reputation. The size of our distribution force and the results of our operations can be particularly impacted by adverse publicity regarding us, the nature of our distributor network, our products or the actions of our distributors. Specifically, we are susceptible to adverse publicity concerning: • suspicions about the legality and ethics of network marketing; • the ingredients or safety of our or our competitors' products; • regulatory investigations of us, our competitors and our respective products; • the actions of our current or former distributors; and • public perceptions of direct selling generally. In the past we have experienced negative publicity that has harmed our business in connection with regulatory investigations and inquiries. We may receive negative publicity in the future, and it may harm our business and reputation. -31- Inability of new products to gain distributor and market acceptance could harm our business. A critical component of our business is our ability to develop new products that create enthusiasm among our distributor force. If we are unable to introduce new products, our distributor productivity could be harmed. In addition, if any new products fail to gain market acceptance, are restricted by regulatory requirements or have quality problems, this would harm our results of operations. Factors that could affect our ability to continue to introduce new products include, among others, government regulations, the inability to attract and retain qualified research and development staff, the termination of third-party research and collaborative arrangements, proprietary protections of competitors that may limit our ability to offer comparable products and the difficulties in anticipating changes in consumer tastes and buying preferences. The loss of key high-level distributors could negatively impact our distributor growth and our revenue. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 761,000 active independent distributors, sales representatives and preferred customers, including approximately 31,000 executive level distributors or full-time sales representatives. Approximately 480 distributors occupied the highest distributor level under our global compensation plan as of that date. These distributors, together with their extensive networks of downline distributors, account for substantially all of our revenue. As a result, the loss of a high-level distributor or a group of leading distributors in the distributor’s network of downline distributors, whether by their own choice or through disciplinary actions by us for violations of our policies and procedures, could negatively impact our distributor growth and our revenue. Laws and regulations may prohibit or severely restrict our direct sales efforts and cause our revenue and profitability to decline, and regulators could adopt new regulations that harm our business. Various government agencies throughout the world regulate direct sales practices. These laws and regulations are generally intended to prevent fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as “pyramid” schemes, that compensate participants for recruiting additional participants irrespective of product sales, use high pressure recruiting methods and/or do not involve legitimate products. The laws and regulations in our current markets often: • impose order cancellations, product returns, inventory buy-backs and cooling-off rights for consumers and distributors; • require us or our distributors to register with governmental agencies; • impose caps on the amount of commissions we can pay; and/or • require us to ensure that distributors are not being compensated based upon the recruitment of new distributors. Complying with these widely varying and sometimes inconsistent rules and regulations can be difficult and require the devotion of significant resources on our part. If we are unable to continue business in existing markets or commence operations in new markets because of these laws, our revenue and profitability will decline. Countries where we currently do business could change their laws or regulations to negatively affect or completely prohibit direct sales efforts. -32- Increases in duties on our imported products in our markets outside of the United States or adverse results of tax audits in our various markets could reduce our revenue, negatively impact our operating results and harm our competitive position. Historically, we have imported most of our products into the countries in which they are ultimately sold. These countries impose various legal restrictions on imports and typically impose duties on our products. We are subject from time to time to reviews and audits by the foreign taxing authorities of the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business throughout the world. These audits sometimes result in challenges by such taxing authorities as to our methodologies used in determining our income tax, duties, customs, and other amounts owed in connection with the importation and distribution of our products. Currently, customs audits are underway in a number of our markets. We have been assessed by the Japan customs authorities approximately yen 2.7 billion (or approximately $29.7 million as of December 31, 2008) for additional duties on products imported into Japan, and we are currently contesting this assessment. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company is operating under a new structure in Japan and we are in the process of negotiating a new advanced pricing agreement with the income tax authorities in Japan related to our transfer pricing for products being imported into Japan. In connection with these negotiations, they have requested that we explain our position in the custom’s appeal and the difference in our treatment of the transaction for customs purposes compared to our income tax treatment under the prior structures. In the event the income tax authorities disagree with our position or explanation, there is a risk that they could attempt to challenge our income tax position, which could negatively impact our ability to successfully prosecute our custom’s appeal or result in additional income tax assessments. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in recovering the amounts assessed and paid, we will be required to take a corresponding charge to our earnings. Governmental authorities may question our tax positions or transfer pricing policies or change their laws in a manner that could increase our effective tax rate or otherwise harm our business. As a U.S. company doing business in international markets through subsidiaries, we are subject to various tax and intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between our company and our subsidiaries. From time to time, we are audited by tax regulators in the United States and in our foreign markets. If regulators challenge our tax positions, corporate structure, transfer pricing mechanisms or intercompany transfers, we may be subject to fines and payment of back taxes, our effective tax rate may increase and our operations may be harmed. Tax rates vary from country to country, and, if regulators determine that our profits in one jurisdiction may need to be increased, we may not be able to fully utilize all foreign tax credits that are generated, which will increase our effective tax rate. For example, our corporate income tax rate in the United States is 35%. If our profitability in a higher tax jurisdiction, such as Japan where the corporate tax rate is currently set at 45%, increases disproportionately to the rest of our business, our effective tax rate may increase. The various customs, exchange control and transfer pricing laws are continually changing and are subject to the interpretation of governmental agencies. Despite our efforts to be aware of and comply with such laws and changes to and interpretations thereof, there is a risk that we may not continue to operate in compliance with such laws. We may need to adjust our operating procedures in response to such changes, and as a result, our business may suffer. The loss of suppliers or shortages in ingredients could harm our business. We acquire ingredients and products from two suppliers that each currently manufactures a significant portion of our Nu Skin personal care products. In addition, we currently rely on two suppliers for a majority of Pharmanex nutritional supplement products. In the event we were to lose any of these suppliers and experience any difficulties in finding or transitioning to alternative suppliers, this could harm our business. In addition, we obtain some of our products from sole suppliers that own or control the product formulations, ingredients, or other intellectual property rights associated with such products. These products include our Galvanic Spa System II and True Face Essence products, two products that have contributed significantly to our growth over the past year. We also license the right to distribute some of our products from third parties. In the event we are unable to renew these contracts, we may need to discontinue some products or develop substitute products, which could harm our revenue. In addition, if we experience supply shortages or regulatory impediments with respect to the raw materials and ingredients we use in our products, we may need to seek alternative supplies or suppliers. Some of our nutritional products, including g3 juice, incorporate natural products that are only harvested once a year and may have limited supplies. If demand exceeds forecasts, we may have difficulties in obtaining additional supplies to meet the excess demand until the next growing season. If we are unable to successfully respond to such issues, our business could be harmed. -33- Production difficulties and quality control problems could harm our business. Production difficulties and quality control problems and our reliance on third party suppliers to deliver quality products in a timely manner could harm our business. Occasionally, we have experienced production difficulties with respect to our products, including the delivery of products that do not meet our quality control standards. These quality problems have resulted in the past, and could result in the future, in stock outages or shortages in our markets with respect to such products, harming our sales and creating inventory write-offs for unusable products. In addition, these issues can negatively impact distributor confidence as well as potentially invite additional governmental scrutiny in our various markets. We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of the services provided by any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management, many of whom would be difficult to replace. In addition, expatriates serve in key management positions in several of our foreign markets, including Japan and China. These employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. We may not be able to successfully retain existing personnel or identify, hire and integrate new personnel. We do not carry key person insurance for any of our personnel. Although we have signed offer letters or written agreements summarizing the compensation terms for some of our senior executives, we have generally not entered into formal employment agreements with our executive officers. If we lose the services of our executive officers or key employees for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Our markets are intensely competitive, and market conditions and the strengths of competitors may harm our business. The markets for our products are intensely competitive. Our results of operations may be harmed by market conditions and competition in the future. Many competitors have much greater name recognition and financial resources than we have, which may give them a competitive advantage. For example, our Nu Skin products compete directly with branded, premium retail products. We also compete with other direct selling organizations. The leading direct selling companies in our existing markets are Herbalife, Mary Kay, Oriflame, Melaleuca, Avon and Amway. We currently do not have significant patent or other proprietary protection, and our competitors may introduce products with the same ingredients that we use in our products. Because of regulatory restrictions concerning claims about the efficacy of dietary supplements, we may have difficulty differentiating our products from our competitors’ products, and competing products entering the nutritional market could harm our nutritional supplement revenue. -34- We also compete with other network marketing companies for distributors. Some of these competitors have a longer operating history and greater visibility, name recognition and financial resources than we do. Some of our competitors have also adopted and could continue to adopt some of our successful business strategies, including our global compensation plan for distributors. Consequently, to successfully compete in this market and attract and retain distributors, we must ensure that our business opportunities and compensation plans are financially rewarding. We are beginning our 25th year in this industry and believe we have significant competitive advantages, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete in every endeavor in this market. Product liability claims could harm our business. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly or actually caused by our products. Although historically we have had a very limited number and relatively low financial exposure from product claims, we have experienced difficulty in finding insurers that are willing to provide product liability coverage at reasonable rates due to insurance industry trends and the rising cost of insurance generally. As a result, we have elected to self-insure our product liability risks for our product lines. Until we elect and are able at reasonable rates to obtain product liability insurance, if any of our products are found to cause any injury or damage, we will be subject to the full amount of liability associated with any injuries or damages. This liability could be substantial and may exceed our reserves. We cannot predict if and when product liability insurance will be available to us on reasonable terms. System failures could harm our business. Because of our diverse geographic operations and our complex distributor compensation plan, our business is highly dependent on efficiently functioning information technology systems. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, earthquakes, telecommunications failures and other events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. We have adopted and implemented a Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery Plan. Our primary data sets are archived and stored at third-party secure sites, but we have not contracted for a third-party recovery site. Despite any precautions, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems could result in interruptions in services and reduce our revenue and profits. There is a risk that a SARS like epidemic could negatively impact our business, particularly in those Asian markets most affected by such epidemics in recent years. Our revenue was negatively impacted in 2003 by the SARS epidemic that hit Asia during that year. It is difficult to predict the impact on our business, if any, of a recurrence of SARS, or the emergence of new epidemics. Although such events could generate increased sales of health/immune supplements and certain personal care products, our direct selling and retail activities and results of operations could be harmed if the fear of the Avian Flu, SARS or other communicable diseases that spread rapidly in densely populated areas causes people to avoid public places and interaction with one another. The market price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations due to a number of factors that are beyond our control. Our common stock closed at $17.72 per share on February 16, 2007 and closed at $10.83 per share on February 17, 2009. During this two-year period, our common stock traded as low as $8.42 per share and as high as $19.99 per share. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Some of these factors include: • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; -35- • the sale of shares of Class A common stock by our original or significant stockholders; • general trends in the market for our products; • acquisitions by us or our competitors; • economic and/or currency exchange issues in markets in which we operate; • changes in estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; and • general business and political conditions. Broad market fluctuations could also lower the market price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. As of December 31,2008, our original stockholders, together with their family members, estate planning entities and affiliates, controlled approximately 30% of the combined stockholder voting power, and their interests may be different from yours. The original stockholders of our company, together with their family members and affiliates, have the ability to influence the election and removal of the board of directors and, as a result, our future direction and operations. As of December 31, 2008, these stockholders owned approximately 30% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, they may influence decisions concerning business opportunities, declaring dividends, issuing additional shares of common stock or other securities and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. They may make decisions that are adverse to your interests. If our stockholders sell a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. Several of our principal stockholders hold a large number of shares of the outstanding common stock. A decision by any of our principal stockholders to aggressively sell their shares could depress the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 63.4 million shares of common stock outstanding. All of these shares are freely tradable, except for approximately 17.3 million shares held by certain founding stockholders who entered into lock-up agreements with us in connection with the repurchase of shares in 2003. Under the terms of these lock-up agreements, they are subject to certain volume limitations with respect to open market transactions. We have the discretion to waive or terminate these restrictions. In the event these lock-up restrictions were terminated, our stock price could be harmed if these stockholders sold large amounts of stock over a short period of time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 