ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should be aware that there are various risks associated with our business, and us, including the ones discussed below. You should carefully consider these risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this Form 10-K, in evaluating us and our business. WE HAVE LIMITED WORKING CAPITAL AND LIMITED CASH FUNDS. At June 30, 2013, we have total current assets of $61,291, of which $4,774 is cash on hand. At June 30, 2013, we have total current liabilities of $1,648,524. We have a working capital deficit of $1,587,233 at June 30, 2013. During the year ended June 30, 2013, we recognized revenues of $669,742 but recognized a net loss of $479,335. We have limited funds, and such funds may not be adequate to carry out the business plan. Our cash inflows from our operating activities are not enough to cover the costs incurred by our operational activities. The ultimate success of our business may depend upon our ability to raise additional capital. We have investigated the availability, source, or terms that might govern the acquisition of additional capital. If additional capital is needed, there is no assurance that funds will be available from any source or, if available, that they can be obtained on terms acceptable to us. If not available, our operations will be limited to those that can be financed with its modest capital. RISING EXPENSES AT BOTH THE PROPERTY AND THE COMPANY LEVEL COULD REDUCE OUR CASH FLOWS. Our serviced offices will be subject to operating risks common to offices in general, any or all of which may reduce revenues and cash flows. If any property is not substantially occupied or if services are being paid in an amount that is insufficient to cover operating expenses, we could be required to expend funds with respect to operating expenses. The serviced offices are subject to increases in utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repairs and maintenance and administrative expenses. We could be required to pay some or all of those costs which would reduce our income and cash available for expansion plans. TERMINATIONS COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES Our success depends upon the occupancy levels, the rental income and the operating expenses of our properties and our company. We may be unable to fill office space at 100% or we may lose clients as their companies expand in size and no longer need a serviced office. These events and others could cause us to recognize less revenue. 5 FLUCTUATION IN THE VALUE OF THE HONG KONG DOLLAR MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. Our operations are located in Hong Kong and as such our financial activities are done in Hong Kong Dollars. In accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Procedures (US GAAP) our financial statements are reported in U.S. Dollars. The value of the Hong Kong Dollar against the U.S. dollar may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. An appreciation of the Hong Kong dollar against the U.S. dollar could result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes when we translate our Hong Kong denominated liabilities into U.S. Dollars, as the U.S. Dollar would likely be our reporting currency. JV GROUP IS A HOLDING COMPANY AND THERE ARE LIMITATIONS ON OUR ABILITY TO RECEIVE DISTRIBUTIONS FROM OUR SUBSIDIARIES. We conduct all of our operations through our wholly-owned subsidiaries and are dependent upon dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Moreover, our subsidiaries are currently limited in their ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us. We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to fund the operations of the parent company in such manner. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS SUBSTANTIALLY ON THE CONTINUED RETENTION OF CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL AND OUR ABILITY TO HIRE AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL IN THE FUTURE TO SUPPORT OUR GROWTH. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. As a result, our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. While we depend on the abilities and participation of our current management team generally, we have a particular reliance upon Ms. Look, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of Ms. Look for any reason could significantly impact our business and results of operations. OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS MAY HAVE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST WHICH MAY NOT BE RESOLVED FAVORABLY TO US. Certain conflicts of interest may exist between us and our officers and directors. Our officers and directors have other business interests to which they devote their attention and may be expected to continue to do so although management time should be devoted to our business. As a result, conflicts of interest may arise that can be resolved only through exercise of such judgment as is consistent with fiduciary duties to us. BECAUSE INSIDERS CONTROL OUR ACTIVITIES, THAT MAY CAUSE US TO ACT IN A MANNER THAT IS MOST BENEFICIAL TO THEM AND NOT TO OUTSIDE SHAREHOLDERS WHICH COULD CAUSE US NOT TO TAKE ACTIONS THAT OUTSIDE INVESTORS MIGHT VIEW FAVORABLY. Mr. Yeung Cheuk Hung, an affiliate of the Company, owns approximately 61% of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Yeung effectively controls all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers and related party transactions. These insiders also have the ability to delay or perhaps even block, by their ownership of our stock, an unsolicited tender offer. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company that you might view favorably. 6 LOSS OF CONTROL BY OUR STOCKHOLDERS MAY OCCUR UPON ISSUANCE OF ADDITIONAL SHARES. We may issue additional shares, in the future, as consideration for cash, assets, or services out of our authorized but unissued common stock that would, upon issuance, represent a majority of our voting power and equity. The result of such an issuance would be those new stockholders and management would control us, and persons unknown could replace our management at this time. Such an occurrence would result in a greatly reduced percentage of ownership of us by our current stockholders. THE REGULATION OF PENNY STOCKS BY SEC AND FINRA MAY HAVE AN EFFECT ON THE TRADABILITY OF OUR SECURITIES. Our securities are currently listed on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board and the Pink Sheets. Our shares are subject to a Securities and Exchange Commission rule that imposes special sales practice requirements upon broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers or accredited investors. For purposes of the rule, the phrase "accredited investors" means, in general terms, institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000, or individuals having a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or having an annual income that exceeds $200,000 (or that, when combined with a spouse's income, exceeds $300,000). For transactions covered by the rule, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and also may affect the ability of purchasers in this offering to sell their securities in any market that might develop therefore. In addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted a number of rules to regulate "penny stocks." Such rules include Rules 3a51-1, 15g-1, 15g-2, 15g-3, 15g-4, 15g-5, 15g-6, 15g-7, and 15g-9 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Because our securities constitute "penny stocks" within the meaning of the rules, the rules would apply to us and to our securities. The rules may further affect the ability of owners of Shares to sell our securities in any market that might develop for them. Shareholders should be aware that, according to the Securities and Exchange Commission, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (i) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (ii) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (iii) "boiler room" practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (iv) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (v) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. OUR STOCK IS THINLY TRADED AND AS A RESULT YOU MAY BE UNABLE TO SELL AT OR NEAR ASK PRICES OR AT ALL IF YOU NEED TO LIQUIDATE YOUR SHARES. The shares of our common stock are thinly-traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our shares of common stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock 7 analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven, early stage company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares of common stock until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there are periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares of common stock is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on Securities price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our shares of Common Stock will develop or be sustained, or that any trading levels will be sustained. Due to these conditions, we can give investors no assurance that they will be able to sell their shares of common stock at or near ask prices or at all if you need money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares of common stock of our Company. RULE 144 SALES IN THE FUTURE MAY HAVE A DEPRESSIVE EFFECT ON OUR STOCK PRICE. All of the outstanding shares of common stock held by our present officers, directors, and affiliate stockholders are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As restricted Shares, these Shares may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement or under the requirements of Rule 144 or other applicable exemptions from registration under the Act and as required under applicable state securities laws. Rule 144 provides in essence that a person who has held restricted securities for six months may, under certain conditions, sell every three months, in brokerage transactions, a number of Shares that does not exceed the greater of 1.0% of a company's outstanding common stock or the average weekly trading volume during the four calendar weeks prior to the sale. There is no limit on the amount of restricted securities that may be sold by a nonaffiliate after the owner has held the restricted securities for a period of six months. A sale under Rule 144 or under any other exemption from the Act, may have a depressive effect upon the price of the common stock in any market that may develop. WE DO NOT ANTICIPATE PAYING CASH DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 