D. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our business and general business, economic, financing, legal and other factors or conditions that may affect us. We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Risks relating to our business and industry We have a history of substantial losses. We may experience additional losses in the future. We incurred significant operating losses in 2003 and 2004 when we incurred significant research and development expenses addressing the development of the metro CM-100 product, new telecom equipment products addressing high transmission of data for the metropolitan area. Our business was transitioning from the sale of asymmetric digital subscriber line, or ADSL, products in 2003 to the sale of the CM-100 metro product. We stopped selling ADSL products in 2003. We began to recognize revenues from sales of CM-100 products in 2004. We were able to generate both operating income and net income for the first time in 2005, as well as in 2006, although at much lower levels than in 2005. In 2007, we incurred operating losses of approximately $32 million due to a significant decrease in revenues from our only significant customer. It is likely that we will recognize both an operating and a net loss in 2008. We cannot be sure that we will be able to return to profitability. 5 Our revenues from 2004 through 2007 were dependent on sales of one product line to one telecom carrier in Japan. The significant decrease in revenues from this customer materially adversely affected our results of operations in 2006 and 2007 and the loss of this customer, or a continued decrease in purchases by it, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We expect to depend on sales of this product line to one or two customers for the substantial majority of our revenues in 2008. Almost all of our revenues from 2004 through 2007 were the result of the sales of our metro products, the CM-100. Approximately 99.8% of our revenues in 2005, 97.2% of our revenues in 2006 and 99.3% of our revenues in 2007 were derived from sales of these metro products to KDDI, a Japanese telecom carrier. We do not know for how long a period of time KDDI will continue to purchase products from us, nor do we have any control or influence over the purchasing decisions of KDDI, including the quantities, price and timing of the deployment of the CM-100 product line in its network. We recently introduced the CM-4000, a metro product with additional features and capabilities. We do not know if KDDI will choose to purchase our new CM-4000 product line. We recently added one other customer, Media Broadcast, which will sell our products in Germany. We expect to depend on sales of our CM product line to one or both of these customers for the substantial majority of our revenues in 2008. KDDI purchased the CM-100 for initial coverage deployment in its metropolitan area network. It began significant deployment in late 2004, continuing through 2005. KDDI’s deployments of the CM-100 decreased in 2006 through 2007. We do not expect significant deployments by KDDI in 2008. It is expected that once this stage is concluded, additional demand for the CM product from KDDI may be derived from growth in the number of subscribers for new IP video-related services offered by KDDI, both for wireline and wireless subscribers. There can be no assurance that KDDI will be successful in offering new services or securing additional subscribers. Sales to KDDI are dependent on their success in offering new services and securing additional subscribers. Even if KDDI is successful, there is no assurance that they will continue to purchase our products or that they will not choose another vendor. Our revenues from KDDI were significantly reduced in 2006 and 2007 in comparison to 2005. This materially adversely affected our results of operations. The loss of this customer, or a continued significant decrease in revenues from it, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We need to make sales to additional customers and to develop additional products in order to become profitable. We will need to make sales to additional customers and to develop additional products in order to become profitable for any period of time. Since 2004, all of our revenues have been derived from our CM-100 product line. We recently added a second product, the CM-4000, which, although commercially selected, has not been yet commercially deployed. We cannot be sure that we will be able to make significant sales of this product. This product is a higher end version of our CM-100. Our CM-100 and CM-4000 product lines were selected by Media Broadcast Gmbh as a network infrastructure building block for network solutions deployed by Deutsche Telekom’s wholesale business unit, addressing a leading cable operator in Germany. There is no specific obligation on Media Broadcast to purchase products from us. Thus, we cannot be sure of the amount of our products that will be purchased as a result of this selection, or the period of time over which our products may be purchased by Media Broadcast. 6 We have a history of extreme fluctuations in our cash from operations and are using our cash to fund our operating activities. In 2006 and 2007, we used $31.1 million and $15.7 million, respectively, of cash in our operating activities. Our use of cash from operations in 2007 was lower than in 2006 primarily because we received approximately $14.2 million in cash in connection with the settlement of a commercial dispute related to our legacy operations. In 2005, we generated $72.6 million in cash from operating activities. We realized substantially all of our positive cash flow from operations in 2005 due to the significant increase in sales to KDDI in Japan and the payment of receivables owed to us in advance of the recognition of the related revenue in our financial statements. We used cash in our operating activities in 2006 and 2007 as we recognized revenue in 2006 and 2007 with respect to sales that were paid for in previous years. In 2008, we expect to continue to use cash in our operating activities. If we are not able to generate cash from our operations in future periods beyond 2008, we might not be able to secure alternative funding, which could result in a need to reduce our expenditures for research and development and for sales and marketing We may need additional financing to grow our business. We may need to raise additional capital to continue our longer term expansion plans. The substantial cash required to fund our operating activities could impede our ability to fund our operations and to invest in our business. To the extent that we cannot fund our activities through our existing cash resources and any cash we may generate from operations, we may need to raise equity or debt funds through additional public or private financing or through arrangements with strategic partners in order to grow our business. In March 2007, we issued convertible notes in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $25.8 million, resulting in net proceeds to us of $25.0 million. These notes bear interest at the rate of 6% and are linked to the Israeli Consumer Price Index, or CPI. The notes are due in March 2017, and are subject to the right of the holders to request early repayment in March 2012. As of March 31, 2008, the indexed amount of our debt obligation under the notes was approximately $31.2 million (based on the U.S. Dollar/New Israeli Shekel exchange rate at March 31, 2008). We may be unable to repay these notes when due. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. This could cause us to reduce our expenditures for research and development and for sales and marketing, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to grow. We depend on third party distributors in Japan and Germany for the sale of our products. If these distributors do not succeed in selling our products, or if we are not able to maintain our relationship with them, our results of operations will suffer. Our sales of products to KDDI are made through OKI Electric Industry Co., Ltd., and our sales in Germany are made through Media Broadcast GmbH. We are dependent on these distributors’ marketing and sales efforts to convince customers or end-users to purchase our products and to provide local support services. If a distributor terminates or adversely changes its relationship with us, we may be unsuccessful in replacing it. The loss of a distributor could impair our ability to sell our products and materially adversely affect our results of operations. 7 The purchasing patterns in the markets we address will likely result in our revenues being highly volatile. Sales of our product lines are dependent on the capital equipment expenditure budgets of telecom carriers for metro network equipment. The purchasing patterns of telecom carriers for this type of expansion project are subject to high volatility. We have experienced a concentrated and inconsistent pattern of purchasing by KDDI in Japan. While product selections and subsequent deliveries may last several years, the purchasing pattern during the deployment period is highly uncertain and, accordingly, our revenues are likely to be subject to high volatility. Substantially all of our sales are currently in Japan. We have limited experience in selling and servicing metro products in Japan and no prior experience in selling and servicing metro products in Germany. This lack of experience could materially adversely impact our results of operations. Substantially all of our sales are currently in Japan, a country in which prior to 2004 we had no sales experience. We are also beginning to make initial sales of our metro products in Germany. Telecom equipment sales in both countries are subject to high quality and strict delivery requirements. We have limited experience in making sales of metro products into these markets and could face business requirements for quality, delivery, service and support that we may not meet. Failure to meet these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Successful introduction of service applications by telecommunication carriers that are expected to drive demand for our metro products could be delayed or slow to emerge. Service applications that drive the demand for our metro telecommunication products are related to the offering of video services, such as video-on-demand, HDTV and Internet TV, as well as other media services by telecommunication carriers over data networks. These types of services require very high bandwidth for packet-based transmissions and, as a result, require an upgrade of metropolitan, or metro, network equipment and access equipment. The availability of these services has begun to emerge in Asia, the United States and part of Europe, but is still limited in the breadth of services offered as well as in the number of subscribers. The launch of these services requires significant capital investment in equipment by telecom carriers in the access and metro networks for a range of products, as well as for content packages to be provided by the telecommunication carriers. Delays in the launch of these services or slow subscriber additions to these services will have an adverse effect on the demand for our metro products. If the growth of these services continues to be limited, we will be required to invest additional resources and use more cash in our research and development, as well as in marketing efforts, in an effort to attain and maintain a competitive position in these markets before we can benefit from commercial selection and revenues from our products. Telecommunication carriers could select solutions offered by our competitors to provide video services. Thus, even if the demand for video services increases, we cannot be sure that this increased demand will result in increased sales of our products. 8 A slow down in capital expenditures by telecommunications service providers had a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the past and may do so in the future. The global economic deterioration and economic uncertainty in the telecommunications market resulted in a curtailment of capital investment by telecommunications carriers and service providers beginning in late 2000 and continuing into 2003. Our results of operations were materially adversely affected during this period. There is still uncertainty with respect to the direction of the global economy and the telecommunications market. Consolidation of telecommunication carriers in the United States has led carriers to purchase from fewer telecommunication equipment vendors. We are currently experiencing a slow capital investment environment in Asia, the United States and Europe, which is likely to have a negative effect on the demand for new technologies and new types of equipment. This could significantly limit our ability to sell our products. Any future industry downturn could increase our inventories, decrease our revenues, result in additional pressure on the price of our products and prolong the time until we are paid, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We plan to continue to invest substantial capital and other resources in the development and commercial launch of new telecom equipment. We intend to make substantial investments in the development of telecom solutions capable of supporting high bandwidth services in telecommunications networks located in metropolitan areas. Most of our research and development and other operating expenses in 2007 were related to our recently announced CM-4000 products and we expect the CM-4000 to be our focus in 2008 as well. Our expenditures with respect to the development of new telecommunications equipment could reduce our cash balances and impede our ability to develop new products in addition to the CM-100 and CM-4000 product lines. Our future growth will depend upon the acceptance of the technologies developed by us and the development of markets for our products. The markets for our products are dependent on resilient packet ring, or RPR, multi protocol label switching, or MPLS, pseudo wire emulation, or PWE, and a range of emerging technologies. These technologies address migration of synchronous transmission protocols used at relatively low transmission rates to a metropolitan area Ethernet network that is not limited to synchronous transmission protocols and operates at 10 giga bits per second and higher rates. We believe that these technologies will support the upgrade of existing metro networks on a cost efficient basis in order to provide IP transmissions addressing high numbers of subscribers and multiple services, at significantly higher transmission speeds than are currently available. The markets for our products are also dependent on the need to support legacy services and new data services over a single unified metro network. The market for products based on RPR, MPLS and PWE technologies in the metropolitan area may not fully develop, whether as a result of competition, adoption of alternative technologies or changes in technologies. Ethernet over fiber in the metro area, an alternative technology, has gained market share. In addition, changes in technology, such as reconfigurable Optical add-drop multiplexing, or ROADM, technology, has developed as an alternative technology which was recently selected as a prime network architecture for the metro network by major telecom carriers. Our future success depends on the acceptance of our products and technologies and the purchase of high-transmission services by the customers of telecommunications companies. We have no control over the development of these target markets. Even if our technologies are accepted, relationships with providers of telecommunications services must be developed in order to be successful. Furthermore, competing technologies in the targeted areas may be utilized in the majority of these target markets. This would leave us with a small market to address. 9 We may not be able to keep pace with emerging industry standards for products we are developing. This could make these products more costly or unacceptable to potential customers. Industry-wide standards for RPR, MPLS PWE, as well as various aspects of the standards applicable to Ethernet, continue to be enhanced. We design our products to support these standards and evaluate new requirements as they are proposed by industry working groups. The adoption of standards different from those currently used by us could result in us having to incur additional time and expense in order for our products to comply with these standards. Standards may be adopted by various industry groups or may be proprietary and nonetheless accepted broadly in the industry. The failure to support evolving standards could limit acceptance of our products. Since these products will be integrated into networks consisting of elements manufactured by various companies, they must support a number of current and future industry standards and practices. It may take us a significant amount of time to develop and design products incorporating these new standards. We may also have to pay licensing fees to the developers of the technologies that constitute newly adopted standards. This would increase our expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations. Because telecommunications companies must obtain in-house and regulatory approvals before they can order our products, expected sales of our products to new customers or new products to existing customers are likely to be subject to a long sales cycle, which may harm our business. Before telecommunications companies can purchase our products, these products must undergo a lengthy approval process. Evaluations and modifications of our products to meet customers’ requirements are likely to take several years prior to commercial selection. Accordingly, we are required to submit enhanced versions of products undergoing the approval process and products in development for approval. The following factors, among others, affect the length of the approval process: — the time required for telephone companies to determine and publish specifications; — the complexity of the products involved; — the technological priorities and budgets of telephone companies; and — the regulatory requirements applicable to telephone companies. Delays in the product approval process could seriously harm our business and results of operation. 10 Because of rapid technological and other changes in the market for telecommunications products, we must continually develop and market new products and product enhancements while reducing production costs. The market for our products is characterized by: — rapid technological change; — frequent product introductions and enhancements; — evolving industry standards; — changes in end-user requirements; and — changes in services offered by telecommunication companies. Technologies or standards applicable to our products could become obsolete or fail to gain widespread, commercial acceptance, resulting in losses and inventory write-offs. Rapid technological change and evolving technological standards are resulting in relatively short life cycles for our products. Short life cycles for our products could cause decreases in product prices at the end of the product life cycle, inventory write-offs and a lower rate of return on our research and development expenditures. We may not be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product introductions by others or successfully develop or market new products. We may be required to recognize our deferred income, which would accelerate recognition of revenues and cause fluctuations in our results of operations. From 2004 through 2007, we recognized revenues from our major customer in Japan ratably over the fourteen-month period of post-contract hardware and software support services, or PCS. This revenue recognition policy was required by generally accepted accounting principles since the fair value of the PCS could not be determined. We received the cash payments for these sales over a shorter period than the revenue recognition period. As a result, changes in our cash and investment balances were not correlated with the amount of our quarterly revenues. If we become able to determine, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the fair value of the PCS that we undertook to provide to our major customer in Japan, it is likely that the remaining unrecognized revenue, which was $2.3 million as of December 31, 2007, as well as the related amount of deferred income, which was $1.0 million as of December 31, 2007, will be required to be recognized. This would result in a one-time recognition of revenues and income. No cash from operations will result from this revenue recognition, if required. If we are able to make this determination with respect to our product and services offerings and if we continue to experience a volatile pattern of orders and related product delivery schedules similar to what we experienced in the past, we will likely recognize revenues over a shorter period of time than in the past and could experience additional fluctuations in our quarterly revenues, cash flows and results of operations. The determination with respect to the fair value of the PCS of our product and services offerings could vary between different customers. We may accumulate excess or obsolete inventory that could result in unanticipated price reductions or write downs and adversely affect our results of operations. Telecommunications companies typically require prompt delivery of products. Sales are typically shipped within a period of up to three months from the date we receive a purchase order. As a result, we may be required to maintain or have available sufficient inventory levels or make advance lengthy lead-time component orders to satisfy anticipated demand on a timely basis. Rapid technological change, evolving industry standards or shifts in demand can also result in shorter life cycles for our inventory. The recent introduction of the CM-4000 product may result in reduction in the demand for CM-100 and obsolescence of related inventory. This increases the risk of decreases in selling prices, inventory obsolescence and associated write-offs, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. 11 The market for our telecommunication products is intensely competitive. Because substantially all of our competitors have much greater resources than we have, it may be difficult for us to effect commercial sales or to achieve operating profitability. The market for our products is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Many of our current and potential competitors are large and established companies and have better name recognition and greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and personnel resources than us. Consolidation has increased the size and scope of a number of our competitors. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, cause us to lower our prices in order to compete and reduce our market share and revenues, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The expansion of research and design facilities in China and India, where engineering costs are significantly lower compared to the U.S., Western Europe or Israel, is expected to increase competition and price pressure for our products. In addition, it is also expected that manufacturers of telecom equipment in China will attempt to leverage their success in supplying telecom equipment to local carriers in Asia and will increase their marketing and sales efforts outside China. The competitors in our markets are numerous and we expect competition to increase in the future. The principal competitors for our products include Alcatel-Lucent, Ciena, Cisco Systems, Inc., ECI Telecom Ltd., Ericsson, Fujitsu, Huwaei, NEC, Nortel Networks, Nokia-Siemens Networks, Tellabs and UTStarcom. Government regulation of telecommunication companies could adversely affect the demand for our products. Telecommunication regulatory policies affecting the availability of telephone companies’ services, and other terms on which telephone companies conduct their business, may impede the market penetration of our metro products. For example, our CM-100 and CM-4000 product lines address high bandwidth packets, and are dependent on new service offerings, such as video services, which require regulatory approvals for introduction by telecom carriers, including for the scope of content, service packages and tariffs. Telecommunication companies in the markets in other countries in which we may attempt to sell our products are also subject to evolving governmental regulation or state monopolies. Changes in laws or regulations in Japan, the U.S., Germany, the rest of Europe or elsewhere could materially adversely affect our ability, and the ability of our customers, to deploy our products. Because a limited number of subcontractors manufacture and assemble our products and because we have a number of single source suppliers of components, our business could suffer if we cannot retain or replace them. We use third-party subcontractors to assemble our products. We have not entered into multi-year agreements with assurances of supply with any of our suppliers or subcontractors. 12 Our reliance on third-party subcontractors involves several risks, including: — the potential absence of adequate capacity if we are able to sell a significant amount of our products; — the unavailability of, or interruption in access to, certain process technologies; — reduced control over product quality, delivery, schedules, manufacturing yields and costs; and. — higher per unit prices we could be charged for the manufacturing services we purchase based on the amount of services purchased. Shortages of raw materials or production capacity constraints at our subcontractors could negatively affect our ability to meet product delivery obligations and result in increased costs for affected products that we may not be able to recover. Use of subcontractors also involves the risk of reduced control over product quality, delivery schedules and manufacturing yields, as well as limited negotiating power to reduce costs. We obtain a number of key semiconductor components used in our products from single source providers. In order to have an adequate supply of components with a long lead-time for delivery, we may order significant quantities of components from single source suppliers in advance of receiving a purchase order from our customer. A shortage in the supply of key semiconductor and other components could affect our ability to manufacture and deliver our products and result in lower revenues. We may be unable to find alternative sources in a timely manner, if at all, if any of our single source suppliers were unwilling or unable to provide us with key components. In addition, supply from single source suppliers limits our ability to purchase components at competitive prices and could require us to maintain higher inventory levels. This increases our need for working capital and increases the risk of an inventory write-off. In addition, unless we can significantly increase our sales above 2007 levels, we may be charged higher per unit prices for the manufacturing services we purchase. In addition, we may also be charged higher per unit prices for certain components whose costs are unit sensitive. This would adversely affect our gross profit margins. If we cannot obtain sufficient manufacturing services or key components as required, or develop alternative sources if and as required in the future, product shipments may be delayed or reduced. This could adversely affect our end-user relationships, business and results of operations. 13 We are subject to regulations that will require us to use components based on environmentally friendly materials. Compliance with these regulations may increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to telecommunications industry regulations requiring the use of environmentally-friendly materials in telecommunications equipment. For example, pursuant to a European Union directive, known as the “RoHs5 regulations”, telecom equipment suppliers were required to stop using specified materials that are not “environmentally friendly” by July 1, 2006. We are compliant with RoHs5 regulations. In addition, telecom equipment suppliers are required under this directive to eliminate the lead solders from their products by 2010 (the “RoHs6 regulations”). We will be dependent on our suppliers for components and sub- system modules, such as semiconductors and printed circuit boards, to comply with these requirements. We have not yet complied with this directive. We will attempt to comply with this directive by 2009. If we are not compliant with this directive on time, it may harm our ability to sell our products in Europe and in any other countries that may adopt this directive. Compliance with this directive, especially with respect to the requirement that products be lead free, will require us to undertake significant expense with respect to the re-design of our products. This could also result in part or our entire inventory becoming obsolete. In addition, we may be required to pay higher prices for components that comply with this directive. We may not be able to pass these higher component costs on to our customers. We cannot at this point estimate the expense that will be required to redesign our products in order to include “environmentally friendly” components. We cannot be sure that we will be able to timely comply with these regulations, that we will be able to comply on a cost effective basis or that a sufficient supply of compliant components will be available to us. Compliance with these regulations could increase our product design costs. Our inability or failure to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Manufacturers of components that require lead solders may decide to stop manufacturing those components prior to the 2010 compliance date. These actions by manufacturers of components could result in a shortage of components that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We could incur substantial costs if customers assert warranty claims or request product recalls. Any significant product returns or claims under our warranty or PCS could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We offer complex products that have in the past and may in the future contain errors, defects or failures when introduced or as new versions are released. If we deliver products with defects, errors or bugs or if we undergo a product recall as a result of errors or failures, market acceptance of our products could be lost or delayed and we could be the subject of substantial negative publicity. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We commenced commercial sales of our metro product in 2004. While to date we have not incurred warranty expenses that exceeded our estimates, we could incur a higher level of warranty expense claims at any time compared to our prior experience. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in the products sold by us and expect to continue to provide a similar indemnity in connection with future sales. In some cases, our indemnity also covers indirect damages. Product liability claims could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 As a result of our issuance of convertible notes in March 2007, we have a significant amount of debt denominated in NIS and linked to the Israeli CPI and may have insufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations. In addition, the amount of our debt could impede our operations and flexibility. In March 2007, we issued convertible notes in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $25.8 million (based on the U.S. Dollar/New Israeli Shekel (“NIS”) exchange rate at that time). The convertible notes are denominated in NIS, bear interest at the rate of 6% and are linked to the Israeli CPI. The convertible notes are due in March 2017, and are subject to the right of the holders to request early repayment beginning in March 2012. As of March 31, 2008, the indexed amount of our debt obligation under the convertible notes was approximately $31.2 million (based on the U.S. Dollar/New Israeli Shekel exchange rate at March 31, 2008). The notes are convertible at the election of the holders into our ordinary shares at the initial conversion price of NIS 52.50 (approximately $14.78, based on U.S. Dollar/NIS exchange rate at March 31, 2008) per share if the conversion occurs by March 10, 2010 and at the initial conversion price of NIS 63.00 (approximately $17.73, based on U.S. Dollar/NIS exchange rate at March 31, 2008) per share if the conversion occurs thereafter, in each case subject to adjustment for customary events. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on the notes, we will be in default under the trust agreement governing the notes which could, in turn, cause defaults under our other existing or future indebtedness. Even if we are able to meet our payment obligations on the notes, the amount of debt we have incurred could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including by: — limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; — limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; — placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors who have less or no debt; — making us more vulnerable to the downturn in our business and the economy generally; — requiring us to apply a substantial portion of our cash flows towards payments on our debt, instead of using those funds for other purposes, such as working capital or capital expenditures; and — harming our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to international business risks. We have sold our CM-100 products mainly in Japan and are marketing our products primarily in Asia, the United States and Europe. Expansion of our international business requires significant management attention and financial resources. Our international sales and operations are subject to numerous risks inherent in international business activities, including: 15 — compliance with foreign laws and regulations; — staffing and managing foreign operations; — import or currency control restrictions; — burdens that may be imposed by tariffs and other trade barriers; — local and international taxation; — increased risk of collections; — transportation delays; and — seasonal reduction of business activities. These factors, as well as different technical standards or product requirements for our systems in different markets, may limit our ability to penetrate foreign markets. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the service of these individuals, our business could be harmed. We have also recently made management changes. Our growth and future success largely depends on the managerial and technical skills of members of senior management. If any of them is unable or unwilling to continue with us, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Recently, we made several management changes. We appointed Mr. Uri Shalom, who previously acted as the Vice President Finance of our Corrigent subsidiary, as our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Eli Aloni as Executive Vice President, Technology and Marketing of Corrigent, Mr. Zvi Menahemi, who previously acted as Vice President R&D of Corrigent, as Chief Operating Officer of Corrigent, and Mr. Oren Tepper, who previously acted as Vice President Business Development of Corrigent, as the Vice President of Corporate Sales of Corrigent. Any failure of our management to properly manage our business would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have experienced periods of growth and consolidation of our business. If we cannot adequately manage our business, our results of operations will suffer. We have experienced both growth and consolidation in our operations from sales of our metro products. Future growth or consolidation may place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. We cannot be sure that we have made adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with possible expansion and consolidation of our business, or that our systems, procedures and managerial controls will be adequate to support our operations. Any delay in implementing, or transitioning to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls may adversely affect our ability to manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. We believe our growth may require us to hire additional engineering, technical support, sales, administrative and operational personnel. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense in the areas where we operate. The process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. If we are unable to successfully manage our expansion, we may not succeed in expanding our business, our expenses may increase and our results of operations may be adversely affected. 16 Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. We may not be able to prevent the misappropriation of our technology, and our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. We have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our technologies. To protect our unpatented proprietary know-how, we rely on technical leadership, trade secrets and confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements. These agreements and measures may not adequately protect our technology and it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our authorization or to develop similar technology. There is a risk that we may violate the proprietary rights of others. We are subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of other companies. Many participants in the telecommunications industry have an increasing number of patents and patent applications and have frequently commenced litigation based on alleged infringement. We indemnify our customers with respect to infringement of third party proprietary rights by our products. Third parties may assert infringement claims in the future and these claims may require us to enter into license arrangements or result in costly litigation, regardless of the merits of these claims. Licensing may be unavailable or may not be obtainable on commercially reasonable terms. We face foreign exchange currency risks. We operate in a number of territories and, typically our prices are determined in local currencies of the countries in which we operate. We hold cash deposits in the main currencies we operate with, that is, in the U.S dollar, Japanese Yen (“Yen”) and NIS. In 2008, we expect that a significant majority of our revenues will be derived from non US dollar currencies, the Yen and Euro, and that a major part of our expenses will be denominated in U.S. dollars and in NIS. In particular, we are obligated to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, our convertible notes in NIS. We currently do not use hedge instruments. We are likely to face risks from fluctuations in the value of the Yen, NIS and the Euro compared to the U.S. dollar, the functional currency in our financial statements. In 2006, the value of the U.S. dollar increased against the Yen, which caused us to recognize lower dollar revenues and gross profit in our financial statements. In 2007, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased against the Yen, which caused us to recognize higher dollar revenues and gross profit in our financial statements. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Yen and Euro in 2008 would cause a decrease in our revenues and gross profit derived in Yen and Euro, respectively. In 2006 and 2007, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased against the NIS which caused us to recognize higher dollar expenses (mainly salary expenses). A further decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar against the NIS would cause a further increase in our expenses. 17 We are subject to risks from our financial investments. We invest the majority of our cash on hand in a variety of financial instruments, including different types of corporate and government bonds from different countries, and other financial instruments. Some of these bonds and instruments are rated below investment grade or are not rated. If the obligor of any of the bonds or instruments we hold defaults or undergoes a reorganization in bankruptcy, we may lose all or a portion of our investment in such obligor. This will harm our financial condition. For information on the types of our investments as of December 31, 2007, see Item 11 – “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk Management.” We are subject to taxation in several countries. Because we operate in several countries, mainly in Israel, Japan, the U.S. and Germany, we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. We are required to report to and be subject to local tax authorities in Israel, the U.S and Japan. In addition, our income that is derived from sales to customers in one country might also be subject to taxation in another country. We cannot be sure of the amount of tax we may become obligated to pay in Israel, the U.S, Japan or Germany. The tax authorities in the countries in which we operate may not agree with our tax position. Our tax benefits from carry forward losses and other tax planning benefits such as Israeli approved enterprise programs, may prove to be insufficient due to Israeli tax limitations, or may prove to be insufficient to offset tax liabilities from foreign tax authorities. Foreign tax authorities may also use our gross profit or our revenues in each territory as the basis for determining our income tax, and our operating expenses might not be considered for related tax calculations. This could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks relating to our operations in Israel. Potential political, economic or military instability in Israel may adversely affect our results of operations. Our principal offices and many of our subcontractors and suppliers are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a marked increase in hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, and in January 2006, Hamas, an Islamist movement responsible for many attacks against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority. Further, in the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in a war with Hezbollah, a Lebanon-based Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. In June 2007, there was an escalation of violence in the Gaza Strip, resulting in Hamas effectively controlling the Gaza Strip. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians, as well as tension between Israel and the neighboring Syria and Lebanon, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. The future of relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority is uncertain. Terror attacks, armed conflicts or political instability in the region could negatively affect local business conditions and harm our results of operations. We cannot predict the effect on us of the increase in the degree of violence by Palestinians against Israel or the effect of military action elsewhere in the Middle East. Furthermore, several countries restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional companies may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of the increase in hostilities. This may also seriously harm our operating results, financial condition and the expansion of our business. 18 Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Most of our male employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty from time to time. In addition, in the event of a military conflict or other attack on Israel, including the ongoing conflict with the Palestinians, these persons could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. The absence of a number of our officers and employees for significant periods could disrupt our operations and harm our business. Because almost all our revenues are generated in non-U.S. dollar currencies and a substantial portion of our expenses are incurred in New Israeli Shekels and other non-U.S. dollar currencies, our results of operations may be adversely affected by inflation and currency fluctuations. A significant majority of our revenues in 2008 are expected to be generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Yen and Euro, while the majority of our payroll expenses and a portion of our other expenses are incurred in NIS, and a significant portion of our cost of revenues is incurred in U.S. dollars. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Yen or Euro would adversely affect the amount of revenues we report in our financial statements, although in 2007 and the first quarter of 2008, the value of the U.S. dollar declined against the Yen and the Euro. We could be further exposed to risk if the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the Yen, U.S. dollar and other currencies of other foreign countries in which we operate, or if the timing of such devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In that event, the cost in U.S. dollars of our operations in Israel would increase and our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations would be adversely affected. For example, in 2006, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased in relation to the NIS by 8.2%, while inflation decreased by only 0.1%. As a result, our salary expenses, which are primarily linked to the NIS, increased in U.S. dollar terms. In 2007, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased in relation to the NIS by 9.0%, while inflation increased by 3.4%. As a result, our salary expenses, which are primarily linked to the NIS, increased in U.S. dollar terms. Our issuance in March 2007 of approximately $25.8 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes, which are denominated in NIS, has made us more sensitive to increases in the value of the NIS relative to the U.S. dollar. In 2007, after the issuance of the notes, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased in relation to the NIS, and the Israeli inflation increased which caused us to record significant financial expenses. Subject to such exchange rate differences as of the end of each reporting period, we may record higher or lower expenses in our financial statements. We benefit from government grant programs that have been reduced and may be unavailable to us in the future. Our participation in these programs restricts our ability to freely transfer manufacturing rights and technology out of Israel. Since our inception, we have relied on Israeli government grants for the financing of a significant portion of our product development expenditures. Due to a continuing reduction of the budget of Israel’s Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, the amount of grants we receive in the future might be lower than in prior years, if we receive any at all. In 2005, we recognized $173,000 of grants for our research and development, which caused an increase in our research and development expenses. We recognized grants in the amount of $1.9 million in 2006 and $2.5 million in 2007. 19 Generally, according to Israeli law, any products developed with grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist are required to be manufactured in Israel, unless we obtain prior approval of a governmental committee. As a condition to obtaining this approval, we may be required to pay the Office of the Chief Scientist up to 300% of the grants we received and to repay these grants at an accelerated rate, depending on the portion of manufacturing performed outside Israel. We have obtained an approval from the Office of the Chief Scientist to manufacture outside Israel. We intend to keep sufficient manufacturing activities in Israel so that we will be subject to a repayment percentage of up to 150% of the grants we received. In addition, we are prohibited from transferring to third parties the technology developed with these grants without the prior approval of a governmental committee. See “Item 5B – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Government and Other Grants” for additional information about these programs of the Office of the Chief Scientist. The tax benefits to which we are currently entitled require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. We are entitled to certain government programs and tax benefits, particularly as a result of the “Approved Enterprise” status of most of our existing facilities. If we fail to meet eligibility conditions in the future, the tax benefits could be reduced or canceled. For more information about Approved Enterprises, see “Item 5B – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Effective Corporate Tax Rates in Israel” below and Note 5a to the financial statements incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors and our Israeli auditors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon our directors and officers and our Israeli auditors may be difficult to effect in the United States because all these parties reside outside the United States. Any judgment obtained in the United States against such parties may not be collectible in the United States. It may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. 20 However, subject to time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. judgment in a civil matter, if: — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — the judgment was rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction, in compliance with due process and the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; — no action between the same parties in the same matter is pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in a U.S. court; and — the U.S. courts are not prohibited from enforcing judgments of the Israeli courts. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make an acquisition of us more difficult, which could depress our share price. The Israeli Companies Law generally requires that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares voting on the proposed merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy its obligations. In addition, a merger may generally not be completed unless at least (i) 50 days have passed since the filing of the merger proposal with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (ii) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each of the parties to the merger. Also, in certain circumstances an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 25% or greater or 45% or greater shareholder of the company (unless there is already a 25% or greater or a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, respectively). If, as a result of an acquisition, the acquirer would hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. The described restrictions could prevent or make more difficult an acquisition of Orckit, which could depress our share price. Risks Relating to the Ownership of our Ordinary Shares Holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents face certain income tax risks. In any tax year, we could be deemed a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. holders of our ordinary shares. Based on the composition of our gross income and the composition and value of our gross assets during 2007, it is likely that we would be deemed to have been a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes during 2007. For each of 2005 and 2006, we believe that we would not be deemed to have been a PFIC in either of those years, although it is likely that we would be deemed to have been a PFIC in each of 2003 and 2004. There can be no assurance that we will not be deemed a PFIC for any future tax year in which, for example, the value of our assets, as measured by the public market valuation of our ordinary shares, declines in relation to the value of our passive assets (such as cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities). If we are a PFIC for any tax year, U.S. holders of our ordinary shares during such year may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liabilities and reporting requirements for such year and succeeding years, even if we are no longer a PFIC in such succeeding years. 21 U.S. residents should carefully read Item 10.E “Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares and the consequences of PFIC status. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, for funding growth. Accordingly, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Two shareholders who are also our senior officers may be able to control us. As of March 31, 2008, Eric Paneth, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Izhak Tamir, our President, each beneficially owned an aggregate of 1,679,267 ordinary shares representing 10.0% of our outstanding ordinary shares, including 480,000 ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of options that are currently vested, of which 60,000 options have no exercise price and 420,000 options have an exercise price of $27.14. Each of Mr. Paneth and Mr. Tamir is an executive officer and member of our Board of Directors. Currently, Messrs. Paneth and Tamir are not party to a shareholders agreement. However, if Messrs. Paneth and Tamir act together, they may have the power to control the outcome of matters submitted for the vote of shareholders, including the approval of significant change in control transactions. The equity interest in Orckit of Mr. Paneth and Mr. Tamir may make certain transactions more difficult and result in delaying or preventing a change in control of us unless approved by one or both of them. Our shareholder bonus rights plan, the potential exchanges of Corrigent options for Orckit options and the super-majority voting requirements in our articles of association may delay, prevent or make more difficult a hostile acquisition of us, which could depress our share price. In November 2001, we adopted a shareholder bonus rights plan pursuant to which share purchase bonus rights were distributed to our shareholders. These rights generally will be exercisable and transferable apart from our ordinary shares only if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our ordinary shares, or commences a tender or exchange offer upon consummation of which that person or group would hold such a beneficial interest. Once these rights become exercisable and transferable, the holders of rights, other than the person or group triggering their transferability, will be generally entitled to purchase our ordinary shares at a discount from the market price. The rights will expire on December 31, 2011. While these rights remain outstanding, they may make an acquisition of us more difficult and result in delaying or preventing a change in control of Orckit. 22 In addition, pursuant to a plan approved by our shareholders at our Annual General Meeting in June 2005, we were permitted to offer holders of vested options to purchase Corrigent common stock at a price of $0.01 per share the opportunity to exchange those options for vested options to purchase our ordinary shares at a price of $0.01 per share. The Corrigent options had been issued to employees and directors of Corrigent and Orckit. Based on the terms of the plan, the number of remaining options for our ordinary shares that could be issued in future exchange for options to purchase Corrigent shares is approximately 500,000. If future exchanges are made based on the assumption that the fair values of Orckit and Corrigent shares are equal, then the exchanges of Corrigent options for options to purchase Orckit’s ordinary shares would result in an expense in our financial statements to the extent that the fair value of Orckit shares exceeds the fair value of Corrigent shares at the time of exchange. The issuance of our shares to holders of Corrigent options could also delay or prevent a change of control in our company. In addition, our articles of association require the approval of the holders of at least 75% of our ordinary shares voting on the matter to remove a director from office and the approval of at least two-thirds of our ordinary shares voting on the matter to elect a director. These requirements could also delay or prevent a change of control of our company. Our stock price has fluctuated significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. Between January 1, 2005 and March 31, 2008, our share price has fluctuated from a low of $4.60 to a high of $31.22. The following factors may cause significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares: — fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings or those of our competitors; — shortfalls in our operating results compared to levels forecast by securities analysts; — announcements concerning us, our competitors or telephone companies; — announcements concerning our customers; — announcements of technological innovations; — the introduction of new products; — changes in product price policies involving us or our competitors; — market conditions in the industry; — the conditions of the securities markets, particularly in the technology and Israeli sectors; and — political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel and world-wide. 23 In addition, stock prices of many technology companies fluctuate significantly for reasons that may be unrelated or disproportionate to operating results. The factors discussed above may depress or cause volatility of our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. Our quarterly results of operations, including revenues, profit and loss and cash flow, have fluctuated significantly in the past, and these fluctuations are expected to continue in 2008 and beyond. Fluctuations in our results of operations may disappoint investors and result in a decline in our share price. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. In some periods, our operating results may be below public expectations or below revenue levels and operating results reached in prior quarters or in the corresponding quarters of the previous year. If this occurs, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. The following factors have affected our quarterly results of operations in the past and are likely to affect our quarterly results of operations in the future: — size and timing of orders, including order deferrals and delayed shipments; — launching of new product generations; — length of approval processes or market testing; — technological changes in the telecommunications industry; — accuracy of telecommunication company, distributor and original equipment manufacturer forecasts of their customers' demands; — changes in our operating expenses; — the timing of approval of government research and development grants; — disruption in our sources of supply; — competitive pricing pressures; — funding required for our operations; — general economic conditions; — terms and conditions of supply agreements with our customers and their impact on our recognition of revenues from these agreements; — determination of the fair value (also known as vendor-specific objective evidence) of some of the services we provide, as well aschanges in our revenue recognition practice as a result of changes in the commercial terms between us and our customers; — determination of the fair value of the conversion feature in our convertible notes; 24 — timely payments of receivables by customers; and — changes in payment terms between us and our suppliers which could accelerate the timing of payments by us and negatively affect our working capital and cash balances. Therefore, the results of any past periods may not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. Our actual financial results might vary from our publicly disclosed financial forecasts. From time to time, we publicly disclose financial forecasts. Our forecasts reflect numerous assumptions concerning our expected performance, as well as other factors which are beyond our control and which might not turn out to be correct. As a result, variations from our forecasts could be material. Our financial results are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report. If our actual financial results are worse than our financial forecasts, the price of our ordinary shares may decline. There may be an adverse effect on the market price of our shares as a result of shares being available for sale in the future. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or pursuant to the exchange of options to purchase Corrigent shares for options to purchase Orckit shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and place that we deem appropriate. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading in more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading on the Nasdaq Global Market, or Nasdaq, and on The Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on Nasdaq and NIS on TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Actual trading volume on the TASE is generally lower than trading volume on Nasdaq, and as such could be subject to higher volatility. The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ, resulting from the factors described above, as well as differences in exchange rates. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. We are subject to ongoing costs and risks associated with complying with extensive corporate governance and disclosure requirements. As a foreign private issuer subject to U.S. federal securities laws, we spend a significant amount of management time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and Nasdaq rules. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these controls by our management and by our independent registered public accounting firm. There is no guarantee that these efforts will result in management assurance or an attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm that our internal control over financial reporting is adequate in future periods. In connection with our compliance with Section 404 and the other applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff, to assure that we continue to comply with these requirements. The additional management attention and costs relating to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other corporate governance requirements could materially and adversely affect our financial results. 25 