Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. The Risk Factors described below include the considerable risks associated with the current economic environment and the related potential adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. You should read these Risk Factors in conjunction with ìManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsî in Item 7 and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Item 8. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report generally because we do not currently perceive them to be material. Those factors could cause results to differ materially from our expectations. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses and expect these losses to continue, at least for the near future. We have experienced significant operating losses since we began operations. We incurred losses from continuing operations before provision for income taxes of $3,738,200 and $7,704,800 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We expect to report an operating loss on a consolidated basis for the year ended December 31, 2014. In subsequent reporting periods, if revenues grow more slowly than anticipated, or if aggregate operating expenses exceed expectations, we will continue to be unprofitable. Even if we become profitable, we may be unable to sustain such profitability. hopTo is subject to the risks of new software products in development and any failure to successfully commercially launch hopTo could have a material negative impact on us. During April 2013 we launched the first public release of hopTo through Apple’s App Store and on November 14, 2013 we launched the first commercial version of hopTo through Apple’s App Store. The releases are targeted at Apple’s tablet devices, the iPad and the iPad Mini. Future releases will be targeted at other devices such as Apple’s iPhone, as well as competing devices such as those based on Google’s Android platform. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop a commercially viable version of our hopTo product, or that we may be able to successfully penetrate into its perceived marketplace. Any failure to develop a commercially viable version or to successfully penetrate into the market could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flow. hopTo is a new product in development. As such it faces both development and market risks. Our development timetable could be adversely impacted by technical challenges that take longer than expected to resolve or third party delays, such as qualification standards imposed by companies such as Apple Inc. in the administration of the Apple app store. Even a successful and timely launch on app stores does not assure wide-scale adoption of a new product given the extremely competitive market for new productivity applications and the changing and difficult to ascertain demands of our target customers and users. In addition, we must develop a successful pricing policy to economically benefit from our development investments. Pricing policies are subject to considerable variation and require a high degree of judgment, and any significant failure to appropriately price our products could limit or even prevent our ability to effectively compete and profit from those products. Our revenue is typically generated from a limited number of significant customers. A material portion of our revenue, all of which is currently derived from our GO-Global products, during any reporting period is typically generated from a limited number of significant customers, all of which are unrelated third parties. We categorize our customers into three broad categories for revenue recognition purposes: stocking resellers, non-stocking resellers and direct end users. If any of our significant non-stocking resellers or direct end users reduce their order level or fail to order during a reporting period, our revenue could be materially adversely impacted because we recognize revenue on sales to these customers upon product delivery, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Our significant stocking resellers are typically ISVs who have bundled our products with theirs to sell as Web-enabled versions of their products. These customers maintain inventories of our products for resale, and we do not recognize revenue until our products are resold to end users, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. If these customers decide to maintain a lower level of inventory in the future and/or they are unable to sell their inventory to end users as quickly as they have in the past, our revenue and business could be materially adversely impacted. 9 If we are unable to develop new products and enhancements to our existing products, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. The market for our products and services is characterized by: ● frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements; ● rapid technological change; ● evolving industry standards; ● fluctuations in customer demand; and ● changes in customer requirements. Our future success depends on our ability to continually enhance our current products and develop and introduce new products that our customers choose to buy. If we are unable to satisfy our customers’ demands and remain competitive with other products that could satisfy their needs by introducing new products and enhancements, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. Our future success could be hindered by, among other factors: ● the amount of cash we have available to fund investment in new products and enhancements; ● delays in our introduction of new products and/or enhancements of existing products; ● delays in market acceptance of new products and/or enhancements of existing products; and ● a competitor’s announcement of new products and/or product enhancements or technologies that could replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing products. For example, sales of our GO-Global Windows Host software could be affected by the announcement from Microsoft of the intended release, and the subsequent actual release, of a new Windows-based operating system, or an upgrade to a previously released Windows-based operating system version. These new or upgraded systems may contain similar features to our products or they could contain architectural changes that would temporarily prevent our products from functioning properly within a Windows-based operating system environment. Our operations consume cash and we will need to raise additional capital in the future to fund our continued operating needs. As of December 31, 2013, our cash balance was $2,430,700, as compared with $3,960,600 as of December 31, 2012, a decrease of $1,529,900, or 38.6%. The decrease primarily resulted from the cash consumed by our operations, as well as the investments we made in fixed assets, capitalized software development costs, and increased employee costs, primarily associated with our new products development team. Such costs were partially offset by the cash received as a result of warrants exercised from warrants issued in a June 17, 2013 Exercise Agreement (the “Exercise Agreement”), cash received from the exercise of warrants by parties to an August 9, 2013 offer to exercise warrants to holders of warrants who were not parties to the Exercise Agreement, and employee stock options. Based on our cash on hand as of December 31, 2013, the cash we anticipate to derive from our legacy GO-Global business, and the $3,390,000 cash proceeds we received from the private placement that we closed during January 2014, we believe that we will have sufficient resources to support our operational plans for the next twelve months; however; full implementation of our business plans for the next twelve months will require capital from issuances of debt or equity, or new revenue from our recently launched hopTo product. There can be no assurance of new revenue from new or existing product lines or additional capital from debt or equity issuances. In addition, issuances of new capital stock would dilute existing stockholders and may give the purchasers of new capital stock additional rights, preferences and privileges relative to existing stockholders. There can be no assurance that additional capital necessary for full execution of our hopTo business strategy will be available on a timely basis, on reasonable terms or at all. 10 Sales of products within our GO-Global product families are likely to be our primary source of revenue during 2014. Although we believe that we will begin to generate revenue through sales of hopTo during 2014, we anticipate that sales of products within our GO-Global product families, and related enhancements, will be our primary source of revenue during 2014. The success, if any, of our new GO-Global releases may depend on a number of factors, including market acceptance of the new GO-Global releases and our ability to manage the risks associated with introducing such releases. Declines in demand for our GO-Global products could occur as a result of, among other factors: ● lack of success with our strategic partners; ● new competitive product releases and updates to existing competitive products; ● decreasing or stagnant information technology spending levels; ● price competition; ● technological changes; or ● general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. If our customers do not continue to purchase GO-Global products as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows would be adversely affected. Our operating results in one or more future periods are likely to fluctuate significantly and may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future on a quarterly and annual basis due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that could cause our operating results and therefore our revenues to fluctuate include the following, among other factors: ● our ability to maximize the revenue opportunities of our patents; ● variations in the size of orders by our customers; ● increased competition; and ● the proportion of overall revenues derived from different sales channels such as distributors, original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and others. In addition, our royalty and license revenues are impacted by fluctuations in OEM licensing activity from quarter to quarter, which may involve one-time orders from non-recurring customers, or customers who order infrequently. Our expense levels are based, in part, on expected future orders and sales; therefore, if orders and sales levels are below expectations, our operating results are likely to be materially adversely affected. Additionally, because significant portions of our expenses are fixed, a reduction in sales levels may disproportionately affect our net income. Also, we may reduce prices and/or increase spending in response to competition or to pursue new market opportunities. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future periods may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would likely be adversely affected. We will encounter challenges in recruiting, hiring and retaining new personnel and/or replacements for any members of key management or other personnel who depart. Our success and business strategy is dependent in large part on our ability to attract and retain key management and other personnel in certain areas of our business. If any of these employees were to leave, we would need to attract and retain replacements for them. We have lost employees, including at the officer level and in our new products engineering group, in the past. Without a successful replacement, the loss of the services of one or more key members of our management group and other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. With the exception of the employment agreement we entered into with our Chief Executive Officer during 2013, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel and any officer or other employee can terminate their relationship with us at any time. We may also need to add key personnel in the future, in order to successfully implement our business strategies. The market for such qualified personnel is highly competitive and it includes other potential employers whose financial resources for such qualified personnel are more substantial than ours. Consequently, we could find it difficult to attract, assimilate or retain such qualified personnel in sufficient numbers to successfully implement our business strategies. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights may adversely affect us. Our commercial success is dependent, in large part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, and on trade secrets and confidentiality provisions and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. These measures afford only limited protection. We cannot assure you that measures we have taken or may take in the future will be adequate to protect us from misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property or other proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that the existence of any proprietary rights will prevent the development of competitive products. The infringement upon, or loss of, any proprietary rights, or the development of competitive products despite such proprietary rights, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 Our business significantly benefits from strategic relationships and there can be no assurance that such relationships will continue in the future. Our business and strategy relies to a significant extent on our strategic relationships with other companies. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or further develop any of these relationships or to replace them in the event any of these relationships are terminated. In addition, any failure to renew or extend any license between any third party and us may adversely affect our business. We rely on indirect distribution channels for our GO-Global products and may not be able to retain existing reseller relationships or to develop new reseller relationships. Our GO-Global products are primarily sold through several distribution channels. An integral part of our strategy is to strengthen our relationships with resellers such as OEMs, systems integrators, VARs, distributors and other vendors to encourage these parties to recommend or distribute our products and to add resellers both domestically and internationally. We currently invest, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources to expand our sales and marketing capabilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and/or retain resellers to market our products effectively. Our inability to attract resellers and the loss of any current reseller relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Additionally, we cannot assure you that resellers will devote enough resources to provide effective sales and marketing support to our products. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive and have more established competitors. The markets we participate in with GO-Global and hopTo are intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to continuous technological changes. We expect competition to increase in each of these markets as other companies introduce additional competitive products. In order to compete effectively, we must continually develop and market new and enhanced products and market those products at competitive prices. As markets for our products continue to develop, additional companies, including companies in the computer hardware, software and networking industries with significant market presence, may enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. A number of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and significantly greater financial, sales, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. We cannot give any assurance that our competitors will not develop and market competitive products that will offer superior price or performance features, or that new competitors will not enter our markets and offer such products. We believe that we will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to remain competitive in the future in each of the markets in which we compete. Such financial resources may not be available to us at the time or times that we need them, or upon terms acceptable to us, or at all. We cannot assure you that we will be able to establish and maintain a significant market position in the face of our competition and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business. Risk Related to Our Common Stock Our stock is thinly traded and its price has been historically volatile. Our stock is thinly traded. As such, holders of our stock are subject to a high risk of illiquidity, e.g., you may not be able to sell as many shares at the price you would like, or you may not be able to purchase as many shares at the price you would like, due to the low average daily trading volume of our stock. Additionally, the market price of our stock has historically been volatile; it has fluctuated significantly to date. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Your investment in our stock could lose some or all of its value. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect its price and our future capital-raising activities, and could involve the issuance of additional equity securities, which would dilute current shareholder investments in our common stock and could result in lowering the trading price of our common stock. We may sell securities in the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. We may issue additional common stock in future financing transactions or as incentive compensation for our management team and other key personnel, consultants and advisors. Issuing any equity securities would be dilutive to the equity interests represented by our then-outstanding shares of common stock. The market price for our common stock could decrease as the market takes into account the dilutive effect of any of these issuances. Furthermore, we may enter into financing transactions and issue securities with rights and preferences senior to the rights and preferences of our common stock, and we may issue securities at prices that represent a substantial discount to the market price of our common stock. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any discounted sale of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. 12 We have a significant number of outstanding warrants and options, and future sales of these shares could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we had outstanding warrants for an aggregate of 16,667,500 and 23,475,000 shares of common stock, respectively, at weighted average exercise prices of $0.46 and $0.25 per share, respectively. As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we had outstanding options exercisable for an aggregate of 12,019,328 and 14,174,000 shares of common stock, respectively, at weighted average exercise prices of $0.21 and $0.20 per share, respectively. The holders may sell these shares exercisable under warrants or options in the public markets from time to time. In addition, as our stock price rises, more outstanding warrants and options will be “in-the-money” and the holders may exercise their warrants and options and sell a large number of shares. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, under the terms of the 2014 Private Placement, we issued 5,650,001 warrants at an exercise price of $0.40 per share. Also, under terms of the 2014 Private Placement, in certain circumstances, if we were to issue new warrants at an exercise price less than $0.40 per share, we would be required to issue additional warrants at a discount. Our common stock is quoted on the FINRA OTC Bulletin Board, which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is currently quoted under the symbol “HPTO” on the FINRA OTC Bulletin Board market (“OTC Bulletin Board”) operated by FINRA (Financial Industry Regulatory Authority) and on the OTC Markets’ QB tier. Neither the OTC Bulletin Board nor the OTC QG tier is a “national securities exchange,” nor do either of them have any listing standards to which we are bound, and in general, each is a significantly more limited market than the markets operated by the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board and the OTC Markets’ QB tier could result in a less liquid market being available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, which could depress the trading price of our common stock and have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. Because of the limited trading market for our common stock, and because of the significant price volatility, investors may not be able to sell their shares of common stock when they want to do so. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock, nor do we anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the operations and expansion of our business. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon the earnings, financial condition, operating results, capital requirements and other factors as deemed necessary by our board of directors. FINRA’s sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA’s requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws and applicable Delaware law may prevent or discourage third parties or our stockholders from attempting to replace our management or influencing significant decisions. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders and providing that stockholders cannot take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), which among other things, and subject to various exceptions, restricts against certain business transactions between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock (“an interested stockholder”) for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder unless our board of directors approved the holder’s acquisition of our stock in advance. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 