Risk Factors WE HAVE INCURRED LOSSES IN THE PAST AND MAY INCUR LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. For the past several years we have reported positive operating results; however, in 2004 we showed break-even results and incurred significant operating losses in the years preceding 2004. Our ability to generate positive operating results are dependent upon many factors and variables including market conditions for our products and services, changing technologies within the medical equipment industry, and competition. Although we have shown improvement in our net operating results over the last six years, there can be no assurances that we will continue to achieve positive operating results in future periods. 9 WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION. The surgical equipment rental and services industry is highly competitive. Our operations compete with services provided by numerous local, regional and national equipment and service providers. Certain of these competitors are larger or have far greater financial resources than us. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition, which could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. OUR CORE BUSINESS IN MOBILE SURGICAL SERVICES HAS BEEN VERY PRICE COMPETITIVE. The market for our services and equipment is highly competitive. Competitors often compete by lowering prices, thus impacting profit margins. We can provide no assurances that we will be successful (profitable) in a highly competitive market. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO ADVERSE CHANGES IN GOVERNMENT REGULATION. Many aspects of our business in delivering surgical equipment and related services may be impacted by changes in federal and state regulations. We could encounter difficulties in meeting the requirements of new or changing regulations. In addition, certain of our customers are subject to the Medicare reimbursement rules and regulations as well as similar state-level regulations. Our business could be negatively impacted if such customers were found to be non-compliant with such regulations and/or ineligible for such reimbursements. NEW GOVERNMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS During 2009 the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) issued a rule that amended regulations that implement the Stark Law. Under the rule, effective October 1, 2009, certain physician-owned ventures (including laser and cryotherapy limited liability companies managed by PRI) will not be permitted to contract with hospitals for the lease of space or equipment under a per-procedure or per-click payment arrangement if an LLC investor is a physician practicing at the hospital. CMS has also issued an answer in the form of a “Frequently Asked Question” on its website, where it indicates that the provision of lithotripsy services may be considered a service contract and not a lease of space or equipment. Thus, according to the FAQ advice from CMS, our lithotripsy LLCs (even if they have physician investors) may continue to contract with hospitals on a per-procedure payment basis so long as the contract is a service arrangement rather than a leasing arrangement. If the LLC provides a technician and related support when providing lithotripsy services, we believe such arrangement is a service arrangement. We have made changes to our LLCs as a result of the new rules. In this regard, we have dissolved and/or restructured several of our LLCs. Although we believe these dissolutions and restructurings will not have a material adverse affect on us, we cannot give you any assurance that they will not have a material adverse effect on our future operations, relationships with physicians, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, this new rule may make new investments by physicians or other investors in our existing or future LLCs less attractive. During 2010, we did not participate in the formation of any new LLCs. We are unable to fully asses s the extent to which the new rule will affect our future ability to attract new investors. However, if the new rule should have a negative effect on our current investor relationships, then our operations and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 10 WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTIES IN ESTABLISHING SERVICE CAPABILITIES WITH NEW MEDICAL DEVICES UNRELATED TO OUR CURRENT BUSINESS. Establishing a market presence with new technologies may require us to build new sales and support infrastructure. We may have difficulty hiring the appropriate personnel and establishing the necessary relationships with equipment vendors and others for us to successfully penetrate any new market. OUR INDUSTRY IS UNPREDICTABLE AND CHARACTERIZED BY RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES AND EVOLVING STANDARDS, AND, IF WE FAIL TO ADDRESS CHANGING MARKET CONDITIONS, OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS WILL BE HARMED. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our equipment could quickly become obsolete due to new technological developments in medical devices. This could lead to a significant financial impact since most of our equipment is generally financed and depreciated over a period of several years. Because this market is subject to rapid change, it is difficult to predict our potential size or future growth rate. Our success in generating revenues in this market will depend on, among other things: · maintaining and enhancing our relationships with customers; · the education of potential customers about the benefits of our products and services; and · our ability to accurately predict and obtain new products, services and technologies to meet industry standards. We cannot assure you that our expenditures for the acquisition of new products and technologies will result in their introduction or, if such products or technologies are introduced, that they or the related services will achieve sufficient market acceptance. We may need to expend significant resources to acquire new products and services in the future, which may adversely impact our profitability. However, the failure to make such expenditures to address rapid technological changes in the industry could adversely affect our business. FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETE AND MANAGE GROWTH STRATEGIES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, PROFITABILITY AND GROWTH PROSPECTS. Part of our growth strategy may include future acquisitions and alliances involving complementary products, services, technologies and businesses. If we are unable to overcome the potential problems and inherent risks related to such acquisitions and alliances, our business, profitability and growth prospects could suffer. Our ability to expand successfully through acquisitions and alliances depends on many factors, including our ability to identify appropriate prospects and negotiate and close transactions. Even if future acquisitions or alliances are completed: · we could fail to select the best acquisition or alliance partners; · we could fail to effectively plan and manage acquisition or alliance strategies; · management’s attention could be diverted by other business concerns; · we could encounter problems integrating the acquired or allied operations, technologies or products; and · the acquisition or alliance could have adverse effects on our existing business relationships with suppliers and/or customers. Many companies compete for acquisition and alliance opportunities in our industry. Some of our competitors are companies that have significantly greater financial and management resources than us. This may reduce the likelihood that we will be successful in completing alliances necessary to the future success of our business. 11 Possible growth in the number of employees and in sales, combined with the challenges of managing geographically dispersed operations, may place a significant strain on our management systems and resources. We expect that we will need to continue to improve our information technology systems, financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and continue to expand, train and manage our work force. The failure to effectively manage growth could disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results. SOME OF OUR PRODUCTS ARE COMPLEX IN DESIGN AND MAY CONTAIN DEFECTS THAT ARE NOT DETECTED UNTIL DEPLOYED BY CUSTOMERS, WHICH COULD INCREASE OUR COSTS AND REDUCE OUR REVENUES. Many of our products are inherently complex in design and require ongoing regular maintenance. As a result of the technical complexity of the equipment and certain fibers and other products used in the delivery of our services, changes in our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by such suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable product reliability. To the extent that such product reliability is not achieved, we could experience, among other things: · damage to our business reputation; · loss of customers; · failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; · diversion of resources; and · legal actions by customers. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could seriously harm our business, our financial condition and results of operations. IF WE LOSE SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND KEY EMPLOYEES ON WHOM WE DEPEND, OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER. We have employment contracts with our Chief Executive Officer, and President and Chief Operating Officer who are considered key employees of the Company. We currently do not have “key-person” life insurance policies to cover the lives of executive officers or any other key employees. The ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining our future success. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill current or future needs. If we cannot recruit, train, retain and effectively manage key employees, our business, profitability and growth prospects could suffer. WE MAY NEED SUBSTANTIAL ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO ACHIEVE OUR STRATEGIC GOALS. Much of our future growth and our ability to meet existing debt, lease and vendor obligations depend upon our ability to expand our customer base and on our ability to acquire new technologies related to medical surgical equipment. Such endeavors may require additional capital resources in addition to cash from operations. These initiatives may require us to raise significant sums of additional capital, which may or may not be available. In addition, raising additional capital may result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. We can provide no assurances that such financing will be available to us in the future on satisfactory terms, if at all. 12 PAST TRADING MARKET FOR OUR SHARES HAS BEEN SPORADIC. In the past, there was a limited and at times sporadic public market for our Shares. While our Shares are currently traded on the NYSE Alternext US LLC under the symbol “LZR,” we can provide no assurances that an established public market for our Shares will continue in the future. THE PRICE OF OUR SHARES MAY FLUCTUATE. The market price of our Shares may be as highly volatile, or more so, as the stock market in general or, for that of micro cap stocks, and the technology sector more specifically. Stockholders may have difficulty selling their Shares following periods of such volatility due to the market's adverse reaction to such volatility. Many of the factors leading to such volatility are well beyond our control and could include: · conditions and trends in our industry; · changes in the market valuation of companies similar to us; · actual or expected variations in our operating results; · announcements by us or our competitors of the development of new products or technologies or · strategic alliances or acquisitions; and · changes in members of our senior management or other key employees. These and other factors may adversely affect the price of our Shares, regardless of its future operating results and we cannot assure you that our Shares will trade at prices similar to the capital stock of our competitors or other similar companies. WE MAY EXPERIENCE QUARTERLY AND ANNUAL FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS IN THE FUTURE, WHICH MAKES OUR PAST PERFORMANCE AN UNRELIABLE INDICATION OF FUTURE PERFORMANCE. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year in the future. A number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, may cause these variations, including: · fluctuations in demand for our products and services; · the introduction of new products, services or technologies by competitors, entry of new competitors, pricing pressures and other competitive factors; · our ability to obtain and introduce new surgical equipment products, services and technologies in a timely manner; · the rate of market acceptance of any new surgical equipment products or services that we offer; · delays or reductions in customer orders of our products and services in anticipation of the introduction of new or enhanced products and services by our competitors or us; · our ability to control expenses; · obsolescence of our existing equipment; · the timing of regulatory approvals and changes in domestic and regulatory environments; · the level of capital spending of our customers; · costs related to acquisitions or alliances, if any; and · general economic conditions. 13 POSSIBLE INABILITY TO PAY CASH DIVIDENDS IN THE FUTURE. For each of the past six fiscal years, we have declared an annual cash dividend ranging from $0.10 per Share to $0.40 per Share, with an additional one-time special dividend of $0.50 per Share paid together with the annual dividend of $0.40 per Share paid on January 4, 2011. Our Board of Directors will determine our future dividend policy on the basis of various factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, investment and acquisition opportunities and the potential availability of outside capital in the financial markets. Further, our bank covenants with our primary lender may prohibit or restrict our ability to pay cash dividends in future periods. We can give no assurances that cash or other dividends will be declared and paid in future periods. Due to these and other factors, we believe that our operating results in future quarters and years may differ from expectations, and quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our past operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any quarter or year as an indication of future performance. Item 1.B Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 