ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a number of substantial risks. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and they should be considered in connection with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors should be read together with the other items in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Item 1. "Business” and Item 7. "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” Difficult economic conditions could harm our business. Global economic conditions continue to be challenging. Although the economy appears to be recovering in some countries, it is not possible for us to predict the extent and timing of any improvement in global economic conditions. Even with continued growth in many of our markets during this period, the economic downturn could adversely impact our business in the future by causing a decline in demand for our products, particularly if the economic conditions are prolonged or worsen. In addition, such economic conditions may adversely impact access to capital for us and our suppliers, may decrease our distributors' ability to obtain or maintain credit cards, and may otherwise adversely impact our operations and overall financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could impact our financial results. In 2011, approximately 88% of our sales occurred in markets outside of the United States in each market’s respective local currency. We purchase inventory primarily in the United States in U.S. dollars. In preparing our financial statements, we translate revenue and expenses in our markets outside the United States from their local currencies into U.S. dollars using weighted average exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, particularly the Japanese yen, which accounted for approximately 27% of 2011 revenue, our reported revenue, gross profit and net income will likely be reduced. Foreign currency fluctuations, particularly with respect to the Japanese yen given the amount of yen denominated debt on our balance sheet, can also result in losses and gains resulting from translation of foreign currency denominated balances on our balance sheet. Given the complex global political and economic dynamics that affect exchange rate fluctuations, it is difficult to predict future fluctuations and the effect these fluctuations may have upon future reported results or our overall financial condition. Although our distributors are independent contractors, improper distributor actions that violate laws or regulations could harm our business. Distributor activities that violate applicable laws or regulations could result in government or third party actions against us, which could harm our business. Except in China, our distributors are not employees and act independently of us. The most significant area of risk for such activities relates to improper product claims and claims regarding the business opportunity of being a distributor. We implement strict policies and procedures to ensure our distributors will comply with legal requirements. However, given the size of our distributor force, we experience problems with distributors from time to time. For example, product claims made by some of our distributors in 1990 and 1991 led to an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) in the United States, which resulted in our entering into a consent decree with the FTC. In addition, rulings by the South Korean Federal Trade Commission and by judicial authorities against us and other companies in South Korea indicate that vicarious liability may be imposed on us for the criminal activity of our distributors. In addition, we have seen an increase in sales aids and promotional material being produced by distributors and distributor groups in some markets, which places an increased burden on us to monitor compliance of such materials and increases the risk that such materials could contain problematic product or marketing claims in violation of our policies and applicable regulations. As we expand internationally, our distributors often attempt to anticipate which markets we will open in the future and begin marketing and sponsoring activities in markets where we are not qualified to conduct business. We could face fines or other legal action if our distributors violate applicable laws and regulations. - 23 - If we are unable to retain our existing distributors and recruit additional distributors, our revenue will not increase and may even decline. We distribute almost all of our products through our distributors and we depend on them to generate virtually all of our revenue. Our distributors may terminate their services at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience high turnover among distributors from year to year. Distributors who join to purchase our products for personal consumption or for short-term income goals frequently only stay with us for a short time. Executive distributors who have committed time and effort to build a sales organization will generally stay for longer periods. Distributors have highly variable levels of training, skills and capabilities. As a result, in order to maintain sales and increase sales in the future, we need to increase our retention of existing distributors and continue to successfully recruit additional distributors. To increase our revenue, we must increase the number of and/or the productivity of our distributors. We have experienced periodic declines in both active distributors and executive distributors in the past and could experience such declines again in the future. If our initiatives for 2012 do not drive growth in our distributor numbers, particularly in Japan, the United States and Europe where we have experienced some softness in our sponsoring and distributors numbers, our operating results could be harmed. While we take many steps to help train, motivate, and retain distributors, we cannot accurately predict how the number and productivity of distributors may fluctuate because we rely primarily upon our distributor leaders to recruit, train, and motivate new distributors. Our operating results could be harmed if we and our distributor leaders do not generate sufficient interest in our business to retain existing distributors and attract new distributors. The number and productivity of our distributors could be harmed by several additional factors, including: • any adverse publicity regarding us, our products, our distribution channel, or our competitors; • lack of interest in, or the technical failure of, existing or new products; • lack of a compelling sponsoring story that generates interest for potential new distributors and effectively draws them into the business; • any negative public perception of our products and their ingredients; • any negative public perception of our distributors and direct selling businesses in general; • our actions to enforce our policies and procedures; • any regulatory actions or charges against us or others in our industry; • general economic and business conditions; and • potential saturation or maturity levels in a given country or market which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain distributors in such market. - 24 - Because our Japanese operations account for a significant part of our business, continued weakness in our business operations in Japan could harm our business. Approximately 27% of our 2011 revenue was generated in Japan. We have experienced local currency revenue declines in Japan over the last several years and continue to face challenges in this market. These declines could continue or increase. Factors that could impact our results in the market include: • continued or increased levels of regulatory and media scrutiny and any regulatory actions taken by regulators, or any adoption of more restrictive regulations, in response to such scrutiny; • significant weakening of the Japanese yen; • increased regulatory constraints with respect to the claims we can make regarding the efficacy of products and tools, which could limit our ability to effectively market them; • risks that the initiatives we have implemented in Japan, which are patterned after successful initiatives implemented in other markets, will not have the same level of success in Japan, may not generate renewed growth or increased productivity among our distributors, and may cost more or require more time to implement than we have anticipated; • inappropriate activities by our distributors and any resulting regulatory actions against us or our distributors; • improper practices of other direct selling companies or their distributors that increase regulatory and media scrutiny of our industry; • any weakness in the economy or consumer confidence; and • increased competitive pressures from other direct selling companies and their distributors who actively seek to solicit our distributors to join their businesses. Regulatory scrutiny of the direct selling industry in Japan could harm our business if we are not able to successfully limit the number of general inquiries and complaints regarding our business received by consumer protection centers. We continue to experience a high level of regulatory scrutiny of the direct selling industry in Japan. Several direct sellers in Japan have been penalized for actions of distributors that violated applicable regulations, including one prominent international direct selling company that was suspended from sponsoring activities for three months in 2008, and another large Japanese direct selling company that was suspended from sponsoring activities for six months in 2009. In addition, some Japanese lawmakers have experienced political pressure to discontinue supporting the direct selling industry. We also continue to experience a high level of general inquiries and complaints to consumer protection centers in Japan and have taken steps to try to resolve these issues including providing additional training to distributors, and restructuring our compliance group in Japan. We have seen improvements in some prefectures, but not in others. We have received warnings from consumer centers in certain prefectures raising concerns about our distributor training and number of general inquiries and complaints. Although we are implementing additional steps to reinforce our distributor education and training in Japan to help address these concerns, we cannot be sure that such steps will be successful. If consumer complaints and inquiries escalate to a government review or if the current level of complaints and inquiries does not improve, there is an increased likelihood that regulators could take action against us, including a suspension of our sponsoring activities, or we could receive negative media attention, either of which could harm our business. In 2009, Japan implemented a national organization of consumer protection centers, which has further increased scrutiny of our business and industry. - 25 - If direct selling regulations in China are modified, interpreted or enforced in a manner that results in negative changes to our business model or the imposition of a range of potential penalties, our business would be significantly negatively impacted. The government of China has adopted direct selling regulations that impose significant restrictions and limitations on the way we do business. Most notably, the regulations include a restriction on the use of multi-level compensation of individual direct sellers, which is the basis of how we compensate sales people outside of China. We have structured our business model in China based on several factors: our interpretation of applicable regulations, the guidance we have received from government officials, our understanding of the practices of other international direct selling companies operating in China, and our understanding as to how regulators are enforcing the regulations. We have designed a hybrid business model in China where we operate with both independent direct sellers who can sell away from our stores as well as contractual sales promoters who can progress through various leadership positions in our sales organization and become employed sales representatives once they have achieved designated performance levels. We have adopted this hybrid business structure because we believe it provides us with more flexibility in how we compensate our sales leaders in China, enabling us to compensate them at a level that is competitive with other direct selling companies in the market and reflective of the compensation of our distributor sales leaders globally. The nature of the political, regulatory and legal systems in China gives regulatory agencies at both the local and central levels of government broad discretion to interpret and enforce regulations in a fashion that promotes social order. We face a risk that regulators may change the way in which they currently interpret and enforce the direct selling regulations. If our business practices are found to be in violation of applicable regulations as they may be interpreted or enforced in the future, in particular our use of the sales productivity of a sales leader and the sales promoters and employees he/she leads and supervises in setting his/her quarterly compensation level, then we could be forced to change our business model and/or sanctioned, either of which could significantly harm our business. Our operations in China are subject to significant government scrutiny, and we could be subject to fines or other penalties if our employees or direct sellers engage in activities that violate applicable laws and regulations. We work diligently to train our sales force in China on how our China business model differs from our global business model. But because there are often foreign sales leaders performing training in China and because our global model varies significantly from our China business model, confusion can result as to how those working in China should promote the business in China. This confusion may lead to governmental reviews and investigations of our operations in China. The legal system in China provides governmental authorities with broad latitude to conduct investigations. We anticipate that our business will continue to attract significant governmental scrutiny, particularly as our business grows and the number of sales employees and contractual sales promoters continues to increase. While we have been able to resolve past investigations and have only been required to pay fines in a limited number of instances, all between 2002 and 2007, we face a risk that future investigations may result in fines or other more significant sanctions. If we are unable to obtain additional necessary national and local government approvals in China our ability to expand our business could be negatively impacted. We have completed the required national and local licensing processes for direct selling activities in various locations in China, including major cities or districts in ten provinces and three municipalities. In order to expand our direct selling model into additional provinces, we currently must obtain a series of approvals from district, city, provincial and national government agencies with respect to each province in which we wish to expand. The process for obtaining the necessary government approvals to conduct direct selling continues to evolve and is lengthy, as we are required to work with a large number of provincial, city, district and national government authorities. The complexity of the approval process as well as the government’s continued cautious approach as direct selling develops in China makes it difficult to predict the timeline for obtaining these approvals. If the results of the government’s evaluation of our direct selling activities result in further delays in obtaining licenses elsewhere, or if the current processes for obtaining approvals are delayed further for any reason or are changed or are interpreted differently than currently understood, our ability to receive direct selling licenses in China and our growth prospects in this market, could be negatively impacted. - 26 - We also face lengthy timelines with respect to product registrations in China. For nutrition products in particular the registration process is laborious. The process for obtaining product permits and licenses may require extended periods of time that may prevent us from being able to launch product initiatives in China on the same timelines as other markets around the world. If we are unable to effectively manage our rapid growth in China, our operations could be harmed. We have experienced rapid growth in China, which could strain our ability to effectively manage our operations. We continue to focus resources to successfully manage the necessary expansion of our management team, labor force, manufacturing operations, government relations efforts, and stores and service centers. Insufficient management of such growth could result in, among other things, product delays, operating mistakes and errors, inadequate customer service, inappropriate claims or promotions by sales employees, and governmental inquires and investigations, all of which could harm our revenue and ability to generate sustained growth and result in unanticipated expenses. If our Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner or ageLOC Galvanic Spa Systems, including our recently launched ageLOC Galvanic Body Spa are determined to be medical devices in a particular geographic market or if our distributors use these products for medical purposes or make improper medical claims, our ability to continue to market and distribute such tools could be harmed. One of our strategies is to market unique and innovative products and tools that allow our distributors to distinguish our products, including our ageLOC Galvanic Spa Systems and our Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner. We do not believe these products are medical devices. However, we have faced regulatory inquiries in Japan, South Korea, Indonesia, Taiwan, Singapore, Thailand, Colombia and the United States regarding our Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner and/or our ageLOC Galvanic Spa Systems. While we have successfully worked with regulators to resolve these matters in some markets, we have not been able to market our ageLOC Galvanic Spa Systems as cosmetic devices in Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand and Colombia, due to similar regulatory restrictions that have required us to register our ageLOC Galvanic Spa Systems as medical devices. There have also been legislative proposals in Singapore and Malaysia relating to the regulation of medical devices that could affect the way we market our ageLOC Galvanic Spa Systems and our Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner in these countries. In 2011, a shipment of ageLOC Galvanic Spa System II units into the United States was detained upon import pending a classification review by the Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”). The matter is still under review and we may elect to limit importation of ageLOC Galvanic Spa System II units into the United States until this review is complete. Any determination by the FDA in the United States or by a regulatory authority in another market that our ageLOC Galvanic Spa Systems must be registered as medical devices could inhibit or restrict our ability to market these products in such market until such registration is obtained, which could harm our business. In addition, if our distributors are using these products to make medical claims or perform medical diagnoses or other activities limited to licensed professionals or approved medical devices, it could negatively impact our ability to market or sell these products. Regulatory scrutiny of a product could also dampen distributor enthusiasm and hinder the ability of distributors to effectively utilize such product. - 27 - Where necessary, obtaining medical device registrations could require us to provide documentation concerning product manufacturing and clinical utility and to make design, specification and manufacturing process modifications to meet stringent standards imposed on medical device companies. There can be no assurance we will be able to provide the required medical device documentation, prove clinical utility in a manner sufficient to obtain medical device approval or make such changes promptly or in a manner that is satisfactory to regulatory authorities. If we obtain such medical device approval in order to sell a product in one market, such approval may be used as precedent to a claim that similar approval should be required in another market or negatively impact our ability to import and export our ageLOC Galvanic Spa Systems as cosmetic devices in markets where such approvals are not currently required. Laws and regulations may prohibit or severely restrict our direct sales efforts and cause our revenue and profitability to decline, and regulators could adopt new regulations that harm our business. Various government agencies throughout the world regulate direct sales practices. Laws and regulations in Japan, South Korea and China are particularly restrictive and difficult. These laws and regulations are generally intended to prevent fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as “pyramid” schemes, that compensate participants for recruiting additional participants irrespective of product sales, use high pressure recruiting methods and/or do not involve legitimate products. The laws and regulations in our current markets often: • impose order cancellations, product returns, inventory buy-backs and cooling-off rights for consumers and distributors; • require us or our distributors to register with government agencies; • impose caps on the amount of commissions we can pay; and/or • require us to ensure that distributors are not being compensated based upon the recruitment of new distributors. Complying with these widely varying and sometimes inconsistent rules and regulations can be difficult and may require the devotion of significant resources on our part. If we are unable to continue business in existing markets or commence operations in new markets because of these laws, our revenue and profitability may decline. To comply with legal limitations on commissions in South Korea, we were required to reduce the commissions paid to our top distributors in that market in December 2011, due in part to substantial sales of products introduced in connection with our global convention. Our business could be harmed in South Korea if we are required to make further commission reductions in order to comply with legal limitations on commissions in the future. In addition, countries where we currently do business could change their laws or regulations to negatively affect or completely prohibit direct sales efforts. Challenges to the form of our network marketing system could harm our business. We may be subject to challenges by government regulators and third parties in civil actions regarding the form of our network marketing system. Legal and regulatory requirements concerning our industry involve a high level of subjectivity and are inherently fact-based and subject to interpretation, which provides regulators with more discretion in their application of these laws and regulations. We have seen heightened government scrutiny of our industry in various markets, including Japan, South Korea, China, Europe, and the United Kingdom. From time to time, we receive formal and informal inquiries from various government regulatory authorities about our business and our compliance with local laws and regulations. For example, in 2009, Belgium authorities alleged that we violated the anti-pyramid regulations in that market and the Hungary Consumer Protection Agency opened an inquiry regarding various marketing claims. We have worked with these local authorities to resolve these matters. However, we are aware that in an unrelated matter involving another direct selling company, a court in Belgium recently held that such direct selling company violated Belgium’s anti-pyramid regulations. If authorities in Belgium find the ruling more restrictive than their current interpretation of the anti-pyramid regulations, we may face a similar determination. We are aware of several civil actions that have been taken against some of our competitors in the United States, including one in which a significant settlement has been proposed. - 28 - If we are not able to resolve existing regulatory reviews to the satisfaction of the applicable governmental agencies, or there are any new regulatory or civil actions challenges regarding our business or others in our industry, our business could be harmed if such actions result in the imposition of any fines or damages on our business, create adverse publicity, increase scrutiny of our industry, detrimentally affect our efforts to recruit or motivate distributors and attract customers, or interpret laws in a manner inconsistent with our current business practices. Government regulations relating to the marketing and advertising of our products and services may restrict, inhibit or delay our ability to sell our products and harm our business. Our products and our related marketing and advertising efforts are subject to numerous domestic and foreign government agencies’ and authorities’ laws and extensive regulations, which govern the ingredients and products that may be marketed without pre-market approval and/or registration as a drug and the claims that may be made regarding such products. Many of these laws and regulations involve a high level of subjectivity, are inherently fact-based and subject to interpretation, and vary significantly from market to market. These laws and regulations can limit the claims we can make regarding our products and often restrict our ability to introduce products or ingredients into one or more markets. In Europe for example, we are unable to market supplements that contain ingredients that were not marketed prior to May 1997 in Europe (“novel foods”) without going through an extensive registration and pre-market approval process. In addition, there has been increased regulatory scrutiny of nutritional supplements and marketing claims under existing and new regulations. At times these laws and regulations may prevent us from launching a product in a market, require us to reformulate a product or limit the claims made regarding a product. For example, in 2010 and 2011, the introduction and launch of our ageLOC Vitality were delayed in certain markets in Europe due to regulatory issues. If these laws and regulations further restrict, inhibit or delay our ability to introduce or market our products or limit the claims we are able to make regarding our products, our business may be harmed. During recent years, authorities’ enforcement activity and interpretation of these regulations suggest a greater allowance for scientific-based and substantiated claims when not involving specific drug or disease claims. As a result, as companies have developed new and innovative products, there has been a trend towards more aggressive claims and the inclusion of greater science regarding the marketing of cosmetic and nutritional products. We believe in order to remain competitive we need to have similarly compelling claims. Because there is a degree of subjectivity in determining whether marketing materials or statements constitute product claims and whether they involve improper drug claims, our claims and our interpretation of applicable regulations may be challenged, which could harm our business. This is a particular risk with respect to our ageLOC line of products based on our novel approach to these products and our focus on genes and sources of aging in both our scientific explanation for support of our products as well as our marketing claims. If regulators take a more restrictive stance regarding such claims, alter their enforcement priorities, or determine that any of our claims violate applicable regulations, we could be fined or forced to modify our claims or stop selling a product. - 29 - New regulations governing the marketing and sale of nutritional supplements could harm our business. There has been an increasing movement in the United States and other markets to increase the regulation of dietary supplements, which could impose additional restrictions or requirements in the future. In the United States, for example, some legislators and industry critics continue to push for increased regulatory authority by the FDA over nutritional supplements. Our business could be harmed if more restrictive legislation is successfully introduced and adopted in the future. For example, the FDA has proposed draft guidance for the industry to clarify the FDA's interpretation of the dietary ingredient notification requirements. This draft guidance is not final but appears to indicate that the FDA is expanding its definition of what is considered a “new dietary ingredient” in the United States. The industry is providing comments and working with the FDA to modify this guidance, however, if enacted in final form as proposed this guidance could impose new and significant regulatory barriers for our nutritional supplement products, many of which could delay or inhibit our ability to formulate, introduce and sell nutritional supplements as we have in the past. We face similar pressures in our other markets, including Europe, which is expected to adopt additional regulations setting new limits on acceptable maximum levels of vitamins and minerals. In the United States, effective December 1, 2009, the FTC approved revisions to its Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising, or Guides, that require disclosure of material connections between an endorser and the company they are endorsing and do not allow marketing using atypical results. Our distributors have historically used testimonials and “before and after” photos to market and sell some of our popular products such as our ageLOC Galvanic Spa Systems and ageLOC Transformation anti-aging skin care system. The alterations we have made to our marketing materials to conform to the requirements and restrictions of the revised Guides may diminish the impact of our marketing efforts and negatively impact our sales results. If we or our distributors fail to comply with these Guides, the FTC could bring an enforcement action against us and we could be fined and/or forced to further alter our marketing materials. Our operations also could be harmed if new laws or regulations are enacted that restrict our ability to market or distribute nutritional supplements or impose additional burdens or requirements on nutritional supplement companies or require us to reformulate our products. Regulations governing the production and marketing of our personal care products could harm our business. Our personal care products are subject to various domestic and foreign laws and regulations that regulate cosmetic products and set forth regulations for determining whether a product can be marketed as a “cosmetic” or requires further approval as an over-the-counter drug. A determination that our cosmetic products impact the structure or function of the human body, or improper marketing claims by our distributors may lead to a determination that such products require pre-market approval as a drug. Such regulations in any given market can limit our ability to import products and can delay product launches as we go through the registration and approval process for those products. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could face enforcement action against us and we could be fined, forced to alter or stop selling our products and/or required to adjust our operations. Our operations also could be harmed if new laws or regulations are enacted that restrict our ability to market or distribute our personal care products or impose additional burdens or requirements on the contents of our personal care products or require us to reformulate our products. - 30 - If we are found not to be in compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices our operations could be harmed. In the United States, FDA regulations on Good Manufacturing Practices and Adverse Event Reporting requirements for the nutritional supplement industry require us and our vendors to maintain good manufacturing processes, including stringent vendor qualifications, ingredient identification, manufacturing controls and record keeping. The ingredient identification requirement, which requires us to confirm the levels, identity and potency of ingredients listed on our product labels within a narrow range, is particularly burdensome and difficult for us with respect to a product like LifePak Nano, which contains as many as 36 different ingredients. We are also required to report serious adverse events associated with consumer use of our products. Our operations could be harmed if regulatory authorities make determinations that we or our vendors are not in compliance with these regulations or public reporting of adverse events harms our reputation for quality and safety. A finding of noncompliance may result in administrative warnings, penalties or actions impacting our ability to continue selling certain of our products. In addition, compliance with these regulations has increased and may further increase the cost of manufacturing certain of our products as we work with our vendors to assure they are qualified and in compliance. The loss of suppliers or shortages in ingredients could harm our business. We acquire ingredients and products from two suppliers that each currently manufactures a significant portion of our Nu Skin personal care products. In addition, we currently rely on two suppliers for a majority of Pharmanex nutritional supplement products. In the event we were to lose any of these suppliers and experience any difficulties in finding or transitioning to alternative suppliers, this could harm our business. In addition, we obtain some of our products, including our ageLoc Galvanic Spa systems, from sole suppliers that own or control the product formulations, ingredients, or other intellectual property rights associated with such products. We also license the right to distribute some of our products from third parties. In the event we are unable to renew these contracts, we may need to discontinue some products or develop substitute products, which could harm our revenue. In addition, if we experience supply shortages or regulatory impediments with respect to the raw materials and ingredients we use in our products, we may need to seek alternative supplies or suppliers and may experience difficulties in finding ingredients that are comparable in quality and price. Some of our nutritional products, including g3 juice, incorporate natural products that are only harvested once a year and may have limited supplies. If demand exceeds forecasts, we may have difficulties in obtaining additional supplies to meet the excess demand until the next growing season. If we are unable to successfully respond to such issues, our business could be harmed. Product diversion to certain markets, including China, may have a negative impact on our business. From time to time, we see our product being sold through online or other distribution channels in certain markets. Although we have taken steps to try to control this activity for products sold in China, this issue continues to be a significant challenge. Product diversion causes confusion regarding our distribution channels and negatively impacts our distributors’ ability to retail our products. It also creates a negative impression regarding the viability of the business opportunity for our distributors and sales representatives, which can harm our ability to recruit new distributors and sales representatives. In addition, in some cases, product diversion schemes may also involve illegal importation, investment or other activities. If we are unable to effectively address this issue or if diversion increases, our business could be harmed. - 31 - Changes to our distributor compensation arrangements could be viewed negatively by some distributors, could fail to achieve desired long-term results and have a negative impact on revenue. Our distributor compensation plan includes some components that differ from market to market. We modify components of our compensation plan from time to time in an attempt to keep our compensation plan competitive and attractive to existing and potential distributors, to address changing market dynamics, to provide incentives to distributors that we believe will help grow our business, to conform to local regulations and to address other business needs. Because of the size of our distributor force and the complexity of our compensation plans, it is difficult to predict how such changes will be viewed by distributors and whether such changes will achieve their desired results. For example, certain changes we made to our compensation plan in the past, which had been successful in several markets, did not achieve anticipated results in Japan, China and certain markets in Southeast Asia and negatively impacted our business. Production difficulties, quality control problems and inaccurate forecasting could harm our business. Production difficulties and quality control problems and our reliance on third party suppliers to deliver quality products in a timely manner could harm our business. Occasionally, we have experienced production difficulties with respect to our products, including the import or export of ingredients and delivery of products that do not meet our specifications and quality control standards. These quality problems have resulted in the past, and could result in the future, in stock outages or shortages in our markets with respect to such products, harming our sales and creating inventory write-offs for unusable products. Our method of launching new products globally on a condensed schedule has increased pressure on our supply chain. If we are not able to accurately forecast sales levels on a market by market basis, or are unable to produce a sufficient supply to meet such demand globally, we may incur higher expedited shipping costs and we may experience stockouts, which could negatively impact the enthusiasm of our distributors. However, if we over forecast demand for a global product launch, we could incur increased write-offs. Adverse publicity concerning our business, marketing plan, products or people could harm our business and reputation. The size of our distribution force and the results of our operations can be particularly impacted by adverse publicity regarding us, the nature of our distributor network, our products or the actions of our distributors and employees. Specifically, we are susceptible to adverse publicity concerning: • suspicions about the legality and ethics of network marketing; • the safety or effectiveness of ingredients in our or our competitors' products; • regulatory investigations of us, our competitors and our respective products; • the actions of our current or former distributors and employees; and • public perceptions of the direct selling industry or the nutritional or personal care industry generally. - 32 - For example, in 2010 we received a 60-day notice from a consumer group in California of its intent to file a citizen enforcement action under California Proposition 65, alleging that we failed to warn consumers of exposure to lead in four of our products. We are aware that a number of other nutritional companies have received similar notices and withdrawals from the same group. In 2010, we also received a letter from the California Attorney General, alleging that one of our products contained lead in excess of the level allowed under California Proposition 65. If one or more of these products is found to be in violation of California Proposition 65, we may be required to reformulate the product, label the product in compliance with California Proposition 65 or, at our election, discontinue selling the product in California. We may also be required to pay civil fines. Although we believe we are in compliance with the requirements of California Proposition 65, any negative media attention or other adverse publicity created by these allegations, or any new or additional allegations, could negatively impact consumer and distributor perceptions of our products and harm our business. In addition, in the past we have experienced negative publicity that has harmed our business in connection with regulatory investigations and inquiries. Critics of our industry and other individuals who want to pursue an agenda, have in the past and may in the future utilize the internet, the press and other means to publish criticisms of the industry, our company and our competitors, or make allegations regarding our business and operations, or the business and operations of our competitors. We or others in our industry may receive similar negative publicity or allegations in the future, and it may harm our business and reputation. Non-compliance with anti-corruption laws could harm our business. Our international operations are subject to anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”). Any allegations that we are not in compliance with anti-corruption laws may require us to dedicate time and resources to an internal investigation of the allegations or may result in a government investigation. Any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with existing anti-corruption laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, and other penalties. Although we have implemented anti-corruption policies, controls and training globally to protect against violation of these laws, we cannot be certain that these efforts will be effective. We are aware that one of our competitors is under investigation in the United States for allegations that its employees violated the FCPA in China and other markets. If this investigation causes adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of our industry, our business could be harmed. Our ability to conduct business, particularly in international markets, may be affected by political, legal, tax and regulatory risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is exposed to risks associated with our international operations, including: • the possibility that a foreign government might ban or severely restrict our business method of direct selling, or that local civil unrest, political instability or changes in diplomatic or trade relationships might disrupt our operations in an international market; • the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems in certain areas where we operate; • the presence of high inflation in the economies of international markets in which we operate; • the possibility that a government authority might impose legal, tax or other financial burdens on us or our distributors, due, for example, to the structure of our operations in various markets; • the possibility that a government authority might challenge the status of our distributors as independent contractors or impose employment or social taxes on our distributors; and • the possibility that governments may impose currency remittance restrictions limiting our ability to repatriate cash. - 33 - If we are unable to successfully expand and grow operations within developing markets, we may have difficulty achieving our long-term objectives. A significant percentage of our revenue growth over the past decade has been attributable to our expansion into new markets. Our growth over the next several years depends in part on our ability to successfully introduce products and implement initiatives in developing markets that will help generate growth. In addition to the regulatory difficulties we may face in introducing our products and initiatives in these markets, we could face difficulties in achieving acceptance of our premium-priced products in developing markets. In the past, we have struggled to operate profitably in developing markets. We may experience similar difficulty in our current and future new markets. If we are unable to successfully expand our operations within these developing markets, our opportunities to grow our business may be limited, and, as a result, we may not be able to achieve our long-term objectives. We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of the services provided by any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior and regional management, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We currently have several expatriates serving in key management positions in Japan to strengthen the management team in that market. In order to sustain growth in our markets, we will need to continue to develop and attract qualified management personnel. Our senior and regional management employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. If we are not able to successfully retain existing personnel or identify, hire and integrate new personnel, our business and growth prospects could be harmed. Inability of new products and other initiatives to gain distributor and market acceptance could harm our business. Our ability to retain key and executive level distributors or to sponsor new executive distributors is critical to our success. Because our products are distributed exclusively through our distributors and we compete with other direct selling companies in attracting distributors, our operating results could be adversely affected if our existing and new business opportunities and incentives, products and other initiatives do not generate sufficient enthusiasm and economic incentive to retain our existing distributors or to sponsor new distributors on a sustained basis. Factors that could affect our ability to continue to introduce new products include, among others, government regulations, the inability to attract and retain qualified research and development staff, the termination of third-party research and collaborative arrangements, proprietary protections of competitors that may limit our ability to offer comparable products and the difficulties in anticipating changes in consumer tastes and buying preferences. In addition, in our more mature markets, one of the challenges we face is keeping distributor leaders with established businesses and high income levels motivated and actively engaged in business building activities and in developing new distributor leaders. There can be no assurance that our initiatives will continue to generate excitement among our distributors in the long-term or that planned initiatives will be successful in maintaining distributor activity and productivity or in motivating distributor leaders to remain engaged in business building and developing new distributor leaders. Some initiatives may have unanticipated negative impacts on our distributors, particularly changes to our compensation plan. The introduction of a new product or key initiative can also negatively impact other product lines to the extent our distributor leaders focus their efforts on the new product or initiative. In addition, if any of our products fail to gain distributor acceptance, we could see an increase in returns. - 34 - The loss of key distributors could negatively impact our distributor growth and our revenue. As of December 31, 2011, we had a global network of more than 850,000 active distributors. More than 40,000 of our distributors were executive distributors. Approximately 604 distributors occupied the highest distributor level under our global compensation plan as of that date. These distributors, together with their extensive networks of downline distributors, generate substantially all of our revenue. As a result, the loss of a high-level distributor or a group of leading distributors in the distributor’s network of downline distributors, whether by their own choice or through disciplinary actions by us for violations of our policies and procedures, could negatively impact our distributor growth and our revenue. Government authorities may question our tax positions or transfer pricing policies or change their laws in a manner that could increase our effective tax rate or otherwise harm our business. As a U.S. company doing business in international markets through subsidiaries, we are subject to various tax and intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between our company and our subsidiaries. From time to time, we are audited by tax regulators in the United States and in our foreign markets. If regulators challenge our tax positions, corporate structure, transfer pricing mechanisms or intercompany transfers, we may be subject to fines and payment of back taxes, our effective tax rate may increase and our operations may be harmed. Tax rates vary from country to country, and, if regulators determine that our profits in one jurisdiction may need to be increased, we may not be able to fully utilize all foreign tax credits that are generated, which will increase our effective tax rate. For example, our federal corporate income tax rate in the United States is 35%. If our profitability in a higher tax jurisdiction, such as Japan where our tax rate in 2011 was approximately 45%, increases disproportionately to the rest of our business, our effective tax rate may increase. The various customs, exchange control and transfer pricing laws are continually changing and are subject to the interpretation of government agencies. We have experienced increased efforts by customs authorities to reclassify our products or otherwise increase the level of duties we pay on our products, including in Japan, Taiwan and Thailand. Despite our efforts to be aware of and comply with such laws, and changes to and interpretations thereof, there is a risk that we may not continue to operate in compliance with such laws. We may need to adjust our operating procedures in response to such changes, and as a result, our business may suffer. In addition, due to the international nature of our business, we are subject from time to time to reviews and audits by the foreign taxing authorities of other jurisdictions in which we conduct business throughout the world. We may be held responsible for certain taxes or assessments relating to the activities of our distributors, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our distributors are subject to taxation, and in some instances, legislation or governmental agencies impose an obligation on us to collect taxes, such as value added taxes, and to maintain appropriate records. In addition, we are subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of being responsible for social security and similar taxes with respect to our distributors. In the event that local laws and regulations or the interpretation of local laws and regulations change to require us to treat our independent distributors as employees, or that our distributors are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rather than independent contractors under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for social security and related taxes in those jurisdictions, plus any related assessments and penalties, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. If our distributors were deemed to be employees rather than independent contractors, we would also face the threat of increased vicarious liability for their actions. - 35 - The loss of or a disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2011, our principal properties consist of distribution centers where offices are located and where finished merchandise is packed and shipped to distributors in fulfillment of their orders, our worldwide headquarters, three research and development facilities and 40 retail stores and manufacturing facilities in China. Additionally, we also use third party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our products. As a company engaged in manufacturing, distribution and research and development on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, fires, strikes and other labor or industrial disputes, disruptions in logistics or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing or distribution sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory or government issues, as well as natural disasters, pandemics, border disputes, acts of terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. These risks may be exacerbated by our efforts to increase facility consolidation covering our manufacturing, distribution and supply footprints or if we are unable to successfully enhance our disaster recovery planning. The loss of, or damage to, any of our facilities or centers, or that of our third party manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions to transportation channels that we use to distribute our products to international warehouses may adversely affect our margins and profitability in those markets. We may experience disruptions to the transportation channels used to distribute our products, including increased airport and shipping port congestion, a lack of transportation capacity, increased fuel expenses, and a shortage of manpower. Disruptions in our container shipments may result in increased costs, including the additional use of airfreight to meet demand. Although we have not recently experienced significant shipping disruptions, we continue to watch for signs of upcoming congestion. Congestion to ports can affect previously negotiated contracts with shipping companies, resulting in unexpected increases in shipping costs and reduction in our net sales. Our markets are intensely competitive, and market conditions and the strengths of competitors may harm our business. The markets for our products are intensely competitive. Our results of operations may be harmed by market conditions and competition in the future. Many competitors have much greater name recognition and financial resources than we have, which may give them a competitive advantage. For example, our Nu Skin products compete directly with branded, premium retail products. We also compete with other direct selling organizations. Some of the leading direct selling companies in our existing markets are Herbalife, Mary Kay, Oriflame, Melaleuca, Avon, Forever Living and Amway. Because of regulatory restrictions concerning claims about the efficacy of personal care products and dietary supplements, we may have difficulty differentiating our products from our competitors’ products, and competing products entering the personal care and nutritional market could harm our revenue. We also compete with other network marketing companies for distributors. Some of these competitors have a longer operating history and greater visibility, name recognition and financial resources than we do. Some of our competitors have also adopted and could continue to adopt some of our successful business strategies, including our global compensation plan for distributors. Consequently, to successfully compete in this market and attract and retain distributors, we must ensure that our business opportunities and compensation plans are financially rewarding. We are beginning our 28th year in this industry and believe we have significant competitive advantages, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete in every endeavor in this market. - 36 - Product liability claims could harm our business. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly or actually caused by our products. Although historically we have had a very limited number and relatively low financial exposure from product claims, we have experienced difficulty in finding insurers that are willing to provide product liability coverage at reasonable rates due to insurance industry trends and the rising cost of insurance generally. As a result, we have elected to self-insure our product liability risks for our product lines. Until we elect and are able at reasonable rates to obtain product liability insurance, if any of our products are found to cause any injury or damage, we will be subject to the full amount of liability associated with any injuries or damages. This liability could be substantial and may exceed our reserves. We cannot predict if and when product liability insurance will be available to us on reasonable terms. We are involved, and may become involved in the future, in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could adversely affect our financial results. We are and may in the future become party to litigation. In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly affect financial results. We are currently vigorously contesting certain of these litigation claims. However, it is not possible to predict the final resolution of the litigation to which we currently are or may in the future become party to, and the impact of certain of these matters on our business, results of operations and financial condition could be material. We are currently involved in two separate disputes with customs authorities in Japan with respect to duty assessments on several of our Pharmanex nutritional products. The first dispute relates to additional customs assessments made by Yokohama Customs for the period of October 2002 through June 2005. In March 2011, the Tokyo District Court denied our complaint and upheld the additional assessments. As a result of this decision, we recorded an expense for the full amount of the disputed assessments, or $32.8 million, in the first quarter of 2011. We strongly disagree with the Tokyo District Court’s decision and have appealed the matter to the Tokyo High Court. We currently anticipate that this appeal will be decided in 2012. The second dispute in Japan relates to additional customs assessments made by Yokohama Customs for the period of October 2006 through September 2009 in connection with post-importation audits, as well as the disputed portion of our import duties from October 2009 to the present, which we have or will hold in bond or pay under protest. The aggregate amount of these assessments and disputed duties was 3.9 billion Japanese yen as of December 31, 2011 (approximately $50.7 million), net of any recovery of consumption taxes. In addition, we are currently being required to post a bond or make a deposit equal to the difference between our declared duties and the amount the customs authorities have determined we should be paying on all current imports. We are now pursuing this matter in Tokyo District Court. Any adverse rulings in these matters could materially impact our results. Please refer to Item 3. "Legal Proceedings” for more information regarding these litigation matters. In addition, our intellectual property may infringe on the rights of others, resulting in costly litigation. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, there has been an increase in the filing of suits alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, which pressure defendants into entering settlement arrangements quickly to dispose of such suits, regardless of their merit. Other companies or individuals may allege that we, our customers, licensees or other parties indemnified by us infringe on their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, defending such intellectual property litigation can be costly, distract management’s attention and resources, and the outcome is inherently uncertain. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. Any of these results may adversely affect our financial condition. - 37 - If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our product innovations and our brand equity. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality and other types of agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries, including emerging markets such as China, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our patents and trademarks may be substantial. We have filed patent applications to protect our intellectual property rights in our new technologies, however, there can be no assurance that our patent applications will be approved, that any patents issued will adequately protect our intellectual property, or that such patents will not be challenged by third parties or found by a judicial authority to be invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, many of our products rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. In order to protect or enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties, such as patent infringement suits or interference proceedings. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our financial condition. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could, however, be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. Our employees may leave to work for competitors. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may be disclosed to or otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our current or former employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and adversely affect our financial condition. - 38 - We may be subject to claims that our employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of our employees’ former employers. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other personal care product or nutritional supplement companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent that our employees are involved in research areas that are similar to those in which they were involved with their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. Any future acquisitions may expose us to additional risks. From time to time we review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. The financing for any of these acquisitions could dilute the interests of our stockholders, result in an increase in our indebtedness or both. Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses and disruption to our direct selling channel; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; and • risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience. Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms. Any failure of our internal controls over financial reporting or our compliance efforts could harm our financial and operating results or result in fines or penalties if our employees or distributors violate any material laws or regulations. We have implemented internal controls to help ensure the accuracy of our financial reporting and have implemented compliance policies and programs to help ensure that our employees and distributors comply with applicable laws and regulations. Our internal audit team regularly audits our internal controls and various aspects of our business and we regularly assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. In addition, our independent external auditor audits our controls and provides its opinion regarding the effectiveness of our controls. There can be no assurance, however, that these internal or external assessments and audits will identify all significant or material weaknesses in our internal controls. If we fail to identify a material weakness or if we fail to correct any noted weakness there would be a risk that we may have to restate financial statements if the material weakness resulted in a material misstatement in our financial results. - 39 - From time to time, we initiate further investigations into our business operations based on the results of these audits or complaints, questions, or allegations made by employees or other parties regarding our business practices and operations. In addition, our business and operations may be investigated by applicable government authorities. In the event any of these investigations identify material violations of applicable laws by our employees or distributors, we could be subject to adverse publicity, fines, penalties or loss of licenses or permits. System failures could harm our business. Because of our diverse geographic operations and our complex distributor compensation plan, our business is highly dependent on efficiently functioning information technology systems. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, earthquakes, telecommunications failures and other events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. We have adopted and implemented a Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery Plan. Our primary data sets are archived and stored at third-party secure sites. We have set up a recovery site for certain critical data and operations related to our distributors and we are currently setting up a recovery site for certain other critical data and operations. Despite these precautions, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems could result in interruptions in services and reduce our revenue and profits. Epidemics and other global health risks could negatively impact our business. Our revenue was negatively impacted in 2003 by the SARS epidemic that hit Asia during that year. It is difficult to predict the impact on our business, if any, of a recurrence of SARS, or the emergence of new epidemics, such as avian flu or H1N1 flu. Although such events could generate increased sales of health and immune supplements and certain personal care products, our direct selling and retail activities and results of operations could be harmed if the fear of any communicable and rapidly spreading disease results in travel restrictions or causes people to avoid group meetings or gatherings or interaction with other people. In addition, most of our Pharmanex nutritional supplement revenue is generated from products that are encapsulated in bovine- and/or porcine-sourced gel capsules. If we experience production difficulties, quality control problems, or shortages in supply in connection with bovine or porcine related health concerns, this could result in additional risk of product shortages or write-offs of inventory that no longer can be used. We may be unable to introduce our products in some markets if we are unable to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or if any product ingredients are prohibited, which could harm our business. The market price of our Class A common stock is subject to significant fluctuations due to a number of factors that are beyond our control. Our Class A common stock closed at $23.39 per share on February 1, 2010 and closed at $50.60 per share on February 1, 2012. During this two-year period, our Class A common stock traded as low as $22.86 per share and as high as $51.67 per share. Many factors could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fall. Some of these factors include: • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • the sale of shares of Class A common stock by our original or significant stockholders; • general trends in the market for our products; • acquisitions by us or our competitors; • economic and/or currency exchange issues in markets in which we operate; • changes in estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; and • general business and political conditions. - 40 - Broad market fluctuations could also lower the market price of our Class A common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. If our stockholders sell a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, the market price of our Class A common stock could fall. Several of our principal stockholders hold a large number of shares of the outstanding Class A common stock. A decision by any of our principal stockholders to aggressively sell shares could depress the market price of our Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 62.3 million shares of Class A common stock outstanding. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 