ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a number of substantial risks. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and they should be considered in connection with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors should be read together with the other items in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” Difficult economic conditions could harm our business. Global economic conditions continue to be challenging. Although the economy appears to be recovering in some countries, it is not possible for us to predict the extent and timing of any improvement in global economic conditions. Even with continued growth in many of our markets during this period, the economic downturn could adversely impact our business in the future by causing a decline in demand for our products, particularly if the economic conditions are prolonged or worsen. In addition, such economic conditions may adversely impact access to capital for us and our suppliers, may decrease our distributors' ability to obtain or maintain credit cards, and may otherwise adversely impact our operations and overall financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could impact our financial results. In 2010, approximately 86% of our sales occurred in markets outside of the United States in each market’s respective local currency. We purchase inventory primarily in the United States in U.S. dollars. In preparing our financial statements, we translate revenue and expenses in our markets outside the United States from their local currencies into U.S. dollars using weighted average exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, particularly the Japanese yen which accounted for approximately 31% of our 2010 revenue, our reported revenue, gross profit and net income will likely be reduced. Foreign currency fluctuations, particularly with respect to the Japanese yen given the amount of yen denominated debt on our balance sheet, can also result in losses and gains resulting from translation of foreign curr ency denominated balances on our balance sheet. Given the complex global political and economic dynamics that affect exchange rate fluctuations, it is difficult to predict future fluctuations and the effect these fluctuations may have upon future reported results or our overall financial condition. - 23 - Because our Japanese operations account for a significant part of our business, continued weakness in our business operations in Japan could harm our business. Approximately 31% of our 2010 revenue was generated in Japan. We have experienced local currency revenue declines in Japan over the last several years and continue to face challenges in this market. These declines could continue or increase. Factors that could impact our results in the market include: • continued or increased levels of regulatory and media scrutiny and any regulatory actions taken by regulators, or any adoption of more restrictive regulations, in response to such scrutiny; • significant weakening of the Japanese yen; • increased regulatory constraints with respect to the claims we can make regarding the efficacy of products and tools, which could limit our ability to effectively market them; • risks that the initiatives we have implemented in Japan, which are patterned after successful initiatives implemented in other markets, will not have the same level of success in Japan, may not generate renewed growth or increased productivity among our distributors, and may cost more or require more time to implement than we have anticipated; • inappropriate activities by our distributors and any resulting regulatory actions against us or our distributors; • improper practices of other direct selling companies or their distributors that increase regulatory and media scrutiny of our industry; • any weakness in the economy or consumer confidence; and • increased competitive pressures from other direct selling companies and their distributors who actively seek to solicit our distributors to join their businesses. Heightened regulatory scrutiny of the direct selling industry in Japan could harm our business if we are not able to successfully limit the number of general inquiries and complaints regarding our business received by consumer protection centers. We continue to experience heightened regulatory scrutiny of the direct selling industry in Japan. Several direct sellers in Japan have been penalized for actions of distributors that violated applicable regulations, including one prominent international direct selling company that was suspended from sponsoring activities for three months in 2008, and another large Japanese direct selling company that was suspended from sponsoring activities for six months in 2009. In addition, some Japanese lawmakers have experienced increased political pressure to discontinue supporting the direct selling industry. We also continue to experience a high level of general inquiries and complaints to consumer protection centers in Japan and have taken steps to try to resolve these issues including providing additional training to distributors, and restructuring our compliance group in Japan. We have seen improvements in some prefectures, but not in others. We have received warnings from consumer centers in certain prefectures raising concerns about our distributor training and number of general inquiries and complaints. Although we are implementing additional steps to reinforce our distributor education and training in Japan to help address these concerns, we cannot be sure that such steps will be successful. If consumer complaints and inquiries escalate to a government review or if the current level of complaints and inquiries does not impro ve, there is an increased likelihood that regulators could take action against us, including a suspension of our sponsoring activities, or we could receive negative media attention, either of which could harm our business. In 2009, Japan implemented a national organization of consumer protection centers, which appears to have resulted in a further increase in the scrutiny of our business and industry. - 24 - If we are unable to retain our existing distributors and recruit additional distributors, our revenue will not increase and may even decline. We distribute almost all of our products through our distributors and we depend on them to generate virtually all of our revenue. Our distributors may terminate their services at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience high turnover among distributors from year to year. Distributors who join to purchase our products for personal consumption or for short-term income goals frequently only stay with us for a short time. Executive distributors who have committed time and effort to build a sales organization will generally stay for longer periods. Distributors have highly variable levels of training, skills and capabilities. As a result, in order to maintain sales and increase sales in the future, we need to increase our retention of existing distributors and continue to successfully recruit additional distributors. To increase our revenue, we must increase the number of and/or the productivity of our distributors. We have experienced periodic declines in both active distributors and executive distributors in the past and could experience such declines again in the future. For example, over the last several months we have experienced some softness in our active and executive distributor numbers in the United States. If our initiatives for 2011 do not drive growth in our distributor numbers, particularly in the United States and Japan where our distributors numbers have been down, our operating results could be harmed. While we take many steps to help train, motivate, and retain distributors, we cannot accurately predict how the number and productivity of distributors may fluctuate because we rely primarily upon our distributor leaders to recruit, train, and motivate new distributors. Our operating results could be harmed i f we and our distributor leaders do not generate sufficient interest in our business to retain existing distributors and attract new distributors. The number and productivity of our distributors could be harmed by several additional factors, including: ▪ any adverse publicity regarding us, our products, our distribution channel, or our competitors; ▪ lack of interest in, or the technical failure of, existing or new products; ▪ lack of a compelling sponsoring story that generates interest for potential new distributors and effectively draws them into the business; ▪ any negative public perception of our products and their ingredients; ▪ any negative public perception of our distributors and direct selling businesses in general; ▪ our actions to enforce our policies and procedures; ▪ any regulatory actions or charges against us or others in our industry; ▪ general economic and business conditions; and ▪ potential saturation or maturity levels in a given country or market which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain distributors in such market. - 25 - Although our distributors are independent contractors, improper distributor actions that violate laws or regulations could harm our business. Distributor activities that violate applicable laws or regulations could result in government or third party actions against us, which could harm our business. Except in China, our distributors are not employees and act independently of us. We implement strict policies and procedures to ensure our distributors will comply with legal requirements. However, given the size of our distributor force, we experience problems with distributors from time to time. For example, product claims made by some of our distributors in 1990 and 1991 led to an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) in the United States, which resulted in our entering into a consent decree with the FTC. In addition, rulings by the South Korean Federal Trade Commission and by judicial authorities against us and other companies in South Korea indicate that vicarious liability may be imposed on us for the criminal activity of our distributors. In addition, we have seen an increase in sales aids and promotional material being produced by distributors and distributor groups in some markets, which places an increased burden on us to monitor compliance of such materials and increases the risk of materials that violate our policies and applicable regulations. As we expand internationally, our distributors often attempt to anticipate which markets we will open in the future and begin marketing and sponsoring activities in markets where we are not qualified to conduct business. If we are unable to adequately address these issues, we could face fines or other legal action. Laws and regulations may prohibit or severely restrict our direct sales efforts and cause our revenue and profitability to decline, and regulators could adopt new regulations that harm our business. Various government agencies throughout the world regulate direct sales practices. Laws and regulations in Japan, South Korea and China are particularly restrictive and difficult. These laws and regulations are generally intended to prevent fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as “pyramid” schemes, that compensate participants for recruiting additional participants irrespective of product sales, use high pressure recruiting methods and/or do not involve legitimate products. The laws and regulations in our current markets often: ▪ impose order cancellations, product returns, inventory buy-backs and cooling-off rights for consumers and distributors; ▪ require us or our distributors to register with government agencies; ▪ impose caps on the amount of commissions we can pay; and/or ▪ require us to ensure that distributors are not being compensated based upon the recruitment of new distributors. Complying with these widely varying and sometimes inconsistent rules and regulations can be difficult and may require the devotion of significant resources on our part. If we are unable to continue business in existing markets or commence operations in new markets because of these laws, our revenue and profitability may decline. In addition, countries where we currently do business could change their laws or regulations to negatively affect or completely prohibit direct sales efforts. - 26 - Challenges to the form of our network marketing system or other regulatory compliance issues could harm our business. We may be subject to challenges by government regulators regarding the form of our network marketing system or elements of our business including marketing and product claims made by us or our distributors. Legal and regulatory requirements concerning our industry involve a high level of subjectivity and are inherently fact-based and subject to interpretation, which provides regulators with more discretion in their application of these laws and regulations. We have seen an increase in government scrutiny of our industry in various markets, including Japan, South Korea, China, Europe, and the United Kingdom. From time to time, we receive formal and informal inquiries from various government regulatory authorities about our business and our compliance with local laws and regulations. For example, in 2009, we received notice from Belgium aut horities alleging that we have violated the anti-pyramid regulations in that market and an inquiry from the Consumer Protection Agency in Hungary regarding various marketing claims. In the early 1990s, we entered into voluntary consent agreements with the FTC and a few state regulatory agencies relating to investigations of our distributors’ product claims and practices. Pursuant to the consent decrees, we agreed, among other things, to supplement our procedures to enforce our policies, to not allow distributors to make earnings representations without making additional disclosures relating to average earnings and to not make, or allow our distributors to make, product claims that were not substantiated. As a result of the previous investigations, the FTC makes inquiries from time to time regarding our compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our consent decree. If we are not able to resolve existing regulatory reviews to the satisfaction of the applicable governmental agencies, or there are any new regulatory challenges regarding our business or others in our industry, our business could be harmed if such actions result in the imposition of any fines or damages on our business, create adverse publicity, increase scrutiny of our industry, detrimentally affect our efforts to recruit or motivate distributors and attract customers, or interpret laws in a manner inconsistent with our current business practices. Challenges by third parties to the form of our business model or the actions of our company or distributors could harm our business. There have been private actions filed against some of our competitors in our industry in recent years by their distributors challenging the legality of their form of business. One of our largest competitors recently settled a class-action lawsuit, requiring it to pay a large cash settlement. There is a risk that such challenges and settlements could provide incentives for similar actions by distributors against us and other direct selling companies. Any challenges regarding us or others in our industry could harm our business if such challenges result in the imposition of any fines or damages on our business, create adverse publicity, increase scrutiny of our industry, detrimentally affect our efforts to recruit or motivate distributors and attract customers, or interpret laws in a manner inconsistent with our curren t business practices. Because legal and regulatory requirements concerning our industry involve a high level of subjectivity and are inherently fact-based and subject to judicial interpretation, we can provide no assurance that we would not be harmed by the application or interpretation of statutes or regulations governing network marketing in any civil challenge by a current or former distributor. Government regulations relating to the marketing and advertising of our products and services may restrict, inhibit or delay our ability to sell these products and harm our business. Our products and our related marketing and advertising efforts are subject to numerous domestic and foreign government agencies’ and authorities’ laws and extensive regulations, which govern the ingredients and products that may be marketed without pre-market approval and/or registration as a drug and the claims that may be made regarding such products. Many of these laws and regulations involve a high level of subjectivity, are inherently fact-based and subject to interpretation, and vary significantly from market to market. These laws and regulations can limit the claims we can make regarding our products and often restrict our ability to introduce products or ingredients into one or more markets. In Europe for example, we are unable to market suppl ements that contain ingredients that were not marketed prior to May 1997 in Europe (“novel foods”) without going through an extensive registration and pre-market approval process. In addition, there has been increased regulatory scrutiny of nutritional supplements and marketing claims under existing and new regulations. At times these laws and regulations may prevent us from launching a product in a market, require us to reformulate a product or limit the claims made regarding a product. For example, as we prepare for the global launch of our new ageLOC nutritional product, we face regulatory issues that may force us to reformulate the product for some markets and may limit our ability to revise the product formulations without delaying necessary registrations. If these laws and regulations restrict, inhibit or delay our ability to introduce or market our products or limit the claims we are able to make regarding our products, our business may be harmed. - 27 - During recent years, authorities’ enforcement activity and interpretation of these regulations suggest a greater allowance for scientific-based and substantiated claims when not involving specific drug or disease claims. As a result, as companies have developed new and innovative products, there has been a trend towards more aggressive claims and the inclusion of greater science regarding the marketing of cosmetic and nutritional products. We believe in order to remain competitive we need to have similarly compelling claims. Because there is a degree of subjectivity in determining whether marketing materials or statements constitute product claims and whether they involve improper drug claims, our claims and our interpretation of applicable regulations may be challenged, which could harm our business. 0;This is a particular risk with respect to our ageLOC line of products based on our novel approach to these products and our focus on genes and sources of aging in both our scientific explanation for support of our products as well as our marketing claims. If regulators take a more restrictive stance regarding such claims, alter their enforcement priorities, or determine that any of our claims violate applicable regulations, we could be fined or forced to modify our claims or stop selling a product. New regulations governing the marketing and sale of nutritional supplements could harm our business. There has been an increasing movement in the United States and other markets to increase the regulation of dietary supplements, which could impose additional restrictions or requirements in the future. In the United States, for example, some legislators and industry critics continue to push for increased regulatory authority by the FDA over nutritional supplements. Our business could be harmed if more restrictive legislation is successfully introduced and adopted in the future. In particular, the adoption of legislation requiring FDA approval of supplements or ingredients could delay or inhibit our ability to introduce new supplements. We face similar pressures in our other markets, including Europe, which is expected to adopt additional regulations setting new limits on acceptable maximum levels of vitamins and minerals. In the United St ates, effective December 1, 2009, the FTC approved revisions to its Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising, or Guides, that require disclosure of material connections between an endorser and the company they are endorsing and do not allow marketing using atypical results. The requirements and restrictions of the revised Guides may diminish the impact of our marketing efforts and negatively impact our sales results. If we or our distributors fail to comply with these Guides, the FTC could bring an enforcement action against us and we could be fined and/or forced to alter our operations. Our operations also could be harmed if new laws or regulations are enacted that restrict our ability to market or distribute nutritional supplements or impose additional burdens or requirements on nutritional supplement companies or require us to reformulate our products. - 28 - Regulations governing the production and marketing of our personal care products could harm our business. Our personal care products are subject to various domestic and foreign laws and regulations that regulate cosmetic products and set forth regulations for determining whether a product can be marketed as a “cosmetic” or requires further approval as an over-the-counter drug. A determination that our cosmetic products impact the structure or function of the human body, or improper marketing claims by our distributors may lead to a determination that such products require pre-market approval as a drug. Such regulations in any given market can limit our ability to import products and can delay product launches as we go through the registration and approval process for those products. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could face enforcement action against us and we could be fined, forced to alter or stop s elling our products and/or required to adjust our operations. Our operations also could be harmed if new laws or regulations are enacted that restrict our ability to market or distribute our personal care products or impose additional burdens or requirements on the contents of our personal care products or require us to reformulate our products. If we are found not to be in compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices our operations could be harmed. FDA regulations on Good Manufacturing Practices and Adverse Event Reporting requirements for the nutritional supplement industry have recently gone into effect and require good manufacturing processes for us and our vendors, including stringent vendor qualifications, ingredient identification, manufacturing controls and record keeping. The ingredient identification requirement, which requires us to confirm the levels, identity and potency of ingredients listed on our product labels within a narrow range, is particularly burdensome and difficult for us with respect to a product like LifePak, which contains 46 different ingredients. We are also now required to report serious adverse even ts associated with consumer use of our products. Our operations could be harmed if regulatory authorities make determinations that we or our vendors are not in compliance with the new regulations. A finding of noncompliance may result in administrative warnings, penalties or actions impacting our ability to continue selling certain of our products. In addition, compliance with these regulations has increased and may further increase the cost of manufacturing certain of our products as we work with our vendors to assure they are qualified and in compliance. Our operations in China are subject to significant government scrutiny and may be harmed by the results of such scrutiny. Because of the government’s significant concerns about direct selling activities, government regulators in China closely scrutinize activities of direct selling companies or activities that resemble direct selling. The regulatory environment in China with regards to direct selling is evolving, and officials in multiple national and local levels in the Chinese government often exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret, apply and enforce applicable regulations. We cannot be certain that our operations will continue to be deemed by national and local regulatory authorities to be in compliance with such regulations. In the past, the government has taken significant actions against companies that the government found were engaging in direct selling activities in violation of applicable law, including shutting down their businesses and imposing substantial fines. Our operations in China are subject to significant regulatory scrutiny, and we have experienced challenges in the past, including interruption of sales activities at certain stores and fines being paid in some cases. Although we have now obtained direct selling licenses in a limited number of provinces, we continue to operate a hybrid model that utilizes sales employees, contractual sales promoters and direct sellers to market our products. Government regulators continue to scrutinize our activities and the activities of our sales employees, contractual sales promoters and direct sellers to monitor our compliance with applicable regulations. We continue to be subject to government reviews and investigations. At times, complaints made by our sales representatives to the government have resulted in increased scrutiny by the government. Any determination that our operations or activities, or the activities of our sales employees, contractual sales promoters or direct sellers, are not in compliance with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines, extended interruptions of business, termination of necessary licenses and permits, including our direct selling licenses, or restrictions on our ability to open new stores, obtain approvals for service centers or expand into new locations, all of which could harm our business. - 29 - If regulations in China are interpreted or enforced by government authorities in a manner that negatively impacts our retail business model or our hybrid business model there, our business in China could be harmed. The Chinese government has adopted anti-pyramiding and direct selling regulations that contain significant restrictions and limitations, including a restriction on multi-level compensation for independent distributors selling away from a fixed location. The regulations also impose various requirements that are more burdensome than in our other markets and which could negatively impact the willingness of some people to sign up to become direct sellers. There continues to be uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of the regulations and their scope, and the specific types of restrictions and requirements imposed under them and national and local regulatory authorities exercise broad discretion in interpreting, applying and enforcing these direct selling regulations. Our business and growth prospects would be harmed if the anti- pyramiding regulations or direct selling regulations are interpreted in such a manner that our current method of conducting business through the use of sales employees, contractual sales promoters and direct sellers is deemed to violate these regulations. In particular, our business would be harmed by any determination that our current method of compensating our sales employees and contractual sales promoters, including our use of the sales productivity of an individual and the group of individuals whom he or she trains and supervises as one of the factors in establishing salary and compensation, violates the restriction on multi-level compensation under the rules. Our business could also be harmed if regulators inhibit our ability to operate our hybrid business model, which includes retail stores, sales employees, contractual sales promoters and direct sellers. If we are unable to obtain additional necessary national and local government approvals in China as quickly as we would like, our ability to expand our direct selling business and grow our business there could be negatively impacted. We have completed the required national and local licensing process and commenced direct selling activities in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and four cities in the Guangdong province. In order to expand our direct selling model into additional provinces, we currently must obtain a series of approvals from district, city, provincial and national government agencies with respect to each province in which we wish to expand. The process for obtaining the necessary government approvals to conduct direct selling continues to evolve. As we are being required to work with such a large number of provincial, city, district and national government authorities, we have found that it is taking more time than anticipated to work through the approval process with these authorities. The complexity of the approval process as well as the government’s c ontinued cautious approach as direct selling develops in China makes it difficult to predict the timeline for obtaining these approvals. If the results of the government’s evaluation of our direct selling activities result in further delays in obtaining licenses elsewhere, or if the current processes for obtaining approvals are delayed further for any reason or are changed or are interpreted differently than currently understood, our ability to expand direct selling in China and our growth prospects in this market, could be negatively impacted. - 30 - Our compensation plan and business model for our sales force in China differs from other markets and could harm our ability to grow our business in China. The direct selling regulations in China impose various limitations and requirements, including a prohibition on multi-level compensation and a required examination prior to becoming a distributor. The regulations also impose other restrictions on direct selling activities that differ from the regulations in our other markets. As a result, our direct selling compensation plan and business model for the direct sales component of our business differs from the model we use in other markets. There can be no assurance that these restrictions will not negatively impact our ability to provide an attractive business opportunity to distributors in this market and limit our ability to grow our business in this market. In addition, the regulations do not allow the sale of general foods through a direct selling business model. Because some of our supplements, including LifePak, are currently marketed as general foods pending approval as health foods these products cannot currently be approved for sale through our direct selling channel. Failure of these products to receive health food status or direct selling product approval in a timely manner could have a negative impact on our direct selling business. The loss of suppliers or shortages in ingredients could harm our business. We acquire ingredients and products from two suppliers that each currently manufactures a significant portion of our Nu Skin personal care products. In addition, we currently rely on two suppliers for a majority of Pharmanex nutritional supplement products. In the event we were to lose any of these suppliers and experience any difficulties in finding or transitioning to alternative suppliers, this could harm our business. In addition, we obtain some of our products from sole suppliers that own or control the product formulations, ingredients, or other intellectual property rights associated with such products. These products include our Galvanic Spa System and True Face Essence Ultra products, two of our better sell ing products. We also license the right to distribute some of our products from third parties. In the event we are unable to renew these contracts, we may need to discontinue some products or develop substitute products, which could harm our revenue. In addition, if we experience supply shortages or regulatory impediments with respect to the raw materials and ingredients we use in our products, we may need to seek alternative supplies or suppliers and may experience difficulties in finding ingredients that are comparable in quality and price. Some of our nutritional products, including g3 juice, incorporate natural products that are only harvested once a year and may have limited supplies. If demand exceeds forecasts, we may have difficulties in obtaining additional supplies to meet the excess demand until the next growing season. If we are unable to successfully respond to such issues, our business could be harmed. Product diversion to certain markets, including China, may have a negative impact on our business. From time to time, we see our product being sold through online or other distribution channels in certain markets. Although we have taken steps to try to control this activity for products sold in China, this issue continues to be a significant challenge. Product diversion causes confusion regarding our distribution channels and negatively impacts our distributors’ ability to retail our products. It also creates a negative impression regarding the viability of the business opportunity for our distributors and sales representatives, which can harm our ability to recruit new distributors and sales representatives. In addition, in some cases, product diversion schemes may also involve illegal importation, investment or other activities. If we are unable to effectively address this issue or if diversion increases, our business could be harmed. Intellectual property rights are difficult to enforce in China. Chinese commercial law is relatively undeveloped compared to most of our other major markets, and, as a result, we may have limited legal recourse in the event we encounter significant difficulties with patent or trademark infringement or theft of trade secrets. Limited protection of intellectual property is available under Chinese law, and the local manufacturing of our products may subject us to an increased risk that unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our product formulations. As a result, we cannot assure that we will be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and product formulations. - 31 - If our Galvanic Spa System or Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner are determined to be a medical device in a particular geographic market or if our distributors use it for medical purposes, our ability to continue to market and distribute such tools could be harmed. One of our strategies is to market unique and innovative products and tools that allow our distributors to distinguish our products, including the Galvanic Spa System and the Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner. We do not believe these products are medical devices. However, we have faced regulatory inquiries in Japan, South Korea, Indonesia, Taiwan, Singapore, Thailand and the United States regarding our Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner and/or our Galvanic Spa System. While we have successfully worked with regulators to resolve these matters in some markets, we have n ot been able to market the Galvanic Spa System as a cosmetic device in Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand and Colombia, due to similar regulatory restrictions that have required us to register the Galvanic Spa System as a medical device. There have also been legislative proposals in Singapore and Malaysia relating to the regulation of medical devices that could affect the way we market the Galvanic Spa System and the Pharmanex BioPhotonic Scanner in these countries. Any determination in additional markets that the Galvanic Spa System or the Pharmanex BioPhotonic S canner are medical devices or that distributors are using them to make medical claims or perform medical diagnoses or other activities limited to licensed professionals or approved medical devices could negatively impact our ability to use these products in a market. Regulatory scrutiny of a product could also dampen distributor enthusiasm and hinder the ability of distributors to effectively utilize such product. Where necessary, obtaining medical device registrations could require us to provide documentation concerning product manufacturing and clinical utility and to make design, specification and manufacturing process modifications to meet stringent standards imposed on medical device companies. We have registered, or are currently in the process of registering, the Galvanic Spa System as a medical device in Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand and Colombia. Any difficulty, delay or inability to comply with regulatory requirements, including obtaining or maintaining any required registrations, in these markets may harm our business. In an effort to allow registration of the Galvanic Spa System in Taiwan and to update the registrat ion in Indonesia, we are working with our vendor to obtain certification of its facilities for medical device manufacturing. There can be no assurance we will be able to provide the required medical device documentation, prove clinical utility in a manner sufficient to obtain medical device approval or make such changes promptly or in a manner that is satisfactory to regulatory authorities. If we obtain such medical device approval in order to sell a product in one market, such approval may be used as precedent to a claim that similar approval should be required in another market. Such additional requirements could negatively impact the cost associated with manufacturing the Galvanic Spa System and sale of the Galvanic Spa System as a non-medical device in those markets. Changes to our distributor compensation arrangements could be viewed negatively by some distributors, could fail to achieve desired long-term results and have a negative impact on revenue. Our distributor compensation plan includes some components that differ from market to market. We modify components of our compensation plan from time to time in an attempt to keep our compensation plan competitive and attractive to existing and potential distributors, to address changing market dynamics, to provide incentives to distributors that we believe will help grow our business, to conform to local regulations and to address other business needs. Because of the size of our distributor force and the complexity of our compensation plans, it is difficult to predict how such changes will be viewed by distributors and whether such changes will achieve their desired results. For example, certain changes we made to our compensation plan in 2005, which had been successful in several markets, did not achieve anticipated results in Japan, Ch ina and certain markets in Southeast Asia and negatively impacted our business. - 32 - Our ability to conduct business, particularly in international markets, may be affected by political, legal, tax and regulatory risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is exposed to risks associated with our international operations, including: ▪ the possibility that a foreign government might ban or severely restrict our business method of direct selling, or that local civil unrest, political instability or changes in diplomatic or trade relationships might disrupt our operations in an international market; ▪ the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems in certain areas where we operate; ▪ the presence of high inflation in the economies of international markets in which we operate; ▪ the possibility that a government authority might impose legal, tax or other financial burdens on us or our distributors, due, for example, to the structure of our operations in various markets; and ▪ the possibility that a government authority might challenge the status of our distributors as independent contractors or impose employment or social taxes on our distributors. Another risk associated with our international operations is the possibility that a foreign government may impose currency remittance restrictions. Due to the possibility of government restrictions on transfers of cash out of the country and control of exchange rates, we may not be able to immediately repatriate cash at the official exchange rate or if the official exchange rate devalues, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations may also expose us to the risk that we violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) or related U.S. and foreign laws. Any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with existing laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, civil and criminal penalties, equitable remedies, including disgorgement, injunctive relief and other sanctions against us or our personnel. In addition, other countries in which we do business may initiate their own investigations and impose similar sanctions. Should this be the case, there can be no assurance as to how the resulting consequences, if any, may impact our internal controls, business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. One of our competitors has announced that it is investigating c laims that its employees violated the FCPA in China and other markets. If this investigation causes adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of our industry, our business could be harmed. We are also subject to the interpretation and enforcement by governmental agencies of other foreign laws, rules, regulations or policies, including any changes thereto, such as restrictions on trade, import and export license requirements, privacy and data protection laws, and tariffs and taxes, which may require us to adjust our operations in certain markets where we do business. In addition, we face legal and regulatory risks in the United States and, in particular, cannot predict with certainty the outcome of various contingencies or the impact that pending or future legislative and regulatory changes may have on our business in the future. - 33 - If we are unable to successfully expand and grow operations within developing markets, we may have difficulty achieving our long-term objectives. A significant percentage of our revenue growth over the past decade has been attributable to our expansion into new markets. Our growth over the next several years depends in part on our ability to successfully introduce products and tools, and to successfully implement initiatives in developing markets that will help generate growth. In addition to the regulatory difficulties we may face in introducing our products and initiatives in these markets, we could face difficulties in achieving acceptance of our premium-priced products in developing markets. In the past, we have struggled to operate profitably in developing markets. We may experience similar difficulty in our current and future new markets. If we are unable to successfully expand our operations within these developing markets, our opportunities to grow our business may be limited, and, as a result, we may not be able to achieve our long-term objectives. Adverse publicity concerning our business, marketing plan or products could harm our business and reputation. The size of our distribution force and the results of our operations can be particularly impacted by adverse publicity regarding us, the nature of our distributor network, our products or the actions of our distributors. Specifically, we are susceptible to adverse publicity concerning: ▪ suspicions about the legality and ethics of network marketing; ▪ the safety or effectiveness of ingredients in our or our competitors' products; ▪ regulatory investigations of us, our competitors and our respective products; ▪ the actions of our current or former distributors; and ▪ public perceptions of the direct selling industry or the nutritional or personal care industry generally. For example, in 2010 we received a 60-day notice from a consumer group in California of its intent to file a citizen enforcement action under California Proposition 65, alleging that we failed to warn consumers of exposure to lead in four of our products. We are aware that a number of other nutritional companies have received similar notices and withdrawals from the same group. In 2010, we also received a letter from the California Attorney General, alleging that one of our products contained lead in excess of the level allowed under California Proposition 65. If one or more of these products is found to be in violation of California Proposition 65, we may be required to reformulate the product, label the product in compliance with Californi a Proposition 65 or, at our election, discontinue selling the product in California. We may also be required to pay civil fines. Although we believe we are in compliance with the requirements of California Proposition 65, any negative media attention or other adverse publicity created by these allegations, or any new or additional allegations, could negatively impact consumer and distributor perceptions of our products and harm our business. In addition, in the past we have experienced negative publicity that has harmed our business in connection with regulatory investigations and inquiries. Critics of our industry and other individuals who want to pursue an agenda, have in the past and may in the future utilize the internet, the press and other means to publish criticisms of the industry, our company and our competitors, or make allegations regarding our business and operations, or the business and operations of our competitors. We or others in our industry may receive similar negative publicity or allegations in the future, and it may harm our business and reputation. - 34 - Any failure of our internal controls over financial reporting or our compliance efforts could harm our financial and operating results or result in fines or penalties if our employees or distributors violate any material laws or regulations. We have implemented internal controls to help ensure the accuracy of our financial reporting and have implemented compliance policies and programs to help ensure that our employees and distributors comply with applicable laws and regulations. Our internal audit team regularly audits our internal controls and various aspects of our business and we regularly assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. In addition, our independent external auditor audits our controls and provides its opinion regarding the effectiveness of our controls. There can be no assurance, however, that these internal or external assessments and audits will identify all significant or material weaknesses in our internal controls. If we fail to identify a material weakness or if we fail to correct any noted weakness the re would be a risk that we may have to restate financial statements if the material weakness resulted in a material misstatement in our financial results. From time to time, we initiate further investigations into our business operations based on the results of these audits or complaints, questions, or allegations made by employees or other parties regarding our business practices and operations. In addition, our business and operations may be investigated by applicable government authorities. In the event any of these investigations identify material violations of applicable laws by our employees or distributors, we could be subject to adverse publicity, fines, penalties or loss of licenses or permits. Inability of new products and other initiatives to gain distributor and market acceptance could harm our business. Our ability to retain key and executive level distributors or to sponsor new executive distributors is critical to our success. Because our products are distributed exclusively through our distributors and we compete with other direct selling companies in attracting distributors, our operating results could be adversely affected if our existing and new business opportunities and incentives, products and other initiatives do not generate sufficient enthusiasm and economic incentive to retain our existing distributors or to sponsor new distributors on a sustained basis. Factors that could affect our ability to continue to introduce new products include, among others, government regulations, the inability to attract and retain qualified research and development staff, the termination of third-party research and collaborative arrangements, pr oprietary protections of competitors that may limit our ability to offer comparable products and the difficulties in anticipating changes in consumer tastes and buying preferences. In addition, in our more mature markets, one of the challenges we face is keeping distributor leaders with established businesses and high income levels motivated and actively engaged in business building activities and in developing new distributor leaders. There can be no assurance that our initiatives will continue to generate excitement among our distributors in the long-term or that planned initiatives will be successful in maintaining distributor activity and productivity or in motivating distributor leaders to remain engaged in business building and developing new distributor leaders. Some initiatives may have unanticipated negative impacts on our distributors, particularly changes to our compensation plan. The introduction of a new product or key initiative can also negatively impact other product lines to the extent our d istributor leaders focus their efforts on the new product or initiative. In addition, if any of our products fail to gain distributor acceptance, we could see an increase in returns. The loss of key high-level distributors could negatively impact our distributor growth and our revenue. As of December 31, 2010, we had a global network of approximately 800,000 active distributors. Approximately 36,000 of our distributors were executive distributors. Approximately 480 distributors occupied the highest distributor level under our global compensation plan as of that date. These distributors, together with their extensive networks of downline distributors, generate substantially all of our revenue. As a result, the loss of a high-level distributor or a group of leading distributors in the distributor’s network of downline distributors, whether by their own choice or through disciplinary actions by us for violations of our policies and procedures, could negatively impact our distributor growth and our revenue. - 35 - We are currently involved in disputes regarding customs assessments in Japan and any adverse rulings in these matters could require us to take charges to our earnings. We are currently involved in two separate disputes with the customs authorities in Japan with respect to duty assessments on several of our Pharmanex nutritional products totaling approximately 5.3 billion Japanese yen as of December 31, 2010 (approximately $65.3 million), net of any recovery of consumption taxes. We also recently were notified that we are likely to receive an additional assessment of 0.6 billion Japanese yen (approximately $7.7 million) related to the second dispute. The first dispute relates to additional customs assessments made by Yokohama Customs for the period of October 2002 through July 2005. The aggregate amount of these additional assessments is 2.7 billion Japanese yen (approximately $33.2 million as of December 31, 2010), net of any recovery of consumption taxes. The final hearing on this matter was held on February 1, 2011 and the court indicated it would issue a decision on this case on March 25, 2011. Either party has the right to appeal this decision. If we receive an adverse decision in this case, we may be required to record an expense for the full amount of the disputed assessments, or $33.2 million. The second dispute relates to additional customs assessments made by Yokohama Customs for the period of October 2006 through November 2008 in connection with an audit in 2009, as well as the disputed portion of our current import duty rate we have been required to pay or hold in bond, and have paid under protest, since October of 2009. The aggregate amount of these additional assessments and disputed duties is 2.6 billion Japanese yen as of December 31, 2010 (approximately $32.1 million), net of any recovery of consumption taxes. We were also recently notified that we are likely to be assessed an additional 0.6 billion Japanese yen as of December 31, 2010 (approximately $7.7 million), net of any recovery of consumption taxes based on an audit of the period of November 2008 through September 2009. With this assessment, we have been re quired to pay or hold in bond amounts for all periods from October 2006 to present and we believe that additional assessments related to any prior period would be barred by applicable statutes of limitations. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in recovering the amounts assessed and paid or held in bond, we will likely be required to record an expense for the full amount of the disputed assessments, or $32.1 million as of December 31, 2010. Government authorities may question our tax positions or transfer pricing policies or change their laws in a manner that could increase our effective tax rate or otherwise harm our business. As a U.S. company doing business in international markets through subsidiaries, we are subject to various tax and intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between our company and our subsidiaries. From time to time, we are audited by tax regulators in the United States and in our foreign markets. If regulators challenge our tax positions, corporate structure, transfer pricing mechanisms or intercompany transfers, we may be subject to fines and payment of back taxes, our effective tax rate may increase and our operations may be harmed. Tax rates vary from country to country, and, if regulators determine that our profits in one jurisdiction may need to be increased, we may not be able to fully utilize all foreign tax credits that are generated, which will increase our effective tax rate. For example, our corp orate income tax rate in the United States is 35%. If our profitability in a higher tax jurisdiction, such as Japan where the corporate tax rate is currently set at 45%, increases disproportionately to the rest of our business, our effective tax rate may increase. The various customs, exchange control and transfer pricing laws are continually changing and are subject to the interpretation of government agencies. Despite our efforts to be aware of and comply with such laws and changes to and interpretations thereof, there is a risk that we may not continue to operate in compliance with such laws. We may need to adjust our operating procedures in response to such changes, and as a result, our business may suffer. - 36 - In addition, due to the international nature of our business, we are subject from time to time to reviews and audits by the foreign taxing authorities of other jurisdictions in which we conduct business throughout the world. We may be held responsible for certain taxes or assessments relating to the activities of our distributors, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our distributors are subject to taxation, and in some instances, legislation or governmental agencies impose an obligation on us to collect taxes, such as value added taxes, and to maintain appropriate records. In addition, we are subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of being responsible for social security and similar taxes with respect to our distributors. In the event that local laws and regulations or the interpretation of local laws and regulations change to require us to treat our independent distributors as employees, or that our distributors are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rather than independent contractors under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for social security and related taxes in those jurisdictions, plus any related assessments and penalties, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. If our distributors were deemed to be employees rather than independent contractors, we would also face the threat of increased vicarious liability for their actions. Production difficulties and quality control problems could harm our business. Production difficulties and quality control problems and our reliance on third party suppliers to deliver quality products in a timely manner could harm our business. Occasionally, we have experienced production difficulties with respect to our products, including the import or export of ingredients and delivery of products that do not meet our specifications and quality control standards. These quality problems have resulted in the past, and could result in the future, in stock outages or shortages in our markets with respect to such products, harming our sales and creating inventory write-offs for unusable products. Beginning with the 2009 launch of our ageLOC Transformation skin care system, we have launched new products globally on a condensed schedule, which has increased pressure on our supply chain. If we are not able to accurately forecast sales levels on a market by market basis, or are unable to produce a sufficient supply to meet such demand globally, we may incur higher expedited shipping costs and we may experience stockouts, which could negatively impact the enthusiasm of our distributors. However, if we over forecast demand for a global product launch, we could incur increased write-offs. The loss of or a disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2010, our principal properties consist of distribution centers where offices are located and where finished merchandise is packed and shipped to distributors in fulfillment of their orders, our worldwide headquarters, three research and development facilities and 40 retail stores and manufacturing facilities in mainland China. Additionally, we also use third party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our products. As a company engaged in manufacturing, distribution and research and development on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, fires, strikes and other labor or industrial disputes, disruptions in logistics or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing or distribution sites, product quality contr ol, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory or government issues, as well as natural disasters, pandemics, border disputes, acts of terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. These risks may be exacerbated by our efforts to increase facility consolidation covering our manufacturing, distribution and supply footprints or if we are unable to successfully enhance our disaster recovery planning. The loss of, or damage to, any of our facilities or centers, or that of our third party manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. - 37 - Disruptions to transportation channels that we use to distribute our products to international warehouses may adversely affect our margins and profitability in those markets. We may experience disruptions to the transportation channels used to distribute our products, including increased airport and shipping port congestion, a lack of transportation capacity, increased fuel expenses, and a shortage of manpower. Disruptions in our container shipments may result in increased costs, including the additional use of airfreight to meet demand. Although we have not recently experienced significant shipping disruptions, we continue to watch for signs of upcoming congestion. Congestion to ports can affect previously negotiated contracts with shipping companies, resulting in unexpected increases in shipping costs and reduction in our net sales. We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of the services provided by any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management, many of whom would be difficult to replace. In addition, expatriates serve in key management positions in several of our foreign markets, including Japan and China. These employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. We may not be able to successfully retain existing personnel or identify, hire and integrate new personnel. We do not carry key person insurance for any of our personnel. Although we have signed offer letters or written agreements summarizing the compensation terms for some of our senior executives, we have generally not entered into formal employment agreements with our executive officers. If we lose the services of our executive officers or key employees for any reason, our business, financial c ondition and results of operations could be harmed. Our markets are intensely competitive, and market conditions and the strengths of competitors may harm our business. The markets for our products are intensely competitive. Our results of operations may be harmed by market conditions and competition in the future. Many competitors have much greater name recognition and financial resources than we have, which may give them a competitive advantage. For example, our Nu Skin products compete directly with branded, premium retail products. We also compete with other direct selling organizations. Some of the leading direct selling companies in our existing markets are Herbalife, Mary Kay, Oriflame, Melaleuca, Avon and Amway. Because of regulatory restrictions concerning claims about the efficacy of personal care products and dietary supplements, we may have difficulty differentiating our products from our competitors’ products, and competing products entering the personal care and nutritional market could harm our revenue. We also compete with other network marketing companies for distributors. Some of these competitors have a longer operating history and greater visibility, name recognition and financial resources than we do. Some of our competitors have also adopted and could continue to adopt some of our successful business strategies, including our global compensation plan for distributors. Consequently, to successfully compete in this market and attract and retain distributors, we must ensure that our business opportunities and compensation plans are financially rewarding. We are beginning our 27th year in this industry and believe we have significant competitive advantages, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete in every endeavor in this marke t. - 38 - Any future acquisitions may expose us to additional risks. From time to time we review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. The financing for any of these acquisitions could dilute the interests of our stockholders, result in an increase in our indebtedness or both. Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including: ▪ difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses and disruption to our direct selling channel; ▪ diversion of management’s attention from our core business; ▪ adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; and ▪ risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience. Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms. Product liability claims could harm our business. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly or actually caused by our products. Although historically we have had a very limited number and relatively low financial exposure from product claims, we have experienced difficulty in finding insurers that are willing to provide product liability coverage at reasonable rates due to insurance industry trends and the rising cost of insurance generally. As a result, we have elected to self-insure our product liability risks for our product lines. Until we elect and are able at reasonable rates to obtain product liability insurance, if any of our products are found to cause any injury or damage, we will be subject to the full amount of liability associated with any injuries or damages. This liability could be substantial and may exceed our reserves. We cannot predict if and when pr oduct liability insurance will be available to us on reasonable terms. We are involved, and may become involved in the future, in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could adversely affect our financial results. We are and may in the future become party to litigation. In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly affect financial results. We are currently vigorously contesting certain of these litigation claims. However, it is not possible to predict the final resolution of the litigation to which we currently are or may in the future become party to, and the impact of certain of these matters on our business, results of operations and financial condition could be material. Our intellectual property may infringe on the rights of others, resulting in costly litigation. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, there has been an increase in the filing of suits alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, which pressure defendants into entering settlement arrangements quickly to dispose of such suits, regardless of their merit. Other companies or individuals may allege that we, our customers, licensees or other parties indemnified by us infringe on their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, defending such intellectual property litigation can be costly, distract manag ement’s attention and resources, and the outcome is inherently uncertain. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. Any of these results may adversely affect our financial condition. - 39 - If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our product innovations and our brand equity. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality and other types of agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries, including many emerging markets, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our patents and trademarks may be substantial. We have filed patent applications to protect our intellectual property rights in our new technologies, however, there can be no assurance that our patent applications will be approved, that any patents issued will adequately protect our intellectual property, or that such patents will not be challenged by third parties or found by a judicial authority to be invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, many of our products rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. In order to protect or enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties, such as patent infringement suits or interference proceedings. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our financial condition. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could, however, be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. Our employees may leave to work for competitors. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may be disclosed to or otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our current or former employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by ot hers in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and adversely affect our financial condition. - 40 - We may be subject to claims that our employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of former employers of our employees. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other personal care product or nutritional supplement companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent that our employees are involved in research areas that are similar to those in which they were involved with their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. System failures could harm our business. Because of our diverse geographic operations and our complex distributor compensation plan, our business is highly dependent on efficiently functioning information technology systems. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, earthquakes, telecommunications failures and other events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. We have adopted and implemented a Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery Plan. Our primary data sets are archived and stored at third-party secure sites. We have set up a recovery site for certain critical data and operations related to our distributors and we are currently setting up a recovery site for certain other critical data and operations. Despite these precautions, the occurrence of a natural disaster o r other unanticipated problems could result in interruptions in services and reduce our revenue and profits. Epidemics and other global health risks could negatively impact our business. Our revenue was negatively impacted in 2003 by the SARS epidemic that hit Asia during that year. It is difficult to predict the impact on our business, if any, of a recurrence of SARS, or the emergence of new epidemics, such as avian flu or H1N1 flu. Although such events could generate increased sales of health and immune supplements and certain personal care products, our direct selling and retail activities and results of operations could be harmed if the fear of any communicable and rapidly spreading disease results in travel restrictions or causes people to avoid group meetings or gatherings or interaction with other people. In addition, most of our Pharmanex nutritional supplement revenue is generated from products that are encapsulated in bovine- and/or porcine-sourced gel capsules. If we experience production difficulties, quality control problems, or shortages in supply in connection with bovine or porcine related health concerns, this could result in additional risk of product shortages or write-offs of inventory that no longer can be used. We may be unable to introduce our products in some markets if we are unable to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or if any product ingredients are prohibited, which could harm our business. The market price of our Class A common stock is subject to significant fluctuations due to a number of factors that are beyond our control. Our Class A common stock closed at $9.64 per share on February 2, 2009 and closed at $31.21 per share on February 1, 2011. During this two-year period, our Class A common stock traded as low as $7.90 per share and as high as $33.99 per share. Many factors could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fall. Some of these factors include: ▪ fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; - 41 - ▪ the sale of shares of Class A common stock by our original or significant stockholders; ▪ general trends in the market for our products; ▪ acquisitions by us or our competitors; ▪ economic and/or currency exchange issues in markets in which we operate; ▪ changes in estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; and ▪ general business and political conditions. Broad market fluctuations could also lower the market price of our Class A common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. If our stockholders sell a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, the market price of our Class A common stock could fall. Several of our principal stockholders hold a large number of shares of the outstanding Class A common stock. Some of the original stockholders have actively sold shares during the last year. Additional sales by these stockholders or a decision by any of the other principal stockholders to aggressively sell shares could depress the market price of our Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 62.1 million shares of Class A common stock outstanding. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 