RISK FACTORS The impact of the current global economic turmoil and any further deterioration of global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We sell our products and services in various countries all over the world. Consequently, our sales and profitability are dependent on general economic conditions globally and locally. The recent weakening of consumer and corporate confidence, declining income and asset values in many areas and other adverse factors related to the current deteriorating global economic conditions, aggravated by the unprecedented currency volatility, have resulted and may continue to result in our current and potential customers as well as the end-users of our products, services and solutions, postponing or reducing spending on our products, services and solutions. For example, some customers may postpone new projects or choose not to upgrade their license. - 2 - The global financial crisis has also led to more limited availability of credit which may have a negative impact on the financial condition, and in particular on the purchasing ability, of some of our customers and may also result in requests for extended payment terms, credit losses, insolvencies, limited ability to respond to demand or diminished sales channels available to us. The general difficult economic conditions combined with tightening credit markets may also cause financial difficulties for our suppliers and collaborative partners which may result in their failure to perform as planned and, consequently, in delays in the delivery of our products, services and solutions. The current downturn had led us to shut down our China operations and to terminate the employment of approximately 30 employees, in our China facilities, However, we are currently operating in China through our local distributor. The difficult global economic conditions may also result in inefficiencies due to our reduced ability to forecast developments in our industry and plan our operations accordingly. Also, continuing difficult general economic conditions, negative developments in our industry, any significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future results by us or any part of our business, or any significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business may cause reductions in the future valuations of our investments and assets and result in impairment charges related to goodwill or other assets. Adverse economic conditions affecting us, our current and potential customers, their spending on our products, services and solutions, and our suppliers and collaborative partners may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For a more detailed discussion of the termination of our China operations, see “Information About the Company – Recent Developments.” For a more detailed discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, see “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Due to difficulties to make our debt payments we had to restructure the terms of our debentures and may not be able to make our debt payments in the future. In December 2006, through the issuance of convertible debentures, we raised net proceeds of NIS 61,900 thousand (approximately $14,800 thousand at the date of issuance). Out of this amount the Company repurchased approximately NIS 17,500 thousand (face value) of the debentures. As of December 31, 2009 the balance of outstanding debt under the debenture is approximately $11,760 thousand. The Company has agreed with its debenture holders on principles of a settlement regarding the payments of the principal and interest of the Company's debentures and adding an option of early repayment, for the Company on certain terms. These principles were approved at a debenture's holders' meeting on January 14, 2010. The Company is currently negotiating with the debenture's trustee, the amendment of the indenture and once such amendment is agreed, will request that the court to convene another debenture's holders' meeting in order to approve the indenture Amendment. The Company and the trustee are currently acting in accordance with the approved principles. The first payment of principal under those debentures for approximately NIS 11,090 thousand (approximately $2,940 thousand as of the payment date) was due December 31, 2009 together with $9 thousand of interest payments. Since making such payment would have had an adverse affect on our cash flow, we agreed with the holders of our debentures on the principles of a settlement regarding the payments of the principal and interest of the debentures that includes an option to the Company for early repayment. Those principles were approved at a debenture holders' meeting on January 14, 2010. We are currently negotiating the amendment of the debenture indenture with the debenture trustee, once agreement is reached, we will a sk the court to convene another debenture holders' meeting in order to approve the agreement. We and the trustee are currently acting in accordance with those principles. According to those principles the first principal payment described above was divided to three installments as follows :On December 31,2009 we paid NIS 5,912 thousand out of which NIS 34 thousand are interest expenses (approximately $1,561 thousand which consisted of $1,552 of principal payment plus $9 thousand of interest payment) and on January 31, 2010 we paid NIS 2,040 thousand out of which NIS 39 thousand are interest expenses (approximately $541 thousand which consisted of $531 thousand of principal payment and $10 thousand of interest payment which pursuant to the terms of the arrangement was set at a rate of 9% for the postponement period). The remainder of the first payment NIS 3,211 thousand (approximately $855 thousand) is due by June 30, 2010 with an annual interest rate of 9% for t he postponement period. - 3 - According to the agreed principles, the rest of the principal amounts (approximately NIS 33,300 thousand or $8,820 thousand) will be paid in seven equal annual installments of NIS 4,757 thousand each (approximately $1,260 thousand). The Company may postpone the payment of the second payment of the principal until June 30, 2011. Any payment made at a date which is later than the payment date determined in the original terms of the debentures carries a 9% annual interest on the postponement period. For a more detailed discussion of the debenture arrangement , see “Information About the Company – Recent Developments.” Our ability to meet our obligations under the convertible debentures and our other debt obligations will depend on whether we can implement our strategy as well as on financial, competitive and other factors including factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet principal and interest payments on our debt, we may have to refinance all or part of our convertible debentures. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness, including the convertible debentures, will depend on, among other things: · our financial condition at the time; · restrictions in agreements governing our debt; and · other factors, including market conditions. We cannot ensure that any such refinancing will be available on terms acceptable to us. The global financial crisis has led to a more limited availability of credit and, as a result, refinancing has become even more difficult. If we are unable to meet our obligations under the restructured convertible debentures and refinancing will not available, we may have to sell assets under circumstances that might not yield the highest prices, or default on our debt obligations, including the convertible debentures. In the event of such default, our debenture holders and holders of other outstanding indebtedness may accelerate their maturity dates. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations have increased with the issuance of the convertible debentures in 2006, which may adversely affect our cash flow, cash position and share price. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from existing cash, investments and our operations. In the future, if we are unable to generate cash or raise additional cash financings sufficient to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund these obligations, we may have to delay or curtail research and development programs. Our indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, without limitation: · requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash flow to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including funding our research and development programs and other capital expenditures; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and · placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. - 4 - Our expansion through acquisitions, including our recent purchases of Capture Projects Ltd. (“CPL”) and Asiasoft Global could lead to increased expenditures and integration costs, and could strain management, financial, and operational resources. In 2007, we acquired related complementary businesses, in an effort to expand capacity, enter new markets and diversify our sources of revenue. In 2007, we acquired CPL, a provider of document management solutions in the United Kingdom, and also acquired a 51% holding in Asiasoft, a holding Company of a group of subsidiaries and affiliated companies in China, Hong-Kong and Singapore, which are information technology solutions providers. In January 2009 we acquired the remaining 49% of the Asiasoft shares. These expenditures had strained management, financial and operational resources. The acquisition of 49% of the Asiasoft shares was financed by issuance of our ordinary shares to the seller. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurring of additional debt, the assumption of known and unknown liabilities, the amortization of expenses related to intangible assets and the impairment of goodwill, all of which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Acquisitions in foreign countries may pose additional problems, and we may experience inefficiencies in conducting our business as we integrate new operations and manage geographically dispersed operations. Also, the acquired businesses may not yield the income and levels of activity we expected them to yield, which may result in losses. In 2009, we concluded the termination of our China operations by shutting down our facility in Shanghai after terminating our Guangzhou operations in 2008. We believe that our business has not fully matured for that part of the Chinese market. However, we are currently operating in China through our local distributor. Additionally, we may not succeed in retaining or hiring qualified management, sales, customer support, and technical personnel to integrate acquired operations, manage future growth effectively, and accomplish our overall objectives. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we expand too fast, or fail to integrate our recently acquired businesses or other new businesses, or lose key personnel from our recently acquired businesses or other businesses, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial condition. The market for data capture systems and automatic form processing systems is highly competitive. The market for data capture systems in general, and for automatic form processing systems in particular, is characterized by intense competition, significant price erosion over the life of the product, and rapidly changing business conditions, customer requirements, and technology. Our products compete with those developed and marketed by numerous well-established companies including EMC (Captiva Software), Mitek, Banctec, Kofax (formerly, Dicom Group), Datacap, and ReadSoft, as well as with manual data entry systems. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial resources than we do. Furthermore, certain of these competitors are industry leaders with the financial resources necessary to enable them to withstand substantial price competition or downturns in the market fo r computer software. The fact that our resources are more limited places us at a significant disadvantage. This risk is particularly acute during difficult economic times. A slowdown in our customers’ industries could adversely impact the sale of our products and our prospects of achieving or maintaining profitability. A slowdown in the industries to which we sell our products would likely result in significantly reduced product demand, erosion of selling prices and overcapacity. Such a downturn could materially reduce demand for the products and technology that we offer. In addition, our ability to reduce expenses in response to any downturn or slowdown in such industries may be limited because of: · our continuing need to invest in research and development; · our capital equipment requirements; and · marketing requirements. - 5 - Our success depends on our strategic marketing relationships and the marketing and distribution efforts of our distributors and other strategic partners. Our business and prospects depend upon our ability to maintain our existing, and to develop additional, strategic marketing relationships and upon the marketing and distribution efforts of our distributors and other strategic partners. The loss or diminishment of our relationship with any one of our significant strategic partners could have a material and adverse effect on our existing operations and growth prospects. We normally attempt to recruit distributors with established distribution channels and reputations for marketing and installing document imaging, data capture and workflow systems to market our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop such relationships. Our industry is marked by rapid technological changes and frequent new or updated product introductions, and if we do not respond to such rapid technological changes, new product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards, our products and services could become obsolete. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability to offer state-of-the-art products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our product decisions must anticipate the changing demand for products. If we are unable to develop, modify and enhance our existing technology to respond to such changing standards and customer demands, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, the development of new technologies, new product introductions or enhancements by our competitors could adversely affect our sales. We have had a history of losses and may incur future losses. Since our inception in March 1991, we have incurred net losses in every year other than in 1995, 1997, 1998, 2006 and 2008, and our losses may continue. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $25,539 thousand. We plan to maintain the level of our aggregate product development expenses. We cannot assure you that our revenues will grow or that we will achieve positive profitability in the future. Failure to increase revenues could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial results. We have a history of quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations and expect these fluctuations to continue, this may cause our stock price to decline. We have experienced and expect to experience in the future significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. Our lengthy sales cycle increases our exposure to customer cancellations or delays in orders, which may result in volatile quarterly revenues. Given the high average selling price of, and the cost and time required to implement our solutions, a customer’s decision to license our products typically involves a significant commitment of resources and is influenced by the customer’s budget cycles and internal approval procedures for information technology purchases. In addition, selling our solutions requires us to educate potential customers about our solutions’ uses and benefits. As a result, our solutions have a long sales cycle, which can take 9 to 12 months or more. Consequently, we have difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers may occur. ; The sale of our solutions is also subject to delays from the lengthy budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes of our customers, which typically accompany significant capital expenditures. Other factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations include: · the size, timing and shipment of orders; · customer deferral of orders in anticipation of new products, product upgrades or price enhancements; · the high level of competition that we encounter; and · the timing of our product introductions, upgrades or enhancements or those of our competitors or of providers of complementary products. - 6 - Fluctuations in our quarterly results could discourage investors and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Large customers constitute a significant portion of our orders. Sales to large customers have historically accounted for a significant part of our sales. In 2009, sales to one customer accounted for 11% of our total revenue, and no other customer to which sales accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in 2007 and 2008. If we are unable in the future to complete sales to large customers, our business, prospects and financial results could be adversely affected. Our success depends on our key personnel. Our success depends upon the contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel. All of our key management and technical personnel have expertise, which is in high demand among our competitors, and the loss of any of these individuals could cause our business to suffer. We do not as a general matter maintain key person life insurance policies on our officers, directors and key employees. Our solutions require a sophisticated sales effort targeted at senior management of our prospective customers. New employees in our sales department require extensive training and typically take several months to achieve full productivity. There is no assurance that new sales representatives will ultimately become productive. If we were to lose qualified and productive sales personnel, our revenues could be adversely impacted. Our success depends on our proprietary software technology. Our success depends upon our proprietary software technology. Although we believe that our technology has been developed independently and does not infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we cannot assure you that the technology does not and will not infringe or that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. In the case of infringement, we would, under certain circumstances, be required to modify our products or obtain a license. We cannot assure you that we would be able to do so either in a timely manner under acceptable terms and conditions or at all, or that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to defend successfully a patent infringement or other proprietary rights infringement action. Further, even if we were not infringing, in tellectual property litigation is expensive and time consuming for management. Failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, if our products or technologies are deemed to infringe upon the rights of others, or if infringement claims are asserted against third parties whom we are obligated to indemnify, we could become liable for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We license components of our software systems and technology from third parties in reliance on such parties’ representations as to ownership of the licensed intellectual property. If our licensors are found not to own or have rights to sublicense such rights to us and we are unable to replace the licensed technology with a comparable substitute, there could be a material adverse effect on our business prospects and financial results. Even if we were to replace licensed technology with available alternatives, it could take time to identify the best replacement and integrate it into our software. The delay and uncertainly could negatively impact our financial results. Yehezkel Yeshurun, our former Chief Scientist and our former member of our board of directors, was, at the time of his employment with us (which terminated in January 2001), a Professor of the Tel Aviv University Computer Science Department ("the University") where he conducted research in the areas of computer vision, neural computation and robotics. While the University consented to Prof. Yeshurun’s employment by us and has not asserted any claim that intellectual property developed by Prof. Yeshurun on our behalf belongs to the University, the University has not acknowledged our rights to any intellectual property developed by Prof. Yeshurun. We cannot assure you that the University will not assert a claim for such intellectual property rights in the future or that the University does not have any rights to such intellectual property. - 7 - Our inability to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our competitive position and, consequently, our business and operations. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely upon trade secret protection, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our confidential and proprietary information. Despite these efforts, we cannot be certain that others will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or copy and use information that we regard as proprietary without our authorization. We have not obtained any patents and we cannot assure you that we will obtain any patents. In addition, we cannot assure you that: · any patents which we may obtain will be broad enough to protect our technology, will provide us with competitive advantages or will escape challenge or invalidation by third parties; or · others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or, if patents are issued to us, design around these patents. Further, the laws of foreign jurisdictions where we sell and seek to sell our products may afford little or no protection of our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the protection provided to our intellectual property rights by the laws and courts of foreign nations will be substantially similar to the remedies available under U.S. law. If we are unable to achieve and maintain a leading position and to build awareness of our brands, we may not be able to compete effectively against competitors with greater name recognition and our sales could be adversely affected. If we are unable to economically achieve and maintain a leading position in data recognition software or to promote and maintain our brands, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. Development and awareness of our brands will depend largely on our success in increasing our customer base. In order to attract and retain customers and to promote and maintain our brands in response to competitive pressures, we may be required to increase our marketing and advertising budget or increase our other sales expenses. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be sufficient or that we will be successful in attracting and retaining customers or promoting our brands. Failure in this regard could harm our business and results of operations. Our products may contain defects, damaging our reputation, causing a loss of customers, requiring us to allocate significant time and financial resources to correct, and potentially resulting in liability claims. Our products may contain undetected errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In the past, we have discovered minor software bugs in certain products after they were released to the market. Such errors or defects could require us to divert financial and other resources to correct the problems. In addition, our products are combined with complex products developed by other vendors. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source or sources of the problems. Defects and errors, or end-user perception of defects and errors, found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of these products after commencement of commercial shipments may result in: · damage to brand reputation; · loss of customers; · delay in market acceptance of current and future products; · diversion of development and engineering resources to correct defects or errors; and · warranty or product liability claims. Although the Company has product liability insurance, defects, errors or successful product liability claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial results. For additional information on our warranty policy, see the subsection below entitled “Warranty and service.” - 8 - We engage in international sales, which expose us to a number of foreign political and economic risks. We engage in international sales, which are subject to a number of risks that could seriously impede our financial condition and growth. As a result of our product sales in various geographic regions, which we may expand in the future to new geographic regions, we are subject to the risks associated with international sales, including license requirements, economic and political instability, terrorism, shipping delays, customs duties, export quotas and other trade restrictions, any of which could have a significant impact on our ability to deliver products on a competitive and timely basis and exacerbate the risks inherent in our business. Approximately 70% of our revenues in 2009 were generated from sales made in Europe. If this trend continues, we may be more particularly exposed to the risk of losing business and revenue s as a result of trade restrictions imposed by the European Union. Our capital requirements have historically been significant and we may not in the future be able to meet our requirements with our working capital. Historically, our capital requirements have been significant. We may in the future require additional financing to fund our operations and capital requirements beyond our current resources and these that may be provided from our operations. In such event, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us when needed, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We have no expectation that our existing shareholders will provide any portion of our future financing requirements. Any inability to obtain additional financing when needed would have a material adverse effect on us, requiring us to curtail our expansion efforts. In addition, to the extent that we incur substantial indebtedness, we will be subject to risks associated with incurring substantial indebtedness, inclu ding the risk that interest rates may fluctuate, and cash may be insufficient to repay interest and principal on any such indebtedness. Any additional equity financing may involve substantial dilution of the interests of our then-existing shareholders. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel may adversely affect our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products. Because our principal offices are located in Israel, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. There has been a marked increase in such hostility and a significant deterioration of Israel’s relationship with the Palestinian community since October 2000, and especially since Hamas, an Islamic movement responsible for many attacks against Israelis, has led government of the Palestinian Authority. Such hostility has culminated in the recent armed conflict in the Gaza Strip in January 2009. Continuing or escalating hostilities in the region or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners may have an adverse effect on our business conditions, including our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligation of key personnel to perform military service. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually. Moreover, in the event of armed conflict in which Israel is involved or the threat of such conflict, our executive officers and employees might be called for active military duty for an unlimited period of time. Increased military activity could also result in a reduction of prospective qualified employees available to work for us to expand our business or replace employees on active military duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of our executive officers or key employees as a result of military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our ability to develop and market products. We may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We maintain operations and generate revenues in a number of countries. The results of operations and the financial position of our local operations are generally reported in the relevant local currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, exposing us to currency translation risk. In addition, we are exposed to currency transaction risk because some of our expenses are incurred in a different currency from the currency in which our revenues are received. Our most significant currency exposures are to the Euro, New Israeli Shekel, British Pound, Singapore dollar, Australian dollar and Japanese yen. In periods when the U.S. dollar weaken against these other currencies, our reported results of operations may be adve rsely affected. Although from time to time we may purchase forward exchange contracts to reduce currency transaction risk, these purchases will not eliminate translation risk or all currency risk. - 9 - In addition, our convertible debentures, issued in December 2006, are payable in New Israeli Shekels and are linked to U.S dollar with a floor on the NIS/U.S Dollar exchange rate of 4.2. Since the date of issuance of the debentures, the U.S. dollar has been significantly fluctuated against the NIS. We might need to use more U.S. dollars to make the payments of the debentures, if the U.S. dollar will lose value against NIS while the debentures are payable. We may not be able to expand our personnel or marketing efforts quickly enough to support our growth. Because of our small size and our business strategy to increase our sales. To the extent that our efforts to generate new business and increase demand for our products and services are successful, we will need to accurately estimate our need for personnel or marketing and customer support, or we may not be able to support our future growth. For example, if we are successful in our efforts to obtain significant orders for our products, we may be required to install and service, on a timely basis, large numbers of installations at our customers’ locations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to provide such services on adequate terms and conditions or at all. Furthermore, in order to remain competitive and keep our products up to date, we need to continue to attract and retain a qu alified team of employees. If we fail to obtain the human resources our business requires, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, and financial results. Government grants we received for research and development expenditures may be reduced or eliminated in the future due to Israeli government budget cuts. Furthermore, our receipt of such grants limits our ability to develop products and transfer technologies outside of Israel, and require us to satisfy specified conditions. In the past, we have received grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry Trade and Labor, or the OCS, under the Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984 for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. The Israeli government may decide not to continue the program in the future at its current level or to terminate it altogether. The terms of the OCS grants limit our ability to develop products and transfer technologies outside of Israel without the prior approval of the OCS, if such products or technologies were developed using OCS grants. Such approval, if granted, will generally be subject to additional financial obligations. In addition, if we fail to comply w ith any of the conditions imposed by the OCS, including the payment of royalties with respect to grants received, we may be required to refund any payments previously received from the OCS, together with interest and penalties. See also “Governmental Regulation” in Item 5 herein. If we fail to satisfy the condition specified by our “Approved Enterprise” program, we may be denied benefits to which we are currently entitled to in the future. The Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry Trade and Labor has granted us “Approved Enterprise” status to certain development programs under The Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, or the Investment Law. The benefits available to an Approved Enterprise program are dependent upon the continuing fulfillment of ongoing conditions stipulated under applicable law and in the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, benefits from tax exemptions or reduced tax rates would likely be denied us in the future. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the Investment Law came into effect (the “Amendment”) that significantly changed the provisions of the Investment Law. The Amendment limits the scope of enterprises which may be approved by the Investment Center by setting criteria for the approval of a facility as an Approved Enterprise, such as provisions generally requiring that at least 25% of the Approved Enterprise’s income will be derived from export. Additionally, the Amendment enacted major changes in the manner in which tax benefits are awarded under the Investment Law so that companies no longer require Investment Center approval in order to qualify for tax benefits. - 10 - However, the Investment Law provides that terms and benefits included in any certificate of approval already granted will remain subject to the provisions of the law as they were on the date of such approval. Therefore, our existing Approved Enterprise status will generally not be subject to the provisions of the Amendment. As a result of the amendment, tax-exempt income generated under the provisions of the new law will subject us to taxes upon distribution or liquidation and we may be required to record deferred tax liability with respect to such tax-exempt income. As of December 31, 2009, we had not generated income subject to the provisions of the amendment. Our ordinary shares have been subject to frequent significant price fluctuations. If we fail to maintain minimum bid requirements, we could be delisted. Our ordinary shares are quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market ("NASDAQ”), and have been subject to frequent significant price fluctuations. In addition, trading in shares of companies listed on the NASDAQ in general and trading in shares of technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market and industry factors may depress our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. In addition, if we issue additional shares in financings or acquisitions, our shareholders will experience additional dilution and the existence of more shares could decrease the amount that purchasers are willing to pay for our ordinary shares. According to the NASDAQ listing standards if the stock price of a listed company falls below $1.00 a share for a period of 10 consecutive business days, such company’s stock may be subject to delisting unless such failure is cured within 180 days from the date on which NASDAQ notifies to the listed company of such failure. On September 16, 2009 we received a letter from NASDAQ advising us that our stock has been trading at a price that would subject our stock to delisting if we fail to regain compliance with the NASDAQ minimum bid price requirements. We regained compliance on February 16, 2010. On May 24, 2010 we received additional notice from NASDAQ advisi ng us that our stock has been trading at a price that would subject our stock to delisting if we fail to regain compliance with the NASDAQ minimum stock price requirements. If we cannot regain compliance within the required 180-day period, our stock may be subject to delisting. If our stock will be delisted from NASDAQ we will lose our status as a “dually listed company” which will result in us being subject to more stringent reporting requirements in the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange which may cause an increase in our reporting related costs and expenses. In addition, if our securities were to be delisted from the NASDAQ, our ordinary shares could be considered a “penny stock” under federal securities law. Additional regulatory requirements apply to trading by broker-dealers of penny stocks that could result in the loss of an effective trading market for our securities. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is effected in different currencies (US dollars on the NASDAQ and New Israeli Shekels on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange) and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ, resulting from the factors described above as well as differences in exchange rates and from political events and economic conditions in the United States and Israel. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. - 11 - We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance operations and to expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The application and/or amendment of Israeli laws or laws of other countries may adversely affect our ability to enforce judgments or other rights. Because our principal offices are located in Israel, we are subject to Israeli law. Many of our contracts with third parties are subject to the laws of other jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that any judgments granted in the United States or any jurisdiction other than Israel would be capable of enforcement or execution in Israel. Nor can we assure you that any of our contracts pursuant to the laws of any foreign country are enforceable by us. The inability to enforce or execute judgments or other rights and/or the possibility of the laws of various jurisdictions being amended from time to time may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, and financial condition. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by the Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999, or the Companies Law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, pursuant to the Companies Law each shareholder of an Israeli company has to act in good faith in exercising its rights and fulfilling its obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders and class meetings, on amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers, an d transactions requiring shareholders’ approval under the Companies Law. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company, or has other powers toward the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on NASDAQ, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on NASDAQ, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Listing Rules. As a foreign private issuer listed on NASDAQ, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors and quorum at shareholders' meetings. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer's home country certifying that the issuer's practices are not prohibited by the home country's laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission eac h such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ's corporate governance rules. - 12 - Provisions of Israeli law could delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. The Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and by the shareholders of a participating company by the vote of a majority of the shares of each class present and voting on the proposed merger. The Companies Law has specific provisions for determining the majority of the shareholder vote. Upon the request of any creditor of a constituent in the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy its obligations to creditors. In general, a merger may not be completed until the passage of certain statutory time periods. In certain circumstances, an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer that complies with certain require ments of the Companies Law that differ from those that apply to U.S. corporations. Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which, if public trading in our ordinary shares resumes, could depress our share price. Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete, and, therefore, we may be unable to prevent competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. In general, we have entered into non-competition agreements with our employees in Israel. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under current law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise that our former employees gained while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer that have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to our material interests, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. We are a foreign private issuer and you will receive less information about us than you would from a domestic U.S. corporation. As a “foreign private issuer”, we are exempt from rules under the Exchange Act that impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements in connection with proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders also are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder with respect to their purchases and sales of our shares. In addition, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. As a result, you may not be able to obtain the same information relating to us as you would for a domestic U.S. corporation. Although our internal control over financial reporting was considered effective as of December 31, 2009, there is no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to be effective in the future, which could result in our financial statements being unreliable, government investigation or loss of investor confidence in our financial reports. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us. Our efforts to comply with the management assessment requirements of Section 404(a), which applied to us for the first time in 2007, have resulted in an increase of our general and administrative expenses and a devotion of management time and attention to compliance activities, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. We may also identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting has not yet bee n audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. In the future, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls are effective; our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities. - 13 - Conversion of the convertible debentures would dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. The conversion of some or all of the convertible debentures would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of our ordinary shares issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect the prevailing market prices of our ordinary shares. In addition, the existence of the convertible debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the convertible notes could depress the price of our ordinary shares. 