Item 1A. Risk Factors. In the discussion of risk factors set forth below, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "we," "our" and "us" refer to the Company. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K and other documents filed by us and/or our subsidiaries with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating OGE Energy and its subsidiaries. Such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us or our subsidiaries. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business operations. REGULATORY RISKS OG&E's profitability depends to a large extent on the ability to fully recover its costs from its customers and there may be changes in the regulatory environment that impair its ability to recover costs from its customers. OG&E is subject to comprehensive regulation by several Federal and state utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences its operating environment and its ability to fully recover its costs from utility customers. Recoverability of any under recovered amounts from OG&E's customers due to a rise in fuel costs is a significant risk. The utility commissions in the states where OG&E operates regulate many aspects of its utility operations including siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that OG&E can charge customers. The profitability of the utility operations is dependent on OG&E's ability to fully recover costs related to providing energy and utility services to its customers. In recent years, the regulatory environments in which OG&E operates have received an increased amount of attention. It is possible that there could be changes in the regulatory environment that would impair OG&E's ability to fully recover costs historically paid by OG&E's customers. State utility commissions generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met. OG&E cannot assure that the OCC, APSC and the FERC will grant rate increases in the future or in the amounts requested, and they could instead lower OG&E's rates. OG&E is unable to predict the impact on its operating results from the future regulatory activities of any of the agencies that regulate OG&E. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on OG&E's results of operations. 26OG&E's rates are subject to rate regulation by the states of Oklahoma and Arkansas, as well as by a Federal agency, whose regulatory paradigms and goals may not be consistent. OG&E is currently a vertically integrated electric utility and most of its revenue results from the sale of electricity to retail customers subject to bundled rates that are approved by the applicable state utility commission and from the sale of electricity to wholesale customers subject to rates and other matters approved by the FERC. OG&E operates in Oklahoma and western Arkansas and is subject to rate regulation by the OCC and the APSC, in addition to the FERC. Exposure to inconsistent state and Federal regulatory standards may limit our ability to operate profitably. Further alteration of the regulatory landscape in which we operate, including a change in our return on equity, may harm our financial position and results of operations. Costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations are significant and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations, consolidated financial position, or liquidity. We are subject to extensive Federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife conservation, natural resources and health and safety that could, among other things, restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or the use of certain fuels required for the production of electricity and/or require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase costs. There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations and those costs may be even more significant in the future. As discussed in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Laws and Regulations", in 2011, the EPA accepted a portion of the Oklahoma SIP for regional haze, which requires the installation of low NOX burners on OG&E's affected units within five years at a cost of approximately $95 million. The EPA rejected Oklahoma's SO2 BART determination with respect to the four affected coal-fired units at the Sooner and Muskogee generating stations and issued a FIP in its place. The SO2 emissions standards in the EPA's FIP could require the installation of Dry Scrubbers or fuel switching. OG&E estimates that installing such Dry Scrubbers could cost more than $1.0 billion. OG&E, the state of Oklahoma and other parties, filed an appeal to challenge this determination, which has delayed the implementation of the regional haze rule in Oklahoma. Neither the outcome of the appeal nor the timing of any required expenditures for pollution control equipment can be predicted with any certainty at this time. In response to recent regulatory and judicial decisions, emissions of greenhouse gases including, most significantly, carbon dioxide could be restricted in the future as a result of Federal or state legal requirements or litigation relating to greenhouse gas emissions. If mandatory reductions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases are required in the future, this could result in significant additional compliance costs that would affect our future consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our operations due to our handling of natural gas, air emissions related to our operations and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. These activities are subject to stringent and complex Federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection including the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact OG&E's and Enogex's business activities in many ways, such as restricting the way it can handle or dispose of their wastes or requiring remedial action to mitigate pollution conditions that may be caused by their operations or that are attributable to former operators. OG&E and Enogex may be unable to recover these costs from insurance. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. For a further discussion of environmental matters that may affect the Company, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Environmental Laws and Regulations."We may not be able to recover the costs of our substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions. OG&E's business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades and retrofits and modernizing existing infrastructure as well as other initiatives. Significant portions of OG&E's facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements or to provide reliable operations. OG&E currently provides service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. If these regulatory commissions do not approve adjustments to the rates OG&E charges, it would not be able to recover the costs associated with its planned extensive investment. This could adversely affect OG&E's financial position and results of operations. While OG&E may seek to limit the impact of any denied recovery by attempting to reduce the scope of its 27capital investment, there can no assurance as to the effectiveness of any such mitigation efforts, particularly with respect to previously incurred costs and commitments. Our jurisdictions have fuel clauses that permit us to recover fuel costs through rates without a general rate case. While prudent capital investment and variable fuel costs each generally warrant recovery, in practical terms our regulators could limit the amount or timing of increased costs that we would recover through higher rates. Any such limitation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The construction by Enogex of additions or modifications to its existing systems, and the construction of new midstream assets, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, many of which are beyond Enogex's control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. These projects, once undertaken, may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, Enogex's revenues and cash flows may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if Enogex expands an existing pipeline or constructs a new pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and Enogex may not receive any material increases in revenues or cash flows until the project is completed. In addition, Enogex may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. Since Enogex is not engaged in the exploration of natural gas, Enogex often does not have access to third-party estimates of potential reserves in areas to be developed prior to constructing facilities in those areas. To the extent Enogex relies on estimates of future production in deciding to construct additions to its systems, those estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract sufficient throughput to achieve expected investment return, which could adversely affect Enogex's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the construction of additions to existing gathering and transportation assets may require new rights-of-way prior to construction. Those rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to existing gathering lines may be unavailable and Enogex may not be able to capitalize on attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, Enogex's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. The regional power market in which OG&E operates has changing transmission regulatory structures, which may affect the transmission assets and related revenues and expenses.OG&E currently owns and operates transmission and generation facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. OG&E is a member of the SPP regional transmission organization and has transferred operational authority (but not ownership) of OG&E's transmission facilities to the SPP. The SPP implemented a regional energy imbalance service market on February 1, 2007. OG&E participates in the SPP energy imbalance service market to aid in the optimization of its physical assets to serve OG&E's customers. OG&E has not participated in the SPP energy imbalance service market for any speculative trading activities. The SPP purchases and sales are not allocated to individual customers. OG&E records the hourly sales to the SPP at market rates in Operating Revenues and the hourly purchases from the SPP at market rates in Cost of Goods Sold in its Consolidated Financial Statements. OG&E's revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities may be adversely affected by changes in the organization, operation and regulation by the FERC or the SPP, including the forthcoming SPP integrated marketplace, which is scheduled to begin operation in March 2014. Increased competition resulting from restructuring efforts could have a significant financial impact on us and OG&E and consequently decrease our revenue. We have been and will continue to be affected by competitive changes to the utility and energy industries. Significant changes already have occurred and additional changes have been proposed to the wholesale electric market. Although retail restructuring efforts in Oklahoma and Arkansas have been postponed for the time being, if such efforts were renewed, retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy service could have a significant financial impact on us due to possible impairments of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins and/or increased costs of capital. Any such restructuring could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot predict when we will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can we predict the impact of these changes on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 28A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of Enogex's assets by Federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of its assets, which may cause its revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Enogex's natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation operations are generally exempt from the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, but the FERC regulation may indirectly impact these businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. The FERC's policies and practices across the range of its oil and natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on interstate open access transportation, ratemaking and capacity release and its promotion of market centers, may indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, the FERC has aggressively pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate oil and natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure that the FERC will continue to pursue these same objectives as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas transportation business. Enogex's natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to regulation by the FERC pursuant to Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act, which could have an adverse impact on its ability to establish transportation and storage rates that would allow it to recover the full cost of operating its transportation and storage facilities, including a reasonable return, and an adverse impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The transportation rates charged by Enogex for transporting natural gas in interstate commerce are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act. Rates to provide such service must be "fair and equitable" under the Natural Gas Policy Act and are subject to review and approval by the FERC at least once every five years (previously a triennial requirement). See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of Enogex's FERC Section 311 rate case. There can be no assurance that the FERC will approve Enogex's requested rates.Enogex's natural gas transportation, storage and gathering operations are subject to regulation by agencies in Oklahoma and Texas, and that regulation could have an adverse impact on its ability to establish rates that would allow it to recover the full cost of operating its facilities, including a reasonable return, and its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. State regulation of natural gas transportation, storage and gathering facilities generally focuses on various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory access requirements and complaint-based rate regulation. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at the state level; therefore, Enogex's natural gas gathering operations could be adversely affected should they become subject to the application of state regulation of rates and services. Enogex's gathering operations could also be subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, construction, testing, operation, replacement and maintenance of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered and, in some instances, adopted from time to time. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on Enogex's operations, but Enogex could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Other state and local regulations also may affect Enogex's business. Any such state regulation could have an adverse impact on Enogex's business and its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Enogex may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline integrity and other similar programs and related repairs. Pursuant to the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, the U.S. Department of Transportation has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for their applicable pipelines. The regulations require operators to:•identify potential threats to the public or environment, including "high consequence areas" on covered pipeline segments where a leak or rupture could do the most harm;•develop a baseline plan to prioritize the assessment of a covered pipeline segment;•gather data and identify and characterize applicable threats that could impact a covered pipeline segment;•discover, evaluate and remediate problems in accordance with the program requirements;•continuously improve all elements of the integrity program;•continuously perform preventative and mitigation actions;•maintain a quality assurance process and management-of-change process; and•establish a communication plan that addresses safety concerns raised by the U.S. Department of Transportation and state agencies, including the periodic submission of performance documents to the U.S. Department of Transportation.29In 2012, Enogex incurred $13.7 million of capital expenditures and operating costs for pipeline integrity management. Enogex currently estimates that it will incur capital expenditures and operating costs of between $100 million and $160 million from 2013 to 2017 in connection with pipeline integrity management. The estimated capital expenditures and operating costs include Enogex's estimates for the assessment, remediation and prevention or other mitigation that may be determined to be necessary. At this time, Enogex cannot predict the ultimate costs of its integrity management program and compliance with this regulation because those costs will depend on the number and extent of any repairs found to be necessary. Enogex will continue to assess, remediate and maintain the integrity of its pipelines. The results of these activities could cause Enogex to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operations of its pipelines. On December 13, 2011, Congress passed the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011, which the President signed into law on January 3, 2012. Among other things, the law requires additional verification of pipeline infrastructure records by Enogex and other intrastate and interstate pipeline owners and operators to confirm the maximum allowable operating pressure of lines located in high consequence areas or more-densely populated areas. Where records are inadequate to confirm the maximum allowable operating pressure, the PHMSA will require the operator to re-confirm the maximum allowable operating pressure, a process that could cause temporary or permanent limitations on throughput for affected pipelines. This law required PHMSA to direct pipeline operators to verify the maximum allowable operating pressure of their pipelines by July 3, 2012, and to submit documentation to PHMSA by July 3, 2013. This law also raises the maximum penalty for violating pipeline safety rules to $0.2 million per violation per day up to $2.0 million for a related series of violations. For further information regarding this Act and potential regulations, see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. At this time, the Company is not able to estimate the capital, operating or other costs that may be required to comply with this law and any related PHMSA regulations that may be promulgated, but such costs could be significant.Events that are beyond our control have increased the level of public and regulatory scrutiny of our industry. Governmental and market reactions to these events may have negative impacts on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and access to capital. As a result of accounting irregularities at public companies in general, and energy companies in particular, and investigations by governmental authorities into energy trading activities, public companies, including those in the regulated and unregulated utility business, have been under an increased amount of public and regulatory scrutiny and suspicion. The accounting irregularities have caused regulators and legislators to review current accounting practices, financial disclosures and relationships between companies and their independent auditors. The capital markets and rating agencies also have increased their level of scrutiny. We believe that we are complying with all applicable laws and accounting standards, but it is difficult or impossible to predict or control what effect these types of events may have on our business, consolidated financial position, cash flows or access to the capital markets. It is unclear what additional laws or regulations may develop, and we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any future changes in accounting regulations or practices in general with respect to public companies, the energy industry or our operations specifically. Any new accounting standards could affect the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. These changes in accounting standards could lead to negative impacts on reported earnings or decreases in assets or increases in liabilities that could, in turn, affect our results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to substantial utility and energy regulation by governmental agencies. Compliance with current and future utility and energy regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits and certifications may result in significant costs to us. We are subject to substantial regulation from Federal, state and local regulatory agencies. We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain permits, approvals and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of our businesses, including customer rates, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices and the operation of generating facilities. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of these agencies. In compliance with the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC approved the North American Electric Reliability Corporation as the national energy reliability organization. The North American Electric Reliability Corporation is responsible for the development and enforcement of mandatory reliability and cyber security standards for the wholesale electric power system. OG&E's plan is to comply with all applicable standards and to expediently correct a violation should it occur. The North American Electric Reliability Corporation has authority to assess penalties up to $1.0 million per day per violation for noncompliance. In order to comply with new or updated security regulations, we may be required to make changes to our current operations which 30could also result in additional expenses. OG&E is subject to a North American Electric Reliability Corporation compliance audit every three years as well as periodic spot check audits and cannot predict the outcome of those audits. OPERATIONAL RISKS Our results of operations may be impacted by disruptions beyond our control. We are exposed to risks related to performance of contractual obligations by our suppliers. We are dependent on coal and natural gas for much of our electric generating capacity. We rely on suppliers to deliver coal and natural gas in accordance with short and long-term contracts. We have certain supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal and natural gas to us. The suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. In addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal and natural gas to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. Deliveries may be subject to short-term interruptions or reductions due to various factors, including transportation problems, weather and availability of equipment. Failure or delay by our suppliers of coal and natural gas deliveries could disrupt our ability to deliver electricity and require us to incur additional expenses to meet the needs of our customers. Also, because our generation and transmission systems are part of an interconnected regional grid, we face the risk of possible loss of business due to a disruption or black-out caused by an event (severe storm, generator or transmission facility outage) on a neighboring system or the actions of a neighboring utility. Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. OG&E's electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. OG&E owns and operates coal-fired, natural gas-fired and wind-powered generating facilities. Operation of electric generating facilities involves risks that can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Included among these risks are: •increased prices for fuel and fuel transportation as existing contracts expire;•facility shutdowns due to a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes or interruptions in fuel supply;•operator error or safety related stoppages;•disruptions in the delivery of electricity; and•catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences.Economic conditions could negatively impact our business and our results of operations. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. The consequences of a prolonged recession could include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues and future growth. Instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also could affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. Economic conditions may also impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets, including goodwill, that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Current economic conditions may be exacerbated by insufficient financial sector liquidity leading to potential increased unemployment, which could impact the ability of our customers to pay timely, increase customer bankruptcies, and could lead to increased bad debt. If such circumstances occur, we expect that commercial and industrial customers would be impacted first, with residential customers following. In addition, economic conditions, particularly budget shortfalls, could lead to increased pressure on Federal, state and local governments to raise additional funds, including through increased corporate taxes and/or through delaying, reducing or eliminating tax credits, grants or other incentives, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We are subject to financial risks associated with climate change.Climate change creates financial risk. Potential regulation associated with climate change legislation could pose financial risks to the Company. In addition, to the extent that any climate change adversely affects the national or regional economic health through increased rates caused by the inclusion of additional regulatory imposed costs (carbon dioxide taxes or costs associated 31with additional regulatory requirements), the Company may be adversely impacted. A declining economy could adversely impact the overall financial health of the Company because of lack of load growth and decreased sales opportunities. To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this could negatively affect our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less than ideal terms and conditions.We are subject to cyber security risks and increased reliance on processes automated by technology.In the regular course of our businesses, we handle a range of sensitive security and customer information. We are subject to laws and rules issued by different agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of this information. A security breach of our information systems such as theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information, including confidential customer information or system operating information, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.OG&E and Enogex operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite implementation of security measures, the technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. Such failures or breaches of the systems could impact the reliability of OG&E's generation, transmission and distribution systems (including smart grid) and Enogex's transportation systems which may result in a loss of service to customers and also subject OG&E and Enogex to financial harm due to the significant expense to repair security breaches or system damage. The implementation of OG&E's smart grid program further increases potential risks associated with cyber security attacks. If the technology systems were to fail or be breached and not recovered in a timely way, critical business functions could be impaired and sensitive confidential data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our security procedures, which include among others, virus protection software, cyber security and our business continuity planning, including disaster recovery policies and back-up systems, may not be adequate or implemented properly to fully address the adverse affect of cyber security attacks on our systems, which could adversely impact our operations.Terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks and the magnitude of the threat of future terrorist attacks on the electric utility and natural gas midstream industry in general, and on us in particular, cannot be known. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of supplies and markets for our products, and the possibility that our infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than existing insurance coverage. Enogex does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt its operations. Enogex does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and it is therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if it does not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. Enogex obtains the rights to construct and operate its pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies sometimes for a specific period of time. A loss of these rights, through Enogex's inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could cause Enogex to cease operations temporarily or permanently on the affected land, increase costs related to the construction and continuing operations elsewhere, reduce its revenue and impair its cash flows. Weather conditions such as tornadoes, thunderstorms, ice storms, wind storms, and prolonged droughts, as well as seasonal temperature variations may adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. In OG&E's service area, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. As a result, overall operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce our revenues, net income, available cash and borrowing ability. Severe weather, such as tornadoes, thunderstorms, ice storms and wind storms, may cause outages and property damage which may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned, as described above, would be particularly 32burdensome during a peak demand period. In addition, prolonged droughts could cause a lack of sufficient water for use in cooling during the electricity generating process.Natural gas and NGLs prices are volatile, and changes in these prices could negatively affect Enogex's results of operations and cash flows. Enogex's results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected by adverse movements in the prices of natural gas and NGLs depending on factors that are beyond our control. These factors include demand for these commodities, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including the impact of seasonality and weather, general economic conditions, the level of domestic and offshore natural gas production and consumption, the availability of imported natural gas, liquefied natural gas and NGLs, actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations, the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems, the availability and marketing of competitive fuels, the impact of energy conservation efforts, technological advances affecting energy consumption and the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Enogex's keep-whole natural gas processing arrangements, which constituted 21 percent of its gross margin and accounted for 21 percent of its natural gas processed volumes in 2012, expose it to fluctuations in the pricing spreads between NGLs prices and natural gas prices. Keep-whole processing arrangements generally require a processor of natural gas to keep its shippers whole on a British thermal unit basis by replacing the British thermal units of the NGLs extracted from the production stream with British thermal units of natural gas. Therefore, if natural gas prices increase and NGLs prices do not increase by a corresponding amount, the processor has to replace the British thermal units of natural gas at higher prices and processing margins are negatively affected. Enogex's percent-of-proceeds and percent-of-liquids natural gas processing agreements constituted two percent and five percent, respectively, of its gross margin and accounted for 16 percent and 28 percent, respectively, of its natural gas processed volumes in 2012. Under these arrangements, Enogex generally gathers raw natural gas from producers at the wellhead, transports the gas through its gathering system, processes the gas and sells the processed gas and/or NGLs at prices based on published index prices. The price paid to producers is based on an agreed percentage of the proceeds of the sale of processed natural gas, NGLs or both or the expected proceeds based on an index price. Enogex refers to contracts in which it shares in specified percentages of the proceeds from the sale of natural gas and NGLs as percent-of-proceeds arrangements and in which it receives proceeds from the sale of NGLs or the NGLs themselves as compensation for its processing services as percent-of-liquids arrangements. These arrangements expose Enogex to risks associated with the price of natural gas and NGLs.At any given time, Enogex's overall portfolio of processing contracts may reflect a net short position in natural gas (meaning that Enogex was a net buyer of natural gas) and a net long position in NGLs (meaning that Enogex was a net seller of NGLs). As a result, Enogex's gross margin could be negatively impacted to the extent the price of NGLs decreases in relation to the price of natural gas. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells connected to Enogex's systems, Enogex's success depends on its ability to gather new sources of natural gas, which depends on certain factors beyond its control. Any decrease in supplies of natural gas could adversely affect Enogex's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Enogex's gathering and transportation systems are connected to or dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells, from which production will naturally decline over time. As a result, Enogex's cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on its gathering and transportation systems and the asset utilization rates at its natural gas processing plants, Enogex must continually obtain new natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting Enogex's ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and attract new customers to its assets depends in part on the level of successful drilling activity near these systems, Enogex's ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells and Enogex's ability to expand capacity as needed. If Enogex is not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on its gathering, processing, transportation and storage facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Enogex's businesses are dependent, in part, on the drilling decisions of others. All of Enogex's businesses are dependent on the continued availability of natural gas production. Enogex does not have control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of its operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. The primary factor that impacts drilling decisions is natural gas prices. Natural gas prices are currently around $3.21 per MMBtu. A decline in natural gas prices could result in a decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by Enogex's gathering, processing and transportation facilities, which would lead to reduced utilization of these assets. Other factors that impact production decisions include producers' capital budgets, access to credit, the ability of producers to obtain necessary drilling and other governmental permits, costs of steel and other commodities, geological considerations, demand for hydrocarbons, the level and composition of reserves, other production and development 33costs and regulatory changes. In particular, certain states have adopted or are considering, and Congress is considering, adopting regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. In the event Federal, state, local or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in the areas where Enogex operates, there may be a delay or curtailment in drilling activities. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by Enogex's assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. The Company may engage in commodity hedging activities to minimize the impact of commodity price risk, which may have a volatile effect on its results of operations and cash flows.The Company is exposed to changes in commodity prices in its operations. The Company has used forward physical contracts, commodity price swap contracts and commodity price option features to manage the Company's commodity price risk exposures in the past. From time to time, Enogex has instituted a hedging program that was intended to reduce the commodity price risk associated with Enogex's NGLs volumes and corresponding keep-whole natural gas resulting from its natural gas processing contracts (processing hedges) and natural gas positions resulting from its natural gas gathering and processing operations and natural gas transportation and storage operations (operational gas hedges). Management will continue to evaluate whether to enter into any new hedging arrangements and there can be no assurance that Enogex will enter into any new hedging arrangements. To the extent Enogex hedges its commodity price and interest rate exposures, Enogex may forego the benefits that otherwise would be experienced if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in Enogex's favor. In addition, even though management monitors Enogex's hedging activities, these activities can result in substantial losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement, the hedging arrangement is imperfect or ineffective, or the hedging policies and procedures are not followed or do not work as planned. Enogex depends on certain key natural gas producer customers for a significant portion of its supply of natural gas and NGLs. The loss of, or reduction in volumes from, any of these customers could result in a decline in its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Enogex relies on certain key natural gas producer customers for a significant portion of its natural gas and NGLs supply. Enogex's key natural gas producer customers in 2012 included Chesapeake Energy Marketing Inc., Apache Corporation and Devon Energy Production Company, L.P. In 2012, these customers accounted for 19.6 percent, 17.8 percent and 10.6 percent, respectively, of Enogex's gathering and processing volumes. In 2012, Enogex's top 10 natural gas producer customers accounted for 73.0 percent of Enogex's gathering and processing volumes. The loss of the natural gas and NGLs volumes supplied by these customers, the failure to extend or replace these contracts or the extension or replacement of these contracts on less favorable terms, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on Enogex's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Enogex depends on two customers for a significant portion of its firm intrastate transportation and storage services. The loss of, or reduction in volumes from, either of these customers could result in a decline in Enogex's transportation and storage services and its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Enogex provides firm intrastate transportation and storage services to several customers on its system. Enogex's major transportation customers are OG&E and PSO, the second largest electric utility in Oklahoma. As part of the no-notice load following contract with OG&E, Enogex provides natural gas storage services for OG&E. Enogex provides gas transmission delivery services to all of PSO's natural gas-fired electric generation facilities in Oklahoma under a firm intrastate transportation contract. In 2012, 2011 and 2010, revenues from Enogex's firm intrastate natural gas transportation and storage contracts were $131.5 million, $130.7 million and $116.6 million, respectively, of which $47.5 million in each year was attributed to OG&E and $15.3 million in each year was attributed to PSO. The PSO contract and the OG&E contract provide for a monthly demand charge plus variable transportation charges including fuel. The stated term of the PSO contract expired January 1, 2013, but the contract remains in effect from year to year thereafter unless either party provides written notice of termination to the other party at least 180 days prior to the commencement of the next succeeding annual period. Because neither party provided notice of termination 180 days prior to January 1, 2013, the PSO contract will remain in effect at least through January 1, 2014. The stated term of the OG&E contract expired April 30, 2009, but the contract remains in effect from year to year thereafter unless either party provides written notice of termination to the other party at least 180 days prior to the commencement of the next succeeding annual period. Because neither party provided notice of termination 180 days prior to May 1, 2013, the OG&E contract will remain in effect at least through April 30, 2014. The loss of all or even a portion of the intrastate transportation and storage services for either of these customers, the failure to extend or replace these contracts or the extension or replacement of these contracts on less favorable 34terms, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on Enogex's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to Enogex's gathering, processing or transportation facilities become partially or fully unavailable, Enogex's revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected. Enogex depends upon third-party natural gas pipelines to deliver gas to, and take gas from, its transportation system. Enogex also depends on third-party facilities to transport and fractionate NGLs that it delivers to the third party at the tailgates of its processing plants. Fractionation is the separation of the heterogeneous mixture of extracted NGLs into individual components for end-use sale. Additionally, Enogex depends on third parties to provide electricity for compression at many of its facilities. Since Enogex does not own or operate any of these third-party pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within Enogex's control. If any of these third-party pipelines or other facilities become partially or fully unavailable, Enogex's revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected. Enogex's industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Enogex competes with similar enterprises in its respective areas of operation. Some of these competitors are large oil, natural gas and petrochemical companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas and NGLs than Enogex. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering, processing, transportation and storage systems that would create additional competition for the services Enogex provides to its customers. In addition, Enogex's customers who are significant producers of natural gas may develop their own gathering, processing, transportation and storage systems in lieu of using Enogex's. Enogex's ability to renew or replace existing contracts with its customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of its competitors and customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on Enogex's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Gathering, processing, transporting and storing natural gas involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, Enogex's operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Gathering, processing, transporting and storing natural gas involves many hazards and operational risks, including: •damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism;•inadvertent damage from third parties, including construction, farm and utility equipment;•leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas or NGLs as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; and•fires and explosions.These and other risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of Enogex's related operations. Enogex's insurance is currently provided under the Company's insurance programs. Enogex is not fully insured against all risks inherent to its business. Enogex is not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, which may include toxic tort claims. In addition, Enogex may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount desired at reasonable rates. Moreover, in some instances, significant claims by the Company may limit or eliminate the amount of insurance proceeds available to Enogex. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of the Company's insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect Enogex's consolidated financial position and results of operations.Our investment agreement with the ArcLight group involves risks and uncertainties. As part of our investment agreement with the ArcLight group, we are entitled to designate three directors, and the ArcLight group was initially entitled to designate one director of Enogex Holdings. The investment agreement provides the ArcLight group the opportunity to increase its ownership interest by providing equity funding for capital expenditures associated with Enogex's business plan. As its ownership position increases, the ArcLight group will be entitled to increasing board representation. At December 31, 2012, OGE Energy indirectly owns a 79.9 percent membership interest in Enogex Holdings. The ArcLight group will also be entitled, at various ownership thresholds, to certain special board approval rights with respect to certain significant actions taken by Enogex Holdings, as well as to appoint additional directors for Enogex Holdings. 35Joint venture arrangements like this involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture partner failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for commitments; the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement and the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partner and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts. FINANCIAL RISKSMarket performance, increased retirements, changes in retirement plan regulations and increasing costs associated with our Pension Plan, health care plans and other employee-related benefits may adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We have a Pension Plan that covers a significant amount of our employees hired before December 1, 2009. We also have defined benefit postretirement plans that cover a significant amount of our employees hired prior to February 1, 2000. Assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions with respect to the defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans have a significant impact on our results of operations and funding requirements. Based on our assumptions at December 31, 2012, we expect to continue to make future contributions to maintain required funding levels. It has been our practice in the past to also make voluntary contributions to maintain more prudent funding levels than minimally required. We may continue to make voluntary contributions in the future. These amounts are estimates and may change based on actual stock market performance, changes in interest rates and any changes in governmental regulations. If the employees who participate in the Pension Plan retire when they become eligible for retirement over the next several years, or if our plan experiences adverse market returns on its investments, or if interest rates materially fall, our pension expense and contributions to the plans could rise substantially over historical levels. The timing and number of employees retiring and selecting the lump-sum payment option could result in pension settlement charges that could materially affect our results of operations if we are unable to recover these costs through our electric rates. In addition, assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions, including projected retirements, have a significant impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Those factors are outside of our control. In addition to the costs of our Pension Plan, the costs of providing health care benefits to our employees and retirees have increased substantially in recent years. We believe that our employee benefit costs, including costs related to health care plans for our employees, will continue to rise. The increasing costs and funding requirements with our Pension Plan, health care plans and other employee benefits may adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We face certain human resource risks associated with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements. Workforce demographic issues challenge employers nationwide and are of particular concern to the electric utility and natural gas pipeline industry. The median age of utility and natural gas pipeline workers is significantly higher than the national average. Over the next three years, 29 percent of our current employees will be eligible to retire with full pension benefits. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. We are a holding company with our primary assets being investments in our subsidiaries. We are a holding company and thus our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. Substantially all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries. Consequently, our operating cash flow and our ability to pay our dividends and service our indebtedness depends upon the operating cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by them to us in the form of dividends. At December 31, 2012, the Company and its subsidiaries had outstanding indebtedness and other liabilities of $6.8 billion. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our indebtedness or to make any funds available for that purpose, whether by dividends or otherwise. In addition, each subsidiary's ability to pay dividends to us depends on any statutory and contractual restrictions that may be applicable to such subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain minimum levels of working capital and other assets. Claims of creditors, including general creditors, of our subsidiaries on the assets of these subsidiaries will have priority over our claims generally (except to the extent that we may be a creditor of the subsidiaries and our claims are recognized) and claims by our shareowners. In addition, as discussed above, OG&E is regulated by state utility commissions in Oklahoma and Arkansas as well as a Federal regulatory agency which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met. To the extent that the state commissions or Federal regulatory agency attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of OG&E to pay dividends to us, it could adversely affect our ability to continue to pay dividends.36Certain provisions in our charter documents have anti-takeover effects. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as the Oklahoma corporations statute, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company. Such provisions, including those regulating the nomination of directors, limiting who may call special stockholders' meetings and eliminating stockholder action by written consent, together with the possible issuance of preferred stock of the Company without stockholder approval, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder's best interest. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which may increase the risks created by our indebtedness. The terms of the indentures governing our debt securities do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries are in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in our revolving credit agreements and the indentures governing our debt securities, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness. If we or any of our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we and they now face may intensify. Any reductions in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs and the cost of maintaining certain contractual relationships or limit our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms. We cannot assure you that any of our current credit ratings or the ratings of our subsidiaries' will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. Our ability to access the commercial paper market could be adversely impacted by a credit ratings downgrade or major market disruptions. Pricing grids associated with our credit facilities could cause annual fees and borrowing rates to increase if an adverse rating impact occurs. The impact of any future downgrade could include an increase in the costs of our short-term borrowings, but a reduction in our credit ratings would not result in any defaults or accelerations. Any future downgrade could also lead to higher long-term borrowing costs and, if below investment grade, would require us to post collateral or letters of credit. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. We have revolving credit agreements for working capital, capital expenditures, including acquisitions, and other corporate purposes. The levels of our debt could have important consequences, including the following:•the ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or the financing may not be available on favorable terms;•a portion of cash flows will be required to make interest payments on the debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; and•our debt levels may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.We are exposed to the credit risk of our key customers and counterparties, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers and counterparties could adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to credit risks in our generation, retail distribution and pipeline operations. Credit risk includes the risk that counterparties that owe us money or energy will breach their obligations. If the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected and we could incur losses.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 37