ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we do not consider significant, may also impair our business. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from the results we discuss in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, they could have a severe negative impact on our financial results and stock price. The current adverse changes in general economic conditions on a global basis could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current economic recession, coupled with continued uncertainty about future economic conditions, could negatively impact our current and prospective customers, resulting in delays or reductions in their technology purchases. As a result, we could experience fewer new orders, fewer renewals, longer sales cycles, the impact of the slower adoption of newer technologies and increased price competition, any of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Continuation of the current adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to collect payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. We can not predict the timing, strength or duration of this severe global economic recession or subsequent recovery. Our business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market. Demand for our products and services can be significantly impacted by the general demand for business-related information technology, which demand fluctuates based on numerous factors, including: capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. Fluctuations in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the poor general economic and market conditions, future economic projections for the information technology sector are uncertain as companies reassess their spending for technology products and services. If an unfavorable environment for information technology spending continues, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. We have a history of operating losses and expect these losses to continue, at least for the near future. We have experienced significant operating losses since we began operations. We expect that our Intellectual Property segment will generate an operating loss in 2009. We project that our software segment will not generate enough revenue to offset such operating loss, nor are we projecting that our software segment will be profitable on its own. Consequently, we expect to report an operating loss on a consolidated basis for 2009. In subsequent reporting periods, if revenues grow more slowly than anticipated, or if aggregate operating expenses exceed expectations, we may not become profitable. Even if we become profitable, we may be unable to sustain such profitability. We have a limited amount of cash available to fund our operations, consequently, we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of the patent portfolio we acquired from NES. Although we entered into a $6.25 million settlement and licensing agreement with Autotrader.com in December 2007, we have not generated further revenue from our patent portfolio since their acquisition from NES in January 2005. Due to our limited cash availability, we have determined that we will not be initiating any new infringement litigation or attempting to seek licensing revenue with respect to any of the NES patents that were not involved in any of our on-going litigation as of December 31, 2008. As a result of such decision, during the fourth quarter of 2008 we recorded an $868,200 non-cash impairment charge against certain of the patents acquired from NES. If we determine that any of our patents are further impaired, we would be required to write down the value of the patents even further, which would result in additional non-cash impairment charges. Our revenue is typically generated from a very limited number of significant customers. A material portion of our revenue during any reporting period is typically generated from a very limited number of significant customers. Consequently, if any of these significant customers reduce their order level or fail to order during a reporting period, our revenue could be materially adversely impacted. 8 Several of our significant customers are ISVs who have bundled our products with theirs to sell as web-enabled versions of their products. Other significant customers include distributors who sell our products directly. We do not control our significant customers. Some of our significant customers maintain inventories of our products for resale to smaller end-users. If they reduce their inventory of our products, our revenue and business could be materially adversely impacted. If we are unable to develop new products and enhancements to our existing products, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. The market for our products and services are characterized by: o frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements; o rapid technological change; o evolving industry standards; o fluctuations in customer demand; and o changes in customer requirements. Our future success depends on our ability to continually enhance our current products and develop and introduce new products that our customers choose to buy. If we are unable to satisfy our customers' demands and remain competitive with other products that could satisfy their needs by introducing new products and enhancements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. Our future success could be hindered by: o delays in our introduction of new products and/or enhancements of existing products; o delays in market acceptance of new products and/or enhancements of existing products; and o our, or a competitor's, announcement of new products and/or product enhancements or technologies that could replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing products. For example, sales of our GO-Global for Windows software could be affected by the announcement from Microsoft of the intended release and subsequently, the actual release of a new Windows-based operating system or an upgrade to a previously released Windows-based operating system version as these new or upgraded systems may contain similar features to our products or they could contain architectural changes that temporarily prevent our products from functioning properly within a Windows-based operating system environment. Our business could be adversely impacted by changes pending in both the PTO and the United States Congress. Currently, proposed rule changes are pending in the PTO that will affect how currently pending and new patent applications are processed by the PTO. These rule changes may have an adverse affect on our presently pending patent applications and any patent applications we may file in the future. Additionally, legislation is pending in Congress that would reform patent law. The legislation, if passed, may affect our ability to file lawsuits in certain jurisdictions and may adversely impact our ability to collect damages if enacted as currently drafted. Sales of products within our GO-Global product line constitute a substantial majority of our revenue. We anticipate that sales of products within our GO-Global product line, and related enhancements, will continue to constitute a substantial majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our ability to continue to generate revenue from our GO-Global product line will depend on continued market acceptance of GO-Global. Declines in demand for our GO-Global product line could occur as a result of: o lack of success with our strategic partners; o new competitive product releases and updates to existing competitive products; o decreasing or stagnant information technology spending levels; o price competition; o technological changes, or; o general economic conditions in the market in which we operate. 9 If our customers do not continue to purchase GO-Global products as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our stock price has been historically volatile and you could lose the value of your investment. Our stock price has historically been volatile; it has fluctuated significantly to date. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Your investment in our stock could lose value. Our operating results in one or more future periods are likely to fluctuate significantly and may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future on a quarterly and annual basis due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that could cause our revenues to fluctuate include the following: o our ability to maximize the revenue opportunities of our patents; o variations in the size of orders by our customers; o increased competition; and o the proportion of overall revenues derived from different sales channels such as distributors, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and others. In addition, our royalty and license revenues are impacted by fluctuations in OEM licensing activity from quarter to quarter, which may involve one-time orders from non-recurring customers, or customers who order infrequently. Our expense levels are based, in part, on expected future orders and sales; therefore, if orders and sales levels are below expectations, our operating results are likely to be materially adversely affected. Additionally, because significant portions of our expenses are fixed, a reduction in sales levels may disproportionately affect our net income. Also, we may reduce prices or increase spending in response to competition or to pursue new market opportunities. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future periods may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would likely be adversely affected. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining key management or other personnel. Our success and business strategy is dependent in large part on our ability to attract and retain key management and other personnel in certain areas of our business. The loss of the services of one or more key members of our management group and other key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, may have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel and any officer or other employee can terminate their relationship with us at any time. The successful implementation of our business strategy could be dependent upon our ability to retain highly-skilled key management, technical, sales and finance personnel. If any of these employees were to leave, we would need to attract and retain replacements for them. We may also need to add key personnel in the future, in order to successfully implement our business strategies. The market for such qualified personnel is competitive and it includes other potential employers whose financial resources for such qualified personnel are more substantial than ours. Consequently, we could find it difficult to attract, assimilate or retain such qualified personnel in sufficient numbers to successfully implement our business strategies. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights may adversely affect us. Our commercial success is dependent, in large part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, and on trade secrets and confidentiality provisions and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. These measures afford only limited protection. We cannot assure you that measures we have taken will be adequate to protect us from misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that the existence of any proprietary rights will prevent the development of competitive products. The infringement upon, or loss of any proprietary rights, or the development of competitive products despite such proprietary rights, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 As regards our intention to maximize the revenue opportunities from the portfolio of patents that we acquired from NES: o Although we believe the NES patents to be strong, there can be no assurance that they will not be found invalid either in whole or in part; o Invalidation of their broadest claims could result in very narrow claims that do not have the potential to produce meaningful license revenues; o Many of the companies that we intend to seek licenses from are very large with significant financial resources. We currently lack the ability to defend our patents against claims of invalidity if such litigation is heavily contested over an extended period of months or even years; o We have engaged attorneys that work on our behalf on a contingent fee basis and intend to pursue litigation until a resolution is achieved that is favorable to us. Such attorneys may seek to limit their exposure either by advocating licensing settlements that are not favorable to us or may abandon their efforts on our behalf; and o Because Network Engineering Software obtained no foreign patents or filed any foreign patent applications, infringing companies may seek to avoid our demand for licenses by moving the infringing activities offshore where U.S. patents cannot be enforced. We face risks of claims from third parties for intellectual property infringement that could adversely affect our business. At any time, we may receive communications from third parties asserting that features or content of our products may infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Any such claims, with or without merit, and regardless of their outcome, may be time consuming and costly to defend. We may not have sufficient resources to defend such claims and they could divert management's attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into new royalty or licensing agreements. New royalty or licensing agreements may not be available on beneficial terms, or may not be available at all. If a successful infringement claim is brought against us and we fail to license the infringed or similar technology, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our business significantly benefits from strategic relationships and there can be no assurance that such relationships will continue in the future. Our business and strategy relies to a significant extent on our strategic relationships with other companies. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or develop any of these relationships or to replace them in the event any of these relationships are terminated. In addition, any failure to renew or extend any licenses between any third party and us may adversely affect our business. We rely on indirect distribution channels for our products and may not be able to retain existing reseller relationships or to develop new reseller relationships. Our products are primarily sold through several distribution channels. An integral part of our strategy is to strengthen our relationships with resellers such as OEMs, systems integrators, VARs, distributors and other vendors to encourage these parties to recommend or distribute our products and to add resellers both domestically and internationally. We currently invest, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources to expand our sales and marketing capabilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and/or retain resellers to market our products effectively. Our inability to attract resellers and the loss of any current reseller relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we cannot assure you that resellers will devote enough resources to provide effective sales and marketing support to our products. The market in which we participate is highly competitive and has more established competitors. The market we participate in is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to technological changes. We expect competition to increase as other companies introduce additional competitive products. In order to compete effectively, we must continually develop and market new and enhanced products and market those products at competitive prices. As markets for our products continue to develop, additional companies, including companies in the computer hardware, software and networking industries with significant market presence, may enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. A number of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and significantly greater financial, sales, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. We cannot give assurance that our competitors will not develop and market competitive products that will offer superior price or performance features, or that new competitors will not enter our markets and offer such products. We believe that we will need to invest increased financial resources in research and development to remain competitive 11 in the future. Such financial resources may not be available to us at the time or times that we need them, or upon terms acceptable to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to establish and maintain a significant market position in the face of our competition and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 