D. RISK FACTORS We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to our business and industry We have a history of substantial losses and might not sustain profitability. During 2002, 2003 and 2004, we incurred aggregate operating losses of approximately $61.9 million. We also incurred significant operating losses in the years prior to 2002. We incurred a significant portion of our operating losses during the period through 2003, when our primary business was the sale of asymmetric digital subscriber line, or ADSL, products, which we no longer sell. Since 2001, we have made significant investments in technology projects, mainly for new telecom equipment products addressing high transmission of data for the metropolitan area, through our subsidiary, Corrigent Systems Inc. We only began to recognize significant revenues from sales of these products in the second half of 2004. As a result, we were able to generate both operating income and net income for the first time in 2005. We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to be profitable for any sustained period of time. 5 Our revenues in 2004 and 2005 were dependent on sales of one product line to one telecom carrier in Japan, and we expect to continue to depend on sales of this product line to this customer for a substantial majority of our revenues in 2006. The loss of this customer, or a significant decrease in revenues from it, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Almost all of our revenues in 2004 and all of our revenues in 2005 were the result of the sales of our metro products, the Corrigent CM-100. Approximately 81.5% of our revenues in 2004 and 99.8% of our revenues in 2005 were derived from sales of these products to KDDI, a Japanese telecom carrier. We expect that substantially all of our revenues in 2006 will be comprised of sales of Corrigent CM-100 products to KDDI. We do not know for how long a period of time KDDI will continue to purchase products from us, nor do we have any control or influence over the purchasing decisions of KDDI, including the quantities, price and timing of the deployment of the CM-100 product line in its network. KDDI is purchasing the CM-100 for initial coverage deployment in its metropolitan area network. We do not know when KDDI will conclude its initial deployment of our metro products. It is likely that once this stage is concluded, additional demand for the CM-100 product from KDDI will be derived from growth in the number of subscribers for new IP services offered by KDDI. We cannot predict whether KDDI will be successful in offering new services or securing additional subscribers. Sales to KDDI are dependent on their success in offering new services and securing additional subscribers. The loss of this customer, or a significant decrease in revenues from it, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We will need to make sales to additional customers and to develop additional products to be able to sustain profitability for any period of time. We have a history of extreme fluctuations in our cash from operations and might not sustain positive cash flow from operations. In 2003, we used $16.1 million of cash in our operating activities. In 2004 we generated $938,000 of cash from operating activities and in 2005 we generated $72.6 million of cash from operating activities. We realized substantially all of our positive cash flow from operations in 2005 due to the significant increase in sales to KDDI in Japan and the payment of receivables owed to us in advance of the recognition of the related revenue in our financial statements. We do not expect to continue to generate significant amounts of cash from operations in 2006 and expect to use cash in our operating activities in the six-month period ending June 30, 2006 as we will be recognizing revenue in the first half of 2006 with respect to sales that were paid for in 2005. We depend on third party distributors in Japan for the sale of our products. If these distributors do not succeed in selling our products, or if we are not able to maintain our relationship with them, our results of operations will suffer. Our sales of products to KDDI have been made through Net One Systems Co., Ltd. and, since 2005, primarily through OKI Electric Industry Co., Ltd., distributors located in Japan. Our relationship with OKI began in 2005 and we do not have a long history of dealing with them. We are dependent on their marketing and sales efforts to convince KDDI and other customers or end-users in Japan to purchase our products and to provide local support services. If either of our distributors terminates or adversely changes its relationships with us, we may be unsuccessful in replacing it. The loss of a distributor could impair our ability to sell our products and materially adversely affect our results of operations. 6 The purchasing patterns in the markets we address will likely result in our revenues being highly volatile. Sales of the Corrigent CM-100 product line are dependent on the capital equipment plans of telecom carriers for metro network equipment. The purchasing patterns of telecom carriers for this type of expansion project are subject to high volatility. We experience a concentrated and inconsistent pattern of purchasing by KDDI in Japan. While product selections and subsequent deliveries may last several years, the purchasing pattern during the deployment period is highly uncertain and, accordingly, our revenues are likely to be subject to high volatility. Substantially all of our sales are currently in Japan. We have limited experience in selling and servicing products in Japan, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. Substantially all of our sales are currently in Japan, a country in which prior to 2004 we had no sales experience. Telecom equipment sales in Japan are subject to high quality and strict delivery requirements. We have limited experience in making sales into the Japanese market and could face business requirements for quality, delivery, service and support that we may not meet. Since significantly all of our sales in 2006 are expected to be in Japan, failure to meet these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. WilTel Communications, a company that recently became a customer for our CM-100 product, was subsequently acquired by Level 3 Communications. We cannot predict the affect this acquisition will have on sales of our products to WilTel. WilTel Communications, a wholesale telecommunications carrier in the United States, selected our CM-100 product in late 2005 for deployment in its metropolitan networks. Soon after the selection, WilTel was acquired by Level 3 Communications, another U.S.-based wholesale telecommunications carrier. It is expected that Level 3 Communications will seek to create a single unified metropolitan area network, as well as to reduce the number of equipment suppliers to the combined company. Level 3 Communications is currently evaluating the need for the CM-100 product in its network. We cannot predict the affect this acquisition will have on sales of our products to WilTel. If Level 3 Communications elects to eliminate the CM-100 product from its metro architecture, our sales to WilTel will be adversely affected. 7 Successful introduction of service applications by telecommunication carriers that are expected to drive demand for our metro products could be delayed or slow to emerge. Service applications that drive the demand for our metro telecommunication products are related to the offering of television services and other media services by telecommunication carriers over data networks. These types of services require very high bandwidth for packet-based transmissions and, as a result, require an upgrade of metropolitan, or metro, network equipment and access equipment. The availability of these services is limited today. It is expected that these services will emerge first with carriers in Asia and later in Europe and the United States. The launch of these services requires significant capital investment in equipment by telecom carriers in the access and metro networks for a range of products, as well as for content packages to be provided by the telecommunication carriers. Delays in the launch of these services or slow subscriber additions to these services will have an adverse effect on the demand for our metro products. The slow down in capital expenditures by telecommunications service providers in prior years had a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Another down turn in technology spending could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The global economic deterioration and economic uncertainty in the telecommunications market resulted in a curtailment of capital investment by telecommunications carriers and service providers beginning in late 2000 and continuing into 2003. Our results of operations were materially adversely affected during this period. There is still uncertainty with respect to the direction of the economy and the telecommunications market. Recent and continuing consolidation of telecommunication carriers in the United States is expected to reduce the number of telecommunication equipment vendors and to increase price pressures. Capital investment by wireline telecom carriers in 2005 with respect to metro networks moderately exceeded 2004 levels. We are uncertain as to whether the improvement in technology spending will continue. A slow capital investment environment in Asia, the United States and Europe is likely to have negative effect on the demand for new technologies and new types of equipment. This could have an adverse effect on us as we attempt to sell our products. Any future industry downturn could increase our inventories, decrease our revenues, result in additional pressure on the price of our products and prolong the time until we are paid, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We plan to continue to invest substantial capital and other resources in the development and commercial launch of new telecom equipment. We intend to make substantial investments in the development of telecom solutions capable of supporting high bandwidth services in telecommunications networks located in metropolitan areas. Almost all of our research and development and other operating expenses in 2005 were related to our CM-100 product. Our expenditures with respect to the development of new telecommunications equipment could reduce our cash balances and impede our ability to develop new products in addition to the Corrigent CM-100 product line. 8 We may need additional financing to continue our growth. We may need to raise additional capital to continue our longer term expansion plans. To the extent that we cannot fund our activities through our resources and any cash we may generate from operations, we may need to raise equity or debt funds through public or private financing. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. To obtain funds through arrangements with strategic partners or others, we may need to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or potential markets. Our future growth will depend upon the acceptance of the technologies developed by us and the development of markets for our products. The markets for our products are dependant on resilient packet ring, or RPR, multi protocol label switching, or MPLS, and a range of emerging technologies that address migration to a metropolitan area IP metro ring network at a 10 giga bits per second transmission rate. We believe that these technologies will support the upgrade of existing metro networks on a cost efficient basis in order to provide IP transmissions addressing high numbers of subscribers and multiple services, at significantly higher transmission speeds than are currently available. The markets for our products are also dependent on the need to support legacy services and new data services over a single unified metro network. The market for products based on RPR and MPLS technologies in the metropolitan area may not fully develop, whether as a result of competition, alternative technologies, such as Ethernet over fiber in the metro area, changes in technology, product standards or otherwise. Our success depends on the acceptance of our products and technologies and the purchase of high-transmission services from telecommunications companies. We have no control over the development of these target markets. Even if our technologies are accepted, relationships with providers of telecommunications services must be developed in order to be successful. Furthermore, competing technologies in the targeted areas may be utilized in the majority of such target markets. This would leave us with a small market to address. We may not be able to keep pace with emerging industry standards for products we are developing. This could make these products more costly or unacceptable to potential customers. Industry-wide standards for RPR and MPLS have been recently adopted and continue to be enhanced. We design our products to support these standards and evaluate new requirements as they are proposed by industry working groups. The adoption of standards different from those currently used by us could result in us having to incur additional time and expense to have our products comply with these standards. Standards may be adopted by various industry groups or may be proprietary and nonetheless accepted broadly in the industry. The failure to support evolving standards could limit acceptance of our products. Since these products will be integrated into networks consisting of elements manufactured by various companies, they must support a number of current and future industry standards and practices. It may take us a significant amount of time to develop and design products incorporating these new standards. We may also have to pay licensing fees to the developers of the technologies that constitute newly adopted standards. This would increase our expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations. Because telephone companies must obtain in-house and regulatory approvals before they can order our products, expected sales of our products to new customers or new products to existing customers are likely to be subject to a long sales cycle, which may harm our business. Before telephone companies can purchase our products, these products must undergo a lengthy approval process. Evaluations and modifications of our products to meet customers’ requirements are likely to take several years prior to commercial selection. Accordingly, we are required to submit enhanced versions of products undergoing the approval process and products in development for approval. 9 The following factors, among others, affect the length of the approval process: — the time required for telephone companies to determine and publish specifications; — the complexity of the products involved; — the technological priorities and budgets of telephone companies; and — the regulatory requirements applicable to telephone companies. Delays in the product approval process could seriously harm our business and results of operation. Because of rapid technological and other changes in the market for telecommunications products, we must continually develop and market new products and product enhancements while reducing production costs. The market for our products is characterized by: — rapid technological change; — frequent product introductions and enhancements; — evolving industry standards; — changes in end-user requirements; and — changes in services offered by telephone companies. Technologies or standards applicable to our products could become obsolete or fail to gain widespread, commercial acceptance, resulting in losses and inventory write-offs. Rapid technological change and evolving technological standards are resulting in shorter life cycles for our products. Shorter life cycles for our products could cause decreases in product prices at the end of the product life cycle, inventory write-offs and a lower rate of return on our research and development expenditures. We may not be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others or successfully develop or market new products. Our quarterly results of operations, including revenues, profit and loss and cash flow, have fluctuated significantly in the past, and these fluctuations are expected to continue in 2006 and beyond. Fluctuations in our results of operations may disappoint investors and result in a decline in our share price. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. In some periods, our operating results may be below the guidance we provided, below public expectations or below revenue levels and operating results reached in prior quarters or in the corresponding quarters of the previous year. If this occurs, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. The following factors have affected our quarterly results of operations in the past and are likely to affect our quarterly results of operations in the future: 10 — size and timing of orders, including order deferrals and delayed shipments; — launching of new product generations; — length of approval processes or market testing; — technological changes in the telecommunications industry; — accuracy of telephone company, distributor and original equipment manufacturer forecasts of their customers' demands; — changes in our operating expenses; — the timing of approval of government research and development grants; — disruption in our sources of supply; — competitive pricing pressures; — funding required for our operations; — general economic conditions; — terms and conditions of supply agreements with our customers and their impact on our recognition of revenues from these agreements; — determination of the fair value (also known as vendor-specific objective evidence) of some of the services we provide, as well aschanges in our revenue recognition policies as a result of changes in the commercial terms between us and our customers; — timely payments of receivables by customers; and — changes in payment terms between us and our suppliers which could accelerate the timing of payments by us and negatively affect our working capital and cash balances. Therefore, the results of any past periods may not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. 11 We may be required to recognize our deferred income, which would accelerate recognition of revenues and cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations. In 2004 and 2005, we recognized revenues from our major customer in Japan ratably over the fourteen-month period of post-contract hardware and software support services, or PCS. This revenue recognition policy was required by generally accepted accounting principles since the fair value of the PCS could not be determined. We received the cash payments for these sales over a shorter period than the revenue recognition period. As a result, changes in our cash and investment balances were not correlated with the amount of our quarterly revenues. If we become able to determine, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the fair value of the PCS that we undertook to provide to our major customer in Japan, it is likely that the remaining unrecognized revenue, which was $54.8 million as of December 31, 2005, as well as the related amount of deferred income, which was $28.7 million as of December 31, 2005, will be required to be recognized. This would result in a one time recognition of a significant amount of revenues and income. No cash from operations will result from this revenue recognition, if required. If we are able to make this determination with respect to our product and services offerings and if we continue to experience a volatile pattern of orders and related product delivery schedules similar to what we experienced in 2004 and 2005, we will likely recognize revenues over a shorter period of time than in 2004 and 2005 and could experience extreme fluctuations in our quarterly revenues, cash flows and results of operations. We may accumulate excess or obsolete inventory that could result in unanticipated price reductions or write downs and adversely affect our results of operations. Telephone companies typically require prompt delivery of products. Sales are typically shipped within a period of up to three months from the date we receive a purchase order. As a result, we are required to maintain or have available sufficient inventory levels or make advance lengthy lead-time component orders to satisfy anticipated demand on a timely basis. Rapid technological change, evolving industry standards or shifts in demand can also result in shorter life cycles for our inventory. This increases the risk of decreases in selling prices, inventory obsolescence and associated write-offs, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. The market for our telecommunication products is intensely competitive. Because substantially all of our competitors have much greater resources than we have, it may be difficult for us to effect commercial sales or to achieve operating profitability. The market for our products is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Many of our current and potential competitors are large and established companies and have better name recognition and greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and personnel resources than us. Increased competition could adversely affect our future revenues and ability to remain profitable due to pricing pressure, loss of market share and other factors. The expansion of research and design facilities in China and India, where engineering costs are significantly lower compared to the U.S., Western Europe or Israel, is expected to increase competition and price pressure for our products. In addition, it is also expected that manufacturers of telecom equipment in China will attempt to leverage their success in supplying telecom equipment to local carriers in Asia and will increase their marketing and sales efforts outside China. 12 The competitors in our markets are numerous and we expect competition to increase in the future. The principal competitors for our products include Alcatel, Cisco Systems, Inc., ECI Telecom Ltd., Fujitsu, Hitachi, Huwaei, Lucent Technologies Inc., Nortel Networks, Siemens AG and UTStarcom. Government regulation of telephone companies could adversely affect the demand for our products. Telecommunication regulatory policies affecting the availability of telephone companies’ services, and other terms on which telephone companies conduct their business, may impede the market penetration of our metro products. For example, the Corrigent CM-100 product line addresses high bandwidth packets, and is dependent on new service offerings, such as video services, which require regulatory approvals for introduction by telecom carriers, including for the scope of content, service packages and tariffs. Telephone companies in the markets in other countries in which we will attempt to sell our products are also subject to evolving governmental regulation or state monopolies. Changes in laws or regulations in Japan, the U.S., or elsewhere could materially adversely affect our ability, and the ability of our customers, to deploy our products. Because a limited number of subcontractors manufacture and assemble our products and since we have a number of single source suppliers of components, our business could suffer if we cannot retain or replace them. We use third-party subcontractors to assemble our products. We have not entered into multi-year agreements with assurances of supply with any of our suppliers or subcontractors. Our expected reliance on third-party subcontractors involves several risks, including: — the potential absence of adequate capacity if we are able to sell a significant amount of our products; — the unavailability of, or interruption in access to, certain process technologies; and — reduced control over product quality, delivery, schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. Shortages of raw materials or production capacity constraints at our subcontractors could negatively affect our ability to meet product delivery obligations and result in increased costs for affected products that we may not be able to recover. Use of subcontractors also involves the risk of reduced control over product quality, delivery schedules and manufacturing yields, as well as limited negotiating power to reduce costs. We obtain a number of key semiconductor components used in our products from single source providers. In order to have an adequate supply of components with a long lead-time for delivery, we may order significant quantities of components from single source suppliers in advance of receiving a purchase order from our customer. A shortage in the supply of key semiconductor and other components could affect our ability to manufacture and deliver our products and result in lower revenues. We may be unable to find alternative sources in a timely manner, if at all, if any of our single source suppliers were unwilling or unable to provide us with key components. In addition, supply from single source suppliers limits our ability to purchase components at competitive prices and in many cases requires us to maintain higher inventory levels. This increases our need for working capital and increases the risk of an inventory write-off. If we cannot obtain sufficient key components as required, or develop alternative sources if and as required in the future, product shipments may be delayed or reduced. This could adversely affect our end-user relationships, business and results of operations. 13 We are subject to new regulations that will require us to use components based on environmentally friendly materials. Compliance with these regulations may increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to new telecommunications industry regulations requiring the use of environmentally-friendly materials in telecommunications equipment. For example, pursuant to a European Community directive, telecom equipment suppliers are required to stop using specified materials that are not “environmentally friendly” by July 1, 2006. In addition, telecom equipment suppliers are required under this directive to eliminate the lead solders from their products by 2010. We will be dependent on our suppliers for components and sub- system modules, such as semiconductors and printed circuit boards, to comply with these requirements. We do not expect to be able to comply with this directive in 2006. We will attempt to comply with this directive in 2007. This may harm our ability to sell our products in Europe and in any other countries that may adopt this directive. Compliance with this directive, especially with respect to the requirement that products be lead free, will require us to undertake significant expenses with respect to the re-design of our products. In addition, we may be required to pay higher prices for components that comply with this directive. We may not be able to pass these higher component costs on to our customers. We cannot at this point estimate the expense that will be required to redesign our products in order to include “environmentally friendly” components. We cannot be sure that we will be able to timely comply with these regulations, that we will be able to comply on a cost effective basis or that a sufficient supply of compliant components will be available to us. Compliance with these regulations could increase our product design costs. Our inability or failure to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, manufacturers of components that we use in our products that do not comply with these regulations may decide to stop manufacturing these components prior to the July 2006 compliance date. Similarly, manufacturers of components that require lead solders may decide to stop manufacturing those components prior to the 2010 compliance date. These actions by manufacturers of components could result in a shortage of components that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We could incur substantial costs if customers assert warranty claims or request product recalls. Any significant product returns or claims under our warranty or PCS could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We offer complex products that have in the past and may in the future contain errors, defects or failures when introduced or as new versions are released. If we deliver products with defects, errors or bugs or if we undergo a product recall as a result of errors or failures, market acceptance of our products could be lost or delayed and we could be the subject of substantial negative publicity. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We commenced commercial sales of our metro product in the second half of 2004. Because of the recent deployment of these products, we cannot predict the level or expense of warranty claims that we will experience. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in the products sold by us and expect to continue to provide a similar indemnity in connection with future sales. In some cases, our indemnity also covers indirect damages. Product liability claims could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 We are subject to international business risks. We have sold our Corrigent products mainly in Japan and are marketing our products primarily in Asia, the United States and Europe. Expansion of our international business requires significant management attention and financial resources. Our international sales and operations are subject to numerous risks inherent in international business activities, including: — compliance with foreign laws and regulations; — staffing and managing foreign operations; — import or currency control restrictions; — burdens that may be imposed by tariffs and other trade barriers; — local taxation; — increased risk of collections; — transportation delays; and — seasonal reduction of business activities. These factors, as well as different technical standards or product requirements for our systems in different markets, may limit our ability to penetrate foreign markets. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the service of these individuals, our business will be harmed. Our growth and success largely depends on the managerial and technical skills of members of senior management. If any of them is unable or unwilling to continue with us, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced a period of rapid growth, and if we cannot adequately manage our growth, our results of operations will suffer. We have experienced rapid growth in our operations from sales of our metro products and our anticipated future growth may place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. We cannot be sure that we have made adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with our expansion, or that our systems, procedures and managerial controls will be adequate to support our operations. Any delay in implementing, or transitioning to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls may adversely affect our ability to manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. We believe our growth may require us to hire additional engineering, technical support, sales, administrative and operational personnel. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense in the areas where we operate. The process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. If we are unable to successfully manage our expansion, we may not grow our business, our expenses may increase and our results of operations may be adversely affected. 15 Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. We may not be able to prevent the misappropriation of our technology, and our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. We have filed U.S. patent applications covering certain of our technologies. To protect our unpatented proprietary know-how, we rely on technical leadership, trade secrets and confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements. These agreements and measures may not adequately protect our technology and it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our authorization or to develop similar technology. There is a risk that we may violate the proprietary rights of others. We are subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of other companies. Many participants in the telecommunications industry have an increasing number of patents and patent applications and have frequently commenced litigation based on alleged infringement. We indemnify our customers with respect to infringement of third party proprietary rights by our products. Third parties may assert infringement claims in the future and these claims may require us to enter into license arrangements or result in costly litigation, regardless of the merits of these claims. Licensing may be unavailable or may not be obtainable on commercially reasonable terms. We face foreign exchange currency risks. We operate in a number of territories and, although our prices are determined in U.S. dollars, we link payments due to us from sales of products and services to local currencies of the countries in which we operate. We hold cash deposits in the currencies we operate with, that is, in U.S dollar, Japanese Yen and Israeli Shekel, or NIS. In 2006, we expect that substantially all of our revenues will be derived from Japan and will be linked to the Yen and a major part of our expenses will be denominated in U.S. dollars and in NIS. We currently do not use hedge instruments. We are likely to face risks from fluctuations of the Yen and the NIS compared to the U.S. dollar, the functional currency in our financial statements. In 2005, the value of the U.S. dollar increased against the Yen, which caused us to recognize lower dollar revenues and gross profit in our financial statements. A further increase of the value of the U.S. dollar against the Yen in 2006 would cause a decrease in our revenues and gross profit. We are subject to risks from our financial investments. We invest the majority of our cash on hand in a variety of financial instruments, including different types of corporate and government bonds, and other financial instruments. Some of these bonds and instruments may be rated below investment grade or not rated. If the obligor of any of the bonds or instruments we hold defaults or undergoes a reorganization in bankruptcy, we may lose all or a portion of our investment in such obligor. This will harm our financial condition. For information on the types of our investments as of December 31, 2005, see Item 11 – “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk Management.” 16 We are subject to taxation in several countries. Because we operate in several countries, mainly in Israel, Japan and the U.S., we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. We are required to report to and be subject to local tax authorities in Israel, the U.S and Japan. In addition, our income that is derived from sales to customers in one country might also be subject to taxation in another country. We cannot be sure of the amount of tax we may become obligated to pay in Israel, the U.S or Japan. The tax authorities in the countries in which we operate may not agree with our tax position. Our tax benefits from carry forward losses and other tax planning benefits such as Israeli approved enterprise programs, may prove to be insufficient due to Israeli tax limitations, or may prove to be insufficient to offset tax liabilities from foreign tax authorities. Foreign tax authorities may also use our gross profit in each territory as the basis for determining our income tax, and our operating expenses might not be considered for related tax calculations. This could adversely affect our results of operations. We have not yet evaluated our internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by no later than the end of our 2006 fiscal year. We have only recently begun the process of determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems is compliant with Section 404. This process may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. If it is determined that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and reevaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as higher independent auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order for us to be compliant with Section 404. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. Risks relating to our operations in Israel. Potential political, economic or military instability in Israel may adversely affect our results of operations. Our principal offices and many of our subcontractors and suppliers are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a marked increase in hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, and in January 2006, Hamas, an Islamic movement responsible for many attacks against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority. The election of a majority of Hamas-supported candidates is expected to be a major obstacle to relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, as well as to the stability in the Middle East as a whole. 17 The future of relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority is uncertain. Terror attacks, armed conflicts or political instability in the region could negatively affect local business conditions and harm our results of operations. We cannot predict the effect on us of the increase in the degree of violence by Palestinians against Israel or the effect of military action elsewhere in the Middle East. Furthermore, several countries restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional companies may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of the increase in hostilities. This may also seriously harm our operating results, financial condition and the expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Most of our male employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty. In addition, in the event of a military conflict or other attack on Israel, including the ongoing conflict with the Palestinians, these persons could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. The absence of a number of our officers and employees for significant periods could disrupt our operations and harm our business. Because almost all our revenues are generated in non-U.S. dollar currencies and a substantial portion of our expenses are incurred in New Israeli Shekels and other non-U.S. dollar currencies, our results of operations may be adversely affected by inflation and currency fluctuations. Almost all of our revenues in 2006 are expected to be generated in Japanese Yen, while the majority of our payroll expenses and a portion of our other expenses are incurred in NIS, and a significant portion of our cost of revenues is incurred in U.S. dollars. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Yen would adversely affect the amount of revenues we report in our financial statements. We could be further exposed to risk that the rate of inflation in Israel may exceed the rate of devaluation of the New Israeli Shekel in relation to the Japanese Yen, U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies or that the timing of such devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In that event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel would increase and our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations would be adversely affected. For example, in 2004 the value of the U.S. dollar declined in relation to the New Israeli Shekel by 1.6%, while inflation increased by 1.2%. As a result, our salary expenses, which are primarily linked to the New Israeli Shekel, increased in U.S. dollar terms. In 2005, the value of the U.S. dollar increased in relation to the New Israeli Shekel by 6.8%, while inflation increased by only 2.4%. As a result, our salary expenses, which are primarily linked to the New Israeli Shekel, decreased in U.S. dollar terms. Subject to such exchange rate differences as of the end of each reporting period, we may incur higher or lower expenses. 18 We benefit from government grant programs that have been reduced and may be unavailable to us in the future. Our participation in these programs restricts our ability to freely transfer manufacturing rights and technology out of Israel. Since our inception, we have relied on Israeli government grants for the financing of a significant portion of our product development expenditures. Due to a continuing reduction of the budget of Israel’s Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, and a focus of that office’s resources on the support of venture stage companies rather than more developed companies, it is expected that the amount of grants we receive in the future will be lower than in prior years, if we receive any at all. We did not receive any grants for our research and development in 2005. This resulted in an increase in our research and development expenses. According to Israeli law, any products developed with grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist are required to be manufactured in Israel, unless we obtain prior approval of a governmental committee. As a condition to obtaining this approval, we may be required to pay the Office of the Chief Scientist up to 300% of the grants we received and to repay these grants at an accelerated rate, depending on the portion of manufacturing performed outside Israel. We have obtained an approval from the Office of the Chief Scientist to manufacture outside Israel. We intend to keep sufficient manufacturing activities in Israel so that we will be subject to a repayment percentage of up to 150% of the grants we received. In addition, we are prohibited from transferring to third parties the technology developed with these grants without the prior approval of a governmental committee. See “Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Government and Other Grants” for additional information about these programs of the Office of the Chief Scientist. The tax benefits that we currently receive require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. We benefit from certain government programs and tax benefits, particularly as a result of the “Approved Enterprise” status of most of our existing facilities. If we fail to meet eligibility conditions in the future, the tax benefits could be canceled. These tax benefits may not continue in the future at their current levels or at any level. From time to time, we submit requests for expansion of our approved enterprise programs or for new programs to be designated as approved enterprises. These requests might not be approved, particularly in light of difficult economic conditions in Israel. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. For more information about Approved Enterprises, see “Item 5B – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Effective Corporate Tax Rates in Israel” below and Note 6a to the financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. We may be required to pay stamp duty on agreements executed by us on or after June 1, 2003. This would increase our taxes. The Israeli Stamp Duty on Documents Law, 1961, or the Stamp Duty Law, provides that most documents signed by Israeli companies are subject to a stamp duty, generally at a rate of between 0.4% and 1% of the value of the subject matter of such document. It has been common practice in Israel not to pay such stamp duty unless a document is filed with a governmental authority or with the courts. As a result of an amendment to the Stamp Duty Law that came into effect on June 1, 2003, the Israeli tax authorities have approached many companies in Israel and requested disclosure of all agreements signed after June 1, 2003 with the aim of collecting stamp duty on such agreements. Although it is not yet possible to evaluate the effect, if any, on us of the amendment to the Stamp Duty Law, there could be a material adverse affect our results of operations. 19 Under an order published in December 2005, the obligation to pay stamp duty was cancelled with respect to documents signed on or after January 1, 2006. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors and our Israeli auditors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon our directors and officers and our Israeli auditors may be difficult to effect in the United States because almost all these parties reside outside the United States. Any judgment obtained in the United States against such parties may be unenforceable outside the United States. It is not clear whether civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act can be enforced in Israel. However, subject to time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. judgment in a civil matter, if: — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — the judgment was rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction, in compliance with due process and the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; — no action between the same parties in the same matter is pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in a U.S. court; and — the U.S. courts are not prohibited from enforcing judgments of the Israeli courts. Foreign money judgments enforced in Israel, are generally awarded in New Israeli Shekels, based on the U.S. Dollar/NIS exchange rate in effect on the date of payment. The NIS can be converted into non-Israeli currency and transferred out of Israel. Pending collection, the amount of the NIS-denominated judgment is linked to the Israeli CPI and accrues interest at the annual statutory rate set by Israeli law. Judgment creditors bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make an acquisition of us more difficult, which could depress our share price. The Israeli Companies Law generally requires that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares voting on the proposed merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy its obligations. In addition, a merger may generally not be completed unless at least (i) 50 days have passed since the filing of the merger proposal with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (ii) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each of the parties to the merger. 20 Also, in certain circumstances an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 25% or greater or 45% or greater shareholder of the company (unless there is already a 25% or greater or a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, respectively). If, as a result of an acquisition, the acquirer would hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. The described restrictions could prevent or make more difficult an acquisition of Orckit, which could depress our share price. Risks Relating to the Market for our Ordinary Shares Holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents face income tax risks. Based on the composition of our gross income and the composition and value of our gross assets during 2005, we do not believe that we would be treated as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the 2005 tax year. It is likely, however, we would be deemed to have been a PFIC in 2002, 2003 and 2004. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not be treated as a PFIC for any subsequent tax year. If we are a PFIC for any tax year, U.S. holders who owned our ordinary shares during such year may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liabilities and reporting requirements for such year and succeeding years, even if we are no longer a PFIC in such succeeding years. U.S. residents should carefully read Item 10.E “Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares and the consequences of PFIC status. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, for funding growth. Accordingly, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Two shareholders who are also our senior officers may be able to control us. As of March 1, 2006, Eric Paneth, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Izhak Tamir, our President, each beneficially owned an aggregate of 1,294,063 ordinary shares representing 8.2% of our outstanding ordinary shares, including 480,000 ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of options that are currently vested. Subject to the decision of our audit committee, each of Mr. Paneth and Mr. Tamir might also be entitled to exchange his vested options to purchase shares of Corrigent common stock for options to purchase approximately 400,000 of our ordinary shares (based on data as of March 1, 2006). For a further explanation of this possible exchange, see “Item 6E– Share Ownership – Exchange of Corrigent Options”. 21 Each of Mr. Paneth and Mr. Tamir is an executive officer and member of our Board of Directors. Currently, Messrs. Paneth and Tamir are not party to a shareholders agreement. However, if Messrs. Paneth and Tamir act together, they may have the power to control the outcome of matters submitted for the vote of shareholders, including the approval of significant change in control transactions. The equity interest in Orckit of Mr. Paneth and Mr. Tamir may make certain transactions more difficult and result in delaying or preventing a change in control of us unless approved by one or both of them. Our shareholder bonus rights plan, the potential exchanges of Corrigent options for Orckit options and the super-majority voting requirements in our articles of association may delay, prevent or make more difficult a hostile acquisition of us, which could depress our share price. In November 2001, we adopted a shareholder bonus rights plan pursuant to which share purchase bonus rights were distributed to our shareholders. These rights generally will be exercisable and transferable apart from our ordinary shares only if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our ordinary shares, or commences a tender or exchange offer upon consummation of which that person or group would hold such a beneficial interest. Once these rights become exercisable and transferable, the holders of rights, other than the person or group triggering their transferability, will be generally entitled to purchase our ordinary shares at a discount from the market price. The rights will expire on December 31, 2011. While these rights remain outstanding, they may make an acquisition of us more difficult and result in delaying or preventing a change in control of Orckit. In addition, pursuant to a plan approved by our shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in June 2005, we may offer holders of vested options to purchase Corrigent common stock at a price of $0.01 per share that have been issued to employees and directors of Corrigent and Orckit the opportunity to exchange those options for vested options to purchase our ordinary shares at a price of $0.01 per share. Based on the terms of the plan, as of March 1, 2006, the maximum number of options for our ordinary shares that could have been issued in exchange for options to purchase Corrigent shares would have been options for approximately 1,500,000 of our ordinary shares (excluding approximately 500,000 of our shares issuable pursuant to exchanges already made). The issuance of this number of shares to employees and directors of Orckit and Corrigent could also delay or prevent a change of control in our company. In addition, our articles of association require the approval of the holders of at least 75% of our ordinary shares voting on the matter to remove a director from office and the approval of at least two-thirds of our ordinary shares voting on the matter to elect director. These requirements could also delay or prevent a change of control of our company. Our stock price has fluctuated significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. Since January 1, 2004, our share price has fluctuated from a low of $4.82 to a high of $31.22. The following factors may cause significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares: — fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings or those of our competitors; — shortfalls in our operating results compared to levels forecast by securities analysts; 22 — announcements concerning us, our competitors or telephone companies; — announcements of technological innovations; — the introduction of new products; — changes in product price policies involving us or our competitors; — market conditions in the industry; — the conditions of the securities markets, particularly in the technology and Israeli sectors; and — political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel and world-wide. In addition, stock prices of many technology companies fluctuate significantly for reasons that may be unrelated or disproportionate to operating results. The factors discussed above may depress or cause volatility of our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. There may be an adverse effect on the market price of our shares as a result of shares being available for sale in the future. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or pursuant to the exchange of options to purchase Corrigent shares for options to purchase Orckit shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and place that we deem appropriate. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading in more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, and on The Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on Nasdaq and New Israeli Shekels on TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Actual trading volume on the TASE is generally lower than trading volume on Nasdaq, and as such could be subject to higher volatility. The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ, resulting from the factors described above, as well as differences in exchange rates. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. 23 