1A. Risk Factors 12 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 ITEM 2. Properties 19 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 19 ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 20 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 24 ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 25 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 34 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 ITEM 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 35 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 36 ITEM 9B. Other Information 36 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 37 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 39 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 44 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 45 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 47 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 48 Signatures 52 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements Certain matters discussed herein may constitute forward-looking statements and as such may involve risks and uncertainties. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the words “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “future” and similar expressions identify certain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, expectations of the business environment in which we operate, projections of future performance, perceived opportunities in the market and statements regarding our mission and vision. Our actual results, performance, or achievements may differ significantly from the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. For discussion of the factors that might cause such a difference, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”. We undertake no obligation to update or revise such forward-looking statements. We urge readers to review carefully the risk factors described in this Annual Report found in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and the other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These documents can be read at www.sec.gov. History Global Matrechs, Inc. (“Global Matrechs,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company”), was organized in 1994 to provide complex web-based software applications and integration services to businesses seeking to take advantage of the Internet. Over time we have been the successor to many businesses and have undergone material changes to our business and our financial structure. Our current business focus is marketing and selling the technologies we licensed from Eurotech, which is described in detail below, to manufacturers and other parties. On March 27, 2003, we entered into a License and Exchange Agreement with Eurotech and Polymate, Ltd. and Greenfield Capital Partners, LLC (the “Exchange Agreement”). On May 22, 2003 we entered into a License Agreement with Eurotech (the “License Agreement”). Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement and the License Agreement, Eurotech has licensed to us its rights to EKOR (now called NuCap™), HNIPU, Electro Magnetic Radiography/Acoustic Core (EMR/AC), Rad-X, Firesil, LEM and Rapidly Biodegradable Hydrophobic Material (RBHM) technologies, which are more fully described herein. The License Agreement provides that the licenses granted to us thereunder may be terminated by Eurotech (i) if we have not affected a commercial sale of any licensed technology or improved licensed technology by April 1, 2006, and (ii) in other circumstances. During 2006, the Company received multiple commercial orders from the Hanford nuclear waste facility in Richland, Washington via the contractor Battelle, and the Department of Energy site in Oakridge, Tennessee for NuCap™ and for HNIPU through our sales partner EFM from Denbar paints in Israel along with small orders in the United States. In consideration for these agreements, we (i) issued to Eurotech 11,250 shares of Series F Convertible Preferred Stock and 1,069 shares of Series G Convertible Preferred Stock, and (ii) agreed to pay Eurotech a royalty of seven percent (7%) on net sales generated by the licensed technologies and a royalty of four percent (4%) on net sales generated by products and services that are improvements on the licensed technologies. Also in connection with this transaction, we issued 1,500 shares of Series F Convertible Preferred Stock to Polymate, as partial consideration for its agreement to modify its rights to receive royalties from Eurotech, and 750 shares of Series F Convertible Preferred Stock to Greenfield as compensation for advisory services relating to the transaction. The holders of shares of Series F Preferred Stock later cancelled their outstanding shares of Series F Preferred Stock in exchange for the right to receive shares of Series H Convertible Preferred Stock, which were issued to them on September 30, 2003. Greenfield has since sold its interest in our Preferred Series H shares to Southshore Capital Fund, Ltd. and Polymate has converted all of its preferred shares to common shares. Prior to May 31, 2004, we derived revenue from professional web development services, software licensing, application development, insurance and securities sales commissions, hosting fees and transactions fees. On May 31, 2004, we completed the sale of our remaining Internet business to Tulix Systems, Inc., Gia Bokuchava, Nino Doijashvili and Timothy R. Robinson, who were officers and directors of our company, and now are the officers, directors and founding shareholders of Tulix. We have kept a 15% interest in the surviving entity. We recorded a loss on the sale of this business of $125,030 in the fourth quarter of 2003 and recorded an additional loss of $124,385 in the second quarter of 2004 for adjustments to the closing as provided for in the closing documents. With the consummation of this sale, we have completely exited from all Internet-related enterprises and our business consists exclusively of the marketing of technologies licensed from Eurotech, Ltd. under the License Agreement. On May 18, 2007 we completed a Redemption Agreement with Tulix selling back our 15% interest in Tulix to the management of Tulix for $50,000. 4 On December 31, 2004, we completed the acquisition of True to Form, Limited (“True to Form”), a maker of specialized lighting products for a range of markets. On December 29, 2005, we completed the sale of True to Form back to its original owner. Our primary source of operating revenue had been, prior to this sale, the specialty lighting group. However, during the first three quarters of 2005, True to Form was unprofitable. As a result of the sale of True to Form, we narrowed the focus of our business to marketing the technologies we currently license from Eurotech. Private Placements with Southridge Partners, LP On January 31, 2005, we entered into a Second Securities Purchase Agreement (the “Second Securities Purchase Agreement”) with Southridge Partners, LP (“Southridge”), one of our existing investors, whereby we agreed to sell a convertible promissory note in the principal amount of $250,000 and warrant to purchase up to 10,000,000 shares of our common stock to Southridge in exchange for its $250,000 investment. The note was convertible, at the option of Southridge, into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $0.02 per share. The interest rate of this note was two percent (2%) per annum. Under the terms of the Second Securities Purchase Agreement, Southridge was entitled to require us to repurchase some or all of its notes if the market price of our common stock fell below $0.03 per share for ten (10) consecutive trading days, at a repurchase price equal to 140% of the principal amount of the note. In the event we defaulted under the terms of the note, the entire outstanding principal (and any outstanding interest accrued thereon) was to become immediately due and payable, and the interest rate will automatically increase to 18% per annum. This note was paid off on January 2, 2007. Under the terms of the Second Securities Purchase Agreement, Southridge had the option any time prior to July 1, 2005, to purchase an additional note in the principal amount of up to $1,500,000 on substantially the same terms as the note issued on January 31, 2005. Southridge exercised this option on March 2, April 11, and May 2, 2005, purchasing notes in the aggregate principal amount of $425,000 and warrants to purchase up to 17,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.025 per share. Each of these transactions was exempt from registration pursuant to the provisions of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). On July 8, 2005, we, together with Southridge, terminated the option to purchase additional notes. We have secured the payment of the notes with a subordinated security interest in our accounts, general intangibles, inventories and other collateral. In addition, in the event we propose to register securities under the Securities Act, we are required to notify Southridge in advance of such registration and, at its request (subject to limited exceptions), include the shares of our common stock underlying its notes and warrants in the registration statement filed in connection with such registration (and assume any expenses associated therewith). The warrants have an expiration date of January 31, 2010, and contain a cashless exercise provision whereby Southridge may pay the exercise price associated with any exercise by having us withhold a number of shares otherwise issuable upon such exercise having a fair market value equal to the applicable aggregate exercise price. In the event such provision is used with respect to an exercise, we would receive no proceeds upon such exercise. Exchange Agreement with Woodward, LLC On January 31, 2005, we entered into an Exchange Agreement with Woodward, LLC, pursuant to which we acquired promissory notes, and have accordingly assumed all rights pertaining thereto, issued by Eurotech, Ltd. The notes are currently in default and have an aggregate outstanding principal amount of $290,000. The notes carry a default annual interest rate of 18% and are past due. In exchange for these notes, we issued to Woodward a promissory note with an annual interest rate of two percent (2%) in the principal amount of $250,000, which is convertible at the election of Woodward into shares of our common stock at a conversion price equal to 80% of the average of the seven (7) lowest closing bid prices for the ten (10) trading days immediately preceding the date the Company receives written notice from Woodward of its election to effect such a conversion. Under the terms of the Exchange Agreement, in the event we propose to register securities under the Securities Act, we are required to notify Woodward in advance of such registration and, at its request (subject to limited exceptions), include the shares of our common stock underlying the note on the registration statement filed in connection with such registration, and assume any expenses associated therewith. This note was transferred to Aberdeen Avenue, LLC (“Aberdeen”) on May 24, 2006. Private Placements with MacNab, LLC On June 14, July 13, August 1, September 14, and October 3, 2005, we entered into Securities Purchase Agreements with MacNab, LLC, each in substantially the same form, pursuant to which we sold non-negotiable 2% secured convertible promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $595,000, and warrants to purchase up to 23,800,000 shares of our common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of $595,000. The notes and warrants are on substantially the same terms as the notes and warrants issued to Southridge, as described above. On May 24, 2006, these notes were assigned to Aberdeen Avenue, LLC with the maturity dates extended to December 31, 2008. 5 Debt Issuance to Southridge On January 31, 2005, March 2, 2005, April 11, 2005, May 12, 2005, December 7, 2005, June 20, 2006, September 13, 2006, October 19, 2006, December 1, 2006 and December 21, 2006, we issued promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $1,295,000 to Southridge with a maturity date of June 30, 2008 and a current interest rate of 2%. In addition on January 10, 2007, and January 25, 2007, we issued promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $90,000 to Southridge, which matures on December 31, 2008. In the event of a default, the annual interest rate on all of these notes will increase to 18% and Southridge may, at its option, demand immediate payment of all amounts due under these notes. The January 31, 2005, March 2, 2005 and May 12, 2005 notes in the aggregate amount of $550,000 were amended on May 24, 2006 whereby December 31, 2008 was established as the new maturity date for each of these notes. While no notice of default has been received from Southridge regarding the remaining notes, the Company and Southridge are negotiating the terms of the amendments to these remaining notes. Promissory Notes Sold to Aberdeen On July 13, 2006, we executed a promissory note agreement with Aberdeen, one of our existing investors, pursuant to which we received gross proceeds of $150,000. The principal value of the note is $180,000 which is payable in full on or before November 30, 2006. If we fail to pay the principal amount in full on or before the maturity date, then the principal amount increases to $200,000. The note does not otherwise incur interest. The note contains usual and customary events of default. We are currently seeking to renegotiate the terms of this note. On September 13, 2006, we executed an additional promissory note agreement with Aberdeen pursuant to which we received gross proceeds of $50,000. The principal value of the note is $60,000 which is payable in full on or before November 30, 2006. If we fail to pay the principal amount in full on or before the maturity date, then the principal amount increases to $75,000. The note does not otherwise incur interest. The note contains usual and customary events of default. We are currently seeking to renegotiate the terms of this note. Amendment of Convertible Promissory Notes On May 24, 2006, we entered into an agreement to amend the terms of the promissory notes issued to MacNab, LLC and Southridge. Under the terms of the amendment, we have, among other things, modified the conversion price from a fixed rate of $.60 per share to a variable rate based on 80% of the market price of our common stock and eliminated a provision which permitted the holder to force us to repurchase its note at a 40% premium over the outstanding principal in the event shares of our common stock trade below $.60 for 10 consecutive trading days. MacNab, LLC waived all penalties due from us, which amounted to more than $500,000. While we believe that this amendment was in the best interests of the Company, stockholders will be subject to significant dilution of their shares of common stock in the event our stock price declines. On July 12, 2006, we (i) issued 450,000 shares of common stock to Consulting for Strategic Growth 1, Inc. for services to be rendered during July, August and September 2006, (ii) granted non-qualified stock options to the members of the Board of Directors, with an exercise price of $0.05 as follows; 250,000 to Mr. K.I.F Gothner, 100,000 to Mr. Tom Folsom and 1,000,000 to Mr. Michael Sheppard, (iii) issued to Peter Gulko non-qualified stock options for the purchase of 186,063 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $0.05, and (iv) granted to each member of the Board non-qualified stock options for the purchase of 250,000 shares of common stock on each of September 30, 2006 and December 29, 2006 at an exercise price per share equal to the then-current market price of our common stock. On October 20, 2006 we issued a non-qualified option for 350,000 shares of common stock to Future Now Capital Markets Group, Inc. as consideration for services rendered. This option is exercisable on a cashless basis at a price of $0.0129 a share and will expire October 19, 2011. On November 14, 2006, we issued a non-qualified option for an additional 150,000 shares of common stock to Future Now Capital Markets Group, Inc. as consideration for services rendered. This option is exercisable on a cashless basis at a price of $0.0070 a share and will expire November 13, 2011. On December 27, 2006 we issued a non-qualified option for 1,582,750 shares of common stock to a consultant and Future Now Capital Markets Group, Inc. for consideration of services rendered at a price of $0.0065 a share and will expire December 28, 2011. On April 2, 2007, our Board of Directors resolved that we (i) complete negotiating the application for D & O insurance, (ii) complete the settlement agreement with Carey Naddell in lieu of cash, legal fees and penalty, for 20,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock with registration rights, (iii) engage an advisor for $12,500 and warrants worth $12,500, (iv) sell its minority interest in Tulix for $50,000, (v) issue Future Now Capital Markets Group, Inc. 1,250,000 shares for services rendered along with $15,000, (vi) has the authority to borrow up to $350,000, and (vii) options be granted to Peter Gulko, a consultant for services rendered for 1,578,912 shares of common stock and to the Board of Directors for 1,100,000 shares of common stock. 6 Increase in Authorized Shares Available for Issuance and Stock Split On April 28, 2006 we received shareholder approval to increase the number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance under our certificate of incorporation from 300,000,000 to 900,000,000. Also on April 28, 2006, we amended our certificate of incorporation to effect that increase. We also received authorization from our shareholders to effect a reverse split of our common stock (which would have the effect of decreasing the number of shares outstanding and, thereby, increase the number of shares available for issuance) at a series of ratios, at the discretion of our board of directors. On May 26, 2006, pursuant to the approval of our shareholders, we effected a reverse split of our common stock at a ratio of 1:20 and filed an Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State, thereby decreasing the number of issued and outstanding shares. Both the increase in the number of shares authorized for issuance under our charter and the reverse stock split are likely to result in dilution to our existing shareholders. The accompanying financial statements and footnotes have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the reverse stock split. On September 14, 2006, the Company and Brittany Capital Management Limited (“Brittany”) agreed to terminate the parties’ Private Equity Credit Agreement and Registration Rights Agreement, dated January 10, 2006, and enter into a new Private Equity Credit Agreement and Registration Rights Agreement with terms substantially similar to the January agreements whereas we may draw up to an aggregate $15 million, from time to time at our discretion, in exchange for shares of our common stock. Each draw under the Private Equity Credit Agreement is structured as a put option, wherein we require Brittany to purchase a number of shares of our common stock after a discount to the market price is applied over the course of a commitment period extending to October 2009. The reasons for terminating the January agreements included the parties’ decision to decrease the number of shares, which were required to be registered pursuant to the January Registration Rights Agreement and to change certain mechanics relating to the exercise of put options. Copies of the September 14, 2006 Private Equity Agreement and Registration Rights Agreement were attached as exhibits to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 15, 2006. We are required to draw down a minimum of one hundred thousand dollars. Under the Brittany Private Equity Credit Agreement if we draw a lesser amount, we must pay Brittany an amount equal to eight percent of the difference between that amount and the minimum. As of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have drawn down $599,019. Number of shares issuable under the Private Equity Credit Agreement. We cannot predict the actual number of shares of common stock that may be issued under the Private Equity Credit Agreement, in part because the purchase price of the shares will fluctuate based on prevailing market conditions and we have not determined the total amount of cash advances we intend to draw. Based on the closing price of our common stock of $0.0009 on September 26, 2008, we would have to issue to Brittany approximately 16.7 billion shares of our common stock in order to draw down the $15 million available to us under the Private Equity Credit Agreement. Dilution. The issuance and sale of shares under the Private Equity Credit Agreement has had and will continue to have a significant dilutive impact on our stockholders for several reasons, including the following: The lower our stock price is, the more shares we would have to issue for a given draw down amount. The shares we may issue under the Private Equity Credit Agreement are at a discount to the market price. The issuance of shares under the agreement will increase the number of shares we have outstanding, and their subsequent resale will increase the number of freely tradable shares in the market. Brittany is an “underwriter” under the Securities Act, as amended, in connection with the sale of common stock issuable pursuant to our Private Equity Credit Agreement. Under this agreement, after our delivery of a notice of our intent to put shares, Brittany will pay us, in two equal installments, the amount of the draw-down we request in exchange for a number of shares equal to 92% of the average of three closing bid prices during the applicable valuation period preceding the date on which the installment is completed. The 8% discount on the purchase of common stock to be received by Brittany is an underwriting discount. We are required to pay Southridge Investment Group, LLC, formerly Greenfield Capital Partners, LLC, a registered broker dealer, a fee in cash, equal to 1% of the amounts, if any, we may draw down for services related to the establishment of our Private Equity Credit Agreement. 7 Products and Services NuCap™ Description. NuCap, formerly called EKOR, was developed jointly by scientists at the I.V. Kurchatov Institute, or Kurchatov, and members of the Euro-Asian Physical Society, or EAPS, both based in Moscow, Russia. EKOR was the brand name for a family of materials designed for the purposes of long-term isolation of radioactive or otherwise hazardous materials. As a silicon-based elastomer, NuCap’s adhesive properties allow it to stick to a wide variety of wet or dry surfaces and materials. When applied, NuCap materials surround and immobilize radioactive or hazardous debris ranging from fine dust to large pieces of equipment and, in combination with their fire-resistant and water- proof properties prevent such debris from migrating by water or as air-borne particles. NuCap materials also possess other highly desirable performance characteristics such as chemical resistance, fire resistance, heat resistance, and resistance to environmental aging and degradation from radiation. In addition to its unique combination of performance characteristics, NuCap comes in multiple product forms and can be applied using specified methods for waste-coating and encapsulation. We believe that this allows NuCap to be used as a solution for a broad spectrum of nuclear and hazardous waste management problems. The NuCap product family’s performance characteristics and flexibility of form make it a tool for a broad spectrum of applications. There are currently five basic forms of NuCap: 1. Sealer Plus, which can be sprayed to coat containers or cover contaminated surfaces; 2. Foam, which is pumped in a range of densities to fill crevices, ducts or pipes; 3. Grout, applied in a pour and mix method, which can be used to make shapes for shielding or to macroencapsulate items to form an unleachable monolith for transportation or disposal; 4. Matrix, applied in a pour and mix method, which can be used to microencapsulate radioactive or hazardous wastes to form an elastomeric monolith for transportation or disposal; and 5. StoneStore, applied in a pour and mix method, which can be used to microencapsulate highly radioactive waste and will form a ceramic monolith for permanent disposal. StoneStore is still in the research and development stage. Marketing. We are aggressively marketing NuCap for use in nuclear waste encapsulation and nuclear debris fixation for nuclear cleanup projects, nuclear facility decontamination and decommissionings, and nuclear waste transportation and disposal. As part of this strategy, we have completed a sales representation agreement with NuCon-RF to represent the Company on an exclusive basis in the former Soviet Union (“RF”) and non-exclusive basis in the European Community and a manufacturing agreement with Dow Corning. While we have sold small orders of NuCap™ into Europe and the United States we continue to see strong opportunities for NuCap and our other technologies, however, we can offer no assurance that our efforts will be successful. HNIPU Description. HNIPU is a hybrid polyurethane that does not involve the toxic isocyanates utilized in the production of conventional polyurethane and that has lower permeability and greater chemical resistance qualities as compared to conventional polyurethane. We believe that these advanced characteristics, in addition to the potential reduced risk from the elimination of isocyanates in its production, make HNIPU superior to conventional polyurethanes in connection with their use in a number of industrial application contexts such as manufacturing automotive components, paints, foams, plastics and truck bed liners; aerospace sealants, industrial adhesives, coatings, flooring, glues; industrial equipment and machinery; and consumer goods such as appliances, footwear, furniture and plastic products. Because of HNIPU’s lower permeability and improved chemical resistance, we think that industrial paints and coatings are a potential target market for HNIPU. Marketing. On November 17, 2003, we entered into an agreement with Environmental Friendly Materials, GMBH (“EFM”), a German company, for the manufacture and sale of HNIPU for the European marketplace. EFM has been given non-exclusive license to manufacture and distribute HNIPU and intends to manufacture it at various locations across Europe. We have applied for approval to sell HNIPU in the United States from the EPA and in May 2005 we were approved and have been put on their approved list of products. In February 2006, we received our first commercial order on HNIPU from a paint manufacturer in Israel. On August 30, 2006 we completed an updated Agreement with EFM that will expand its territory to include Southeast Asia. Because HNIPU represents a new class of polymer compounds closely related to polyurethanes, we expect that a variety of products will emerge from the development of variations and improvements to the existing HNIPU binders that have worldwide industrial applications. For this reason, we continue to seek to license HNIPU to large industrial polymer and chemical manufacturers who can sell the various HNIPU binders to international industrial manufacturers. This particular focus will be to transfer the existing binder product technologies under licensing agreements from our laboratory in Israel to the manufacturer. 8 EMR/AC Description. Eurotech licensed certain rights to Acoustic Core and Electromagnetic Radiography for specific markets, consisting of (i) illicit material detection, (ii) above surface or subsurface nuclear or other hazardous material remediation, (iii) marine dredging sites (inland and ocean) and (iv) oil exploration, from Trylon Metrics, Inc. pursuant to an agreement dated July 2001, as amended in October 2001. Eurotech licenses the illicit materials detection application to another company and licenses the remaining three applications to us. These technologies use a non-contact inspection methodology that creates signals that are then interpreted by a digital analyzer that allows identification of elemental or compound materials from their empirically determined properties. Acoustic Core is used in applications that are predominately wet (i.e., riverbeds, wetlands, etc.) and EMR is used in dry environments. Completed research and development studies have verified that Acoustic Core and EMR can identify materials by their acoustic or electromagnetic signatures, but the feature of these technologies that we believe is unique is their ability to map in three dimensions the existence of target materials at extremely low concentrations at depths of up to 300 feet. The capabilities of these technologies complement the NuCap product line by, for example, allowing tanks of waste to be monitored for leaks and the leaks, when discovered, targeted for repair. Acoustic Core and EMR may have applications in markets that involve subsurface evaluation, from contamination discovery and monitoring to resource discovery. Marketing. In conjunction with the marketing of NuCap, we intend to market EMR/AC to a variety of facilities requiring detection of nuclear waste contaminants and other environmentally hazardous substances in subsurface soil and ground water resulting from leaking storage tanks or toxic chemical spills. We are currently seeking a manufacturing partner for EMR/AC, and we are waiting until we find such a partner to pursue our marketing strategy for EMR/AC. RAD-X Description. Rad-X is a technology intended for use as an interior fire-resistant fixative for equipment or facilities with contaminated surfaces. Rad-X differs from NuCap Sealer Plus in that it is not weather-resistant and does not have the chemical, radiation and aging resistance needed for long-term protection. Rad-X provides a low-cost fixative for surfaces that are scheduled for disassembly or dismantlement and need strong adhesion (glue-down of contaminated particles that could become airborne) and fire-resistance properties. Rad-X was first marketed in 2001. Marketing. We are currently seeking a manufacturing partner for Rad-X, and we are waiting until we find such a partner to pursue our marketing strategy for Rad-X. Rapidly Biodegradable Hydrophobic Material (“RBHM”) Description. RBHM is a hydrophobic (water resistant), strong, cheap, and completely biodegradable cellulose-based composite material. RBHM is intended to improve the properties of both paper and plastic packaging materials. The material can be used as a commodity in trade, industry, and agriculture for a wide range of applications. To date, most attempts to produce biodegradable products for consumers have focused on developing plastics that could biodegrade. RBHM takes a different approach - making cellulose-based material with the same physical properties as plastic, except the material biodegrades completely in the same time as regular paper bags. RBHM consists of cellulose (paper) and biodegradable organic additives. Biodegradation of RBHM occurs in wet soil through normal enzymatic action of various microorganisms - fungi and bacteria. We believe that the main advantages of RBHM are: · Strength. RBHM’s strength characteristics, especially combined with low elongation and acquired water resistance of the material, make RBHM unique and desirable for packaging applications. · Water Resistance. RBHM keeps water resistance for one week. Most of the existing biodegradable packaging products are not hydrophobic at all and will fail if wetted during use. · Biodegradable Nature. Enzymes begin breaking down RBHM in the presence of moisture in natural environments such as soil. Then microorganisms decompose the material with rapidly occurring metabolic reactions. RBHM is completely converted into carbon dioxide, water, and biomass in two to three months in wet soil. · Reproducible Natural Raw Materials. RBHM uses cellulose, a widely available and renewable raw material. · Relatively Low Cost. The main obstacle to widespread use of biodegradable polymers has been cost. Traditionally, biodegradable polymers are significantly more expensive than commodity polymers. The high costs involved in the production of biodegradable polymers means that they cannot compete favorably with conventional polymers. This high cost has deterred the widespread adoption of biodegradable plastics in major consumer applications. At an additional cost of less than 10%, and sometimes less depending on the type of material treated, materials treated with RBHM provide plastic-like performance and are biodegradable. 9 We believe that there are many potential applications for a technology like RBHM. Because RBHM can be applied on sheets, films and fibers, it is suitable for a range of single-use products, including, among others, grocery and waste bags, the top and back sheets of disposable diapers, and disposable eating utensils. Marketing. We are currently seeking a manufacturing partner for RBHM, and we are waiting until we find such a partner to pursue our marketing strategy for RBHM, which will be through our website and dealer network. Liquid Ebonite Material (“LEM”) Description. LEM is a synthetic liquid rubber with enhanced mechanical, permeability and anti-corrosive qualities as compared to conventional sheet rubber coverings. In laboratory testing, coverings made with LEM, as compared to conventional sheet rubber coverings, have displayed greater resistance to harsh chemicals such as acids, alkalis and benzene, and have been successfully applied to intricate and complex surfaces such as sieve meshing. Based on the physical and chemical properties of LEM, and on the basis of such tests, we believe that LEM coverings are capable of providing superior protection to small-diameter piping and to the intricate parts of pumps, fans, and centrifuge rotors. LEM can be applied to form surface coverings using standard coating techniques, including spraying and dipping. Marketing. We are currently seeking a manufacturing partner for LEM, and we are waiting until we find such a partner to pursue our marketing strategy for LEM, which will be through our website. Firesil Description. Firesil is an environmentally compatible organomineral coating for fire-stop material with good adhesion properties to hydrophilic and hydrophobic surfaces. It exhibits strong fire resistance, thermostability, and water resistance characteristics. Marketing. We intend to market Firesil directly to corporations that are prospective candidates for sub-licensing the technology. Eurotech had Firesil tested by an accredited lab to ASTM protocol and it passed these tests. We are currently seeking a manufacturing partner for Firesil and will wait until we find such a partner to pursue a marketing strategy for Firesil. We have received some small commercial orders for our technology, but to date have derived no significant revenue from the above technologies that we license from Eurotech. The development and commercialization of NuCap™, HNIPU and the other technologies we license will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to identify manufacturing partners, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to conduct our activities in a way that builds interest in these products, or that any interest we do build will result in revenue to us. Furthermore, even if these licensed technologies do become a source of revenue for us, there is no guarantee such revenue will be sufficient to offset our administrative costs. Although the exclusive focus of our business is on the marketing of these licensed technologies, there can be no assurance that these efforts will succeed. Effect of Change in General Economy We have experienced a loss of business due to current economic conditions. We have seen evidence of existing and potential customers purchasing our competitor’s products, which we believe to be lower-performing, and may be available at a lower-cost. Competition Our licensed technologies are targeted at highly competitive markets. Due to the nature and size of some of the markets and some of the projects for which our licensed technologies may be applicable, there are sometimes other competitors who may have significantly greater name recognition and greater financial and other resources than we do. Many of these competitors also have technologies that are very competitive with our licensed technologies. For example, NuCap is a composite material based on a silicone polymer that is different from other silicones produced by manufacturers such as GE Silicones, but the products produced by any of these manufacturers may compete with NuCap. As another example, some of the major producers of polyurethanes used in coatings and finishes, sealants and adhesives, which products may compete with the HNIPU technology, include Akzo Nobel, Dow Chemical and Kansai. 10 Intellectual Property Rights General Many entities, including some developing technologies similar to ours, now have and may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services directly or indirectly related to the technologies that we license from Eurotech. In general, if a court determines that one or more of the licensed technologies infringes on intellectual property held by others, we would be required to cease infringing on intellectual property held by others, we would be required to cease developing or marketing those products or to obtain licenses to develop and market those products from the holders of the intellectual property, or to redesign those products in such a way as to avoid infringing the patent claims. If a competitor holds intellectual property rights, the entity might be predisposed to exercise its right to prohibit our use of its intellectual property in our products and services, thus impacting our competitive position. There can be no assurance that we are aware of all patents and other intellectual property rights that the licensed technologies may potentially infringe. In addition, patent applications in the United States are confidential until the Patent and Trademark Office issues a patent and, accordingly, we cannot evaluate the extent to which the licensed technologies may infringe claims contained in pending patent applications. Further, it is often not possible to determine definitively whether a claim of infringement is valid, absent protracted litigation, which we may not have the resources to pursue. We cannot estimate the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others and the availability and cost of any such licenses. Those costs, and their impact on our financial position, could be material. Damages in patent infringement cases can also include a tripling of actual damages in certain cases. To the extent that we are required to pay royalties to third parties to whom we are not currently making payments, these increased costs of doing business could negatively affect our liquidity and operating results. In addition, there may be entities developing and marketing technologies that infringe on patents and intellectual property rights held by us. Patent infringement claims are protracted and costly. We may not have the resources to adequately protect our intellectual property. Any expenditure to pursue intellectual property rights by us could negatively affect us. NuCap™ Intellectual Property Rights EAPS has patented EKOR in the U.S., Russia, and other industrialized countries. On March 23, 1999, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued to EAPS Patent No. 5,886,060 on the process for manufacturing one of the EKOR compound variants. Pursuant to a sub-license agreement, Eurotech became the exclusive global licensee of all right, title and interest (inclusive of all patent and other intellectual property rights now or in the future) in EKOR. We are a licensee of Eurotech and have renamed the product NuCap. We do not know if additional proprietary technology that we have developed relating to NuCap will prove patentable. We have applied for trademark protection for the mark “NuCap” with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and received the mark NuCap during the last quarter 2005. HNIPU Intellectual Property Rights U.S. Patent Number 6120905 for HNIPU network polymers and composites formed there from was issued on September 19, 2000. Patents for this technology have also been issued in Europe (EP 1088021, PCT WO 9965969) and Australia (4441099). These patents have been assigned to Eurotech. The method of synthesis of cyclocarbonates and nonisocyanate or hybrid nonisocyanate network polyurethanes is patent applied for in the United States, which application has been assigned to Eurotech. We are a licensee of Eurotech. As a regular part of our business activities, we intend to submit patent applications to protect our developed intellectual property, improvements and extensions, although we do not know whether any technologies that we develop will be patentable. EMR/AC Intellectual Property Rights U.S. Patent Number 4,922,467 for Acoustic Detection Apparatus (Acoustic Core) was issued to David Caulfield on May 1, 1990 and subsequently assigned to Ocean Data Equipment Corporation. This patent was significantly improved, for which U.S. Patent Number 6,545,945 was issued on April 8, 2003. Electromagnetic Radiography technology has been protected under trade secret laws. The worldwide exclusive licensing rights to these technologies for the detection of nuclear and hazardous materials at nuclear remediation and marine dredging sites, and for oil exploration, were obtained by Eurotech and, except to the extent related to the illicit materials detection application of these technologies, were subsequently licensed to us. LEM Intellectual Property Rights Eurotech has acquired the intellectual property rights associated with U.S. Patent Number 6303683 (issued October 16, 2001) for Liquid Ebonite mixtures and coatings, and concretes formed there from and an application filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT/US99/16883) on July 26, 1999 by Dr. Igor Figovsky, the inventor of these technologies. We are a licensee of Eurotech. 11 Firesil Intellectual Property Rights Eurotech acquired the formula for Firesil from Dr. Figovsky, its inventor, in 2000. Eurotech terminated previously initiated patent applications and has elected to protect this formula as a trade secret. Eurotech owns the federally registered trademark “Firesil”. We are a licensee of Eurotech. Government Regulation The use of NuCap™ is subject to U.S. environmental safety laws and regulations pertaining to the safe use and containment of hazardous and nuclear waste. Based on the results of tests conducted by Eurotech, we believe that the NuCap compounds meet current applicable regulations for safe use, containment and storage of hazardous and nuclear materials. It is, however, possible that more stringent or different standards may be adopted or applied in the future that might influence the intended use for NuCap and it is also possible that the standards, if adopted or applied, may materially increase the cost to us of using NuCap compounds or prevent their use altogether. We are not aware of any other U.S. or foreign laws or regulations that significantly hinder the marketing, sale, or use of NuCap based materials. The manufacture of HNIPU and operation of EMR/AC equipment is not expected to be impacted adversely by government regulations. HNIPU’s MSDS identifies the limited risks associated with the manufacture, handling and application of the non-isocyanate polyurethane. OSHA outlines operational regulations as related to acoustic frequencies and power levels as might be applied to EMR/AC operations. We have currently applied to the EPA for approval of HNIPU to be sold in the United States. The manufacture and use of HNIPU is subject to U.S. environmental safety laws and regulations pertaining to the safe use of chemicals and polymeric materials. While HNIPU does not use highly toxic compounds like isocyanates, it is still subject to governmental regulations, but based on preliminary assessments by Eurotech we believe that HNIPU compounds will meet current and future regulations. If we are successful in licensing various HNIPU binders to chemical and polymer manufacturers, we expect that the licensees will bear the costs of applying for governmental approvals required for manufacturing and industrial usage. We are not aware of any other U.S. or foreign laws or regulations that significantly hinder the marketing, sale, or use of HNIPU based materials. Environmental Considerations and Regulations The Company has implemented environmental programs and policies designed to avoid potential liability under applicable environmental laws. The Company has not incurred any significant environmental compliance cost, and compliance with environmental regulations has not had a material effect on the Company's operations or financial condition. This is primarily due to the Company's general policies of closely monitoring its compliance with all environmental laws. In the future, the Company does not expect environmental compliance to have a material effect on its operations and financial condition. The Company's policy for determining the timing and amount of any environmental cost is to reflect an expense as and when the cost becomes probable and reasonably capable of estimation. Employees We currently employ 1 individual full-time and 2 part time sales and marketing consultants and 1 part time consultant who serves as our Chief Financial Officer. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties relating to our business. You should carefully consider the following information about risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, before you decide to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. We believe the risks described below are the risks that are material to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business financial condition, operating results and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. 12 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We do not believe we have, and we are unsure whether we will be able to generate, sufficient funds to sustain our operations through the next twelve months. Our management believes that currently available funds will not be sufficient to sustain our operations at current levels through the next twelve months. The Company has incurred losses from continuing operations during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 of approximately, $1.7 million, $5.3 million and $3.0 million resulting in an accumulated deficit balance of approximately $38.1 million as of December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006, we had only $1,397 in cash and a working capital deficiency of $3.7 million. Our ability to continue to operate at current levels depends upon, among other things, our ability to generate sufficient revenue from the sale of our products and services and the receipt of continued funding from our existing short-term and long-term financing sources. In the long-term, our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on generating sufficient revenue from product sales and the sale of our services. Our ability to generate significant revenue from any of these or other sources is uncertain. Historically, our operations have not generated sufficient revenue to cover our costs. In the event that our operations do not generate sufficient cash, we could be required to reduce our level of operations while attempting to raise additional working capital. We can give no assurance that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The failure to obtain any necessary additional financing would have a material adverse effect on us. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations and any intended expansion, to take advantage of business opportunities, to develop or enhance products or services or to otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited, and we might need to significantly restrict or discontinue our operations. We have a history of operating losses, and there is no assurance we will achieve profitability in the future. If we cannot obtain additional capital required to fund our operations and finance our growth, our business will suffer. As described above, we have a history of operating losses. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, and, 2005, we recorded net losses of $1.7 million and $6.1 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $38.1 million. If we continue to experience operating losses, an investment in our common stock is at risk of being lost. We cannot predict when, or if, we will ever achieve profitability. The continued development of our current technologies or acquisitions of new technologies will require additional capital. If we are unable to generate additional capital through our operations, we will be required to resort to financing activities. We may be unable to obtain additional funds in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, if at all, which would render us unable to fund our operations or expand our business. If we are unable to obtain capital when needed, we may have to restructure our business or delay or abandon our development and expansion plans. Although we have been successful in the past in obtaining financing for working capital and capital expenditures, we will have ongoing capital needs as we expand our business. Our inability to obtain adequate financing will result in the need to curtail business operations. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity or convertible securities: · the ownership percentage of our common stock will be reduced; · the value of our stock may be diluted; · we may issue securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock; and · the terms of any additional indebtedness may include restrictive financial and operating covenants that would limit our ability to compete and expand, thereby increasing the price of our stock. We have a going concern qualification in the report by our independent registered public accounting firm for our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, which may make it difficult to raise capital and may require us to scale back or cease operations. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements as of December 31, 2006 and for the year then ended contains an explanatory paragraph stating that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going-concern, which indicates an absence of obvious or reasonably assured sources of future funding that will be required by us to maintain ongoing operations. Our ability to obtain additional funding will determine our ability to continue as a going concern. Accordingly, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. This uncertainty may affect our ability to raise additional capital and may also negatively impact our relationships with current and potential suppliers and customers. 13 The management of our finances and the quality and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected if we are unable to increase the size and capabilities of our internal administrative and finance function as our business grows. We have engaged an outside consulting firm (other than our independent registered public accounting firm) to provide financial management and accounting services on a temporary basis. If we are unable to retain sufficient financial management and accounting services on a cost-effective basis, our ability to effectively manage our finances and the quality and timeliness of our financial reporting could be adversely affected. We are currently dependent upon external financing, including our Private Equity Credit Agreement with Brittany Capital Management, to fund our operations and may not be able to access sufficient funds when needed. As a result, our business may suffer. Currently, we are dependent upon external financing to fund our operations. Our financing needs are expected to be provided, in large part, by our Private Equity Credit Agreement dated September 14, 2006 with Brittany Capital Management. We have registered the resale of 7,800,000 shares of common stock we may issue under this agreement pursuant to our registration statement on Form SB-2, as amended (file No. 333-137833). The number of shares we have to issue for a given draw down under the Private Equity Credit Agreement has an inverse relationship to our market price. Therefore, the lower our market price, the less we will be able to raise by issuing the 7,800,000 registered shares to Brittany. In the event we have additional financing needs after we have exhausted these shares, we will need to find alternative methods of financing our operations or registering additional shares to be issued under the Private Equity Credit Agreement. In addition, our access to funds under the Private Equity Credit Agreement may be limited by the following factors: · Maximum Put Amount. The maximum amount of each put is equal to the lesser of (a) $500,000, or (b) 500% percent of the weighted average volume for the 20 trading days immediately preceding the put date. · 9.99% Cap. Our Private Equity Credit Agreement provides that in no event shall the number of shares issuable to Brittany cause it to own in excess of 9.99% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. Because of this maximum advance restriction, we may not be able to access sufficient funds when needed. · Authorized Shares of Common Stock. At the market price of our common stock as of September 30, 2008 ($0.0009 per share), it would require 16.7 billion shares to draw down the full $15,000,000 available under the agreement, and we had only 533.8 million shares of common stock available for issuance as of September 30, 2008. It may be necessary for our shareholders to approve an increase to the common stock available for issuance under our Certificate of Incorporation, whether by increasing the number of shares we are authorized to issue, effecting a reverse split of our common stock (thereby decreasing the number of shares outstanding), or both. If we are unable to access sufficient funds when needed, our business may suffer. We face intense competition, which could result in lower revenues and higher research and development expenditures and could adversely affect our results of operations. If we do not develop or acquire new and enhanced products, or if we are not able to invest adequately in our research and development activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Many of our competitors have significantly more cash and resources than we have. Our competitors may introduce products that are competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality, or incorporate technological advances that we have not yet developed or implemented. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop, market and sell new and enhanced systems and products at competitive prices, which will require significant research and development expenditures. If we cannot effectively manage our growth, our business may suffer. Recently, we have expanded our operations to pursue existing and potential new market opportunities. This growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a strain on our personnel, management, financial and other resources. To manage our growth effectively, we must, among other things: · successfully attract, train, motivate and manage a larger number of employees for sales and customer support activities; 14 · control working capital requirements; and · improve the efficiency of our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems, procedures and controls. If we fail to manage our growth properly, we may incur unnecessary expenses and the efficiency of our operations may decline. If we are unable to expand into new markets, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy and our ultimate business objectives. A significant element of our future growth strategy involves the expansion of our business into new geographic and product markets. Expansion of our operations depends, among other things, on the success of our marketing strategy in new markets, successfully establishing and operating new locations, hiring and retaining qualified management and other personnel and obtaining adequate financing for working capital purposes. If our efforts in expansion are unsuccessful, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy and our ultimate business objectives, and as a result, may lose our competitive position. We may be unable to hire and retain the skilled personnel we need to expand our operations. To meet our growth objectives, we must attract and retain highly skilled technical, operational, managerial and sales and marketing personnel. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary personnel, we may be unable to achieve our business objectives and may lose our competitive position, which could lead to a significant decline in net sales. We face significant competition for these skilled professionals from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Our success depends on the services of our executive officers and key employees, and the loss of such employees could have a serious negative impact on our business and operations. We depend upon the continued services of our senior management for our continued success. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to retain our senior management or other key personnel. We have no employment agreements with or key-man insurance coverage on any members of our senior management. The loss of any member of senior management could have a serious negative impact upon our business and operating results. Our business may suffer if we cannot protect our proprietary technology. Our ability to compete depends significantly upon our trade secrets and our other proprietary technology. We have filed patents in connection with HNIPU and have a trade secret on NuCap™. We are also a licensee with respect to certain of Eurotech’s patents. These steps that we have taken to protect our technology may be inadequate to prevent others from using what we regard as our technology to compete with us. Existing trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws offer only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary technology to the same extent as the laws of the United States, which could increase the likelihood of misappropriation. Furthermore, other companies could independently develop similar or superior technology without violating our intellectual property rights. Any misappropriation of our technology or the development of competing technology, or our licenses from Eurotech, could seriously harm our competitive position, which could lead to a substantial reduction in net sales. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome, disruptive and expensive, distract the attention of management, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and financial condition. Our industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents, patents that may be issued in the future, or other intellectual property rights of others. We do not conduct exhaustive patent searches to determine whether the technology used in our products infringes patents held by third parties. In addition, product development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed, with regard to similar technologies. 15 We may face claims by third parties that our products or technology infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is invalid, and could distract the attention of our management. If any of our products are found to violate third-party proprietary rights, we may be required to pay substantial damages. In addition, we may be required to re-engineer our products or obtain licenses from third parties to continue to offer our products. Any efforts to re-engineer our products or obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms may not be successful, which would prevent us from selling our products, and, in any case, could substantially increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We are not subject to the same corporate governance standards as listed companies. This may affect market confidence and company performance. As a result, our business could be harmed and the price of our stock could decrease. Registered stock exchanges have adopted enhanced corporate governance requirements that apply to issuers that list their securities on those markets. These standards deal with the rights and responsibilities of a company’s management, its board, shareholders and various stakeholders. How well companies are run may affect market confidence as well as company performance. Our common stock is quoted on the Pink OTC Markets, Inc, which does not have comparable requirements. As a result, our business and the price of our stock may be adversely affected. New corporate governance requirements have made it more difficult to attract qualified directors. As a result, our business may be harmed and the price of our stock may be adversely affected. New corporate governance requirements have increased the role and responsibilities of directors and executive officers of public companies. These new requirements will make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur significantly higher costs to obtain coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve as members of our board of directors. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We are required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Our internal controls over financial reporting may have weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed, the disclosure of which may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely impact our public disclosures regarding our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may identify weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed, disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure of our independent registered public accounting firm’s attestation to or report on management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Standards for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are uncertain, and if we fail to comply in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of this assessment by our independent registered public accountant. Unless the SEC delays the date on which this requirement becomes effective, we will first have to include management’s report of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report for fiscal year ending December 31, 2008 and our auditor’s attestation of this assessment in our annual report for fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. The standards that must be met for management to assess the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of its internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation of its assessment by our independent registered public accountants. If management cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, or our independent auditors are unable to issue an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Our stock price has been volatile. From January 1, 2004 to September 30, 2008, the trading price of our common stock ranged from $3.00 to $0.0005 per share. Many factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: · variations in our quarterly results of operations; 16 · the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; · acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors; · future sales of shares of common stock in the public market; and · market conditions in our industries and the economy as a whole. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company’s stock drops significantly, stockholders at times institute securities class action litigation against that company. Any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources or otherwise harm our business. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. In addition, before we may pay any dividends with respect to our common stock, we must pay the holders of our preferred stock an equivalent dividend. If we determine that we are in the position to declare a dividend, the amount of the dividend we ultimately declare may be substantially reduced as the result of our obligations under the terms of our preferred stock. Our charter, bylaws and Delaware law may deter takeovers. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect and discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or an acquisition that many stockholders may find attractive. These provisions may also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to take some corporate actions, including the election of directors. These provisions relate to: · the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock, and determine its terms, without a stockholder vote; · the classification of our board of directors, which effectively prevents stockholders from electing a majority of the directors at any one annual meeting of stockholders; · the limitation that directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote; and · advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We have been unable to file our SEC filings on time We were unable to file this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, our Annual Report for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and the Quarterly Reports for our each of our fiscal periods ending March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007, September 30, 2007, March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008 on a timely basis. The late filings of these documents may adversely affect our ability to raise capital and may have eroded investor confidence. Because we have failed to comply with our reporting obligations with the SEC, our shareholders have not had adequate information about us, and any trading markets currently existing for our securities may have decreased or continue to decrease, and our shareholders may be finding, or will find it difficult to sell their shares. We will continue to make every effort to bring all our SEC filings up-to-date. Existing stockholders will experience significant dilution from our sale of shares under the Private Equity Credit Agreement, the conversion of notes and preferred stock, and the exercise of warrants. To date, we have funded our operations through equity investments and issuances of debt. Stockholders will experience substantial dilution as a result of our agreements with our investors. The number of shares issuable under some of these arrangements is indeterminate. The issuance and sale of common stock to our investors will reduce the ownership interest of our existing stockholders in our company, and may depress the value of our common stock. In addition, the subsequent resale by the investors of those shares may further reduce our share price. 17 If an active and liquid market for our common stock does not develop, or is not sustained, it may be difficult for investors to resell their shares. As a result, they may not be able to sell their shares when they want. Our common stock is not traded on a registered securities exchange and we do not meet the initial listing criteria for any registered securities exchange. It is quoted on the less-recognized Pink OTC Markets, Inc. This factor may impair an investor’s ability to sell his shares when he wants and/or could depress our stock price. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations of the price of, our securities because smaller quantities of shares could be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed and security analyst and news coverage of our company may be reduced. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bids and ask prices for our shares. Due to the current price of our common stock, many brokerage firms may not be willing to effect transactions in our securities, particularly because of an SEC rule imposing additional sales requirements on broker-dealers who sell low-priced securities (generally those below $5.00 per share). These factors severely limit the liquidity of our common stock and likely have a material adverse effect on our market price and on our ability to raise additional capital. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our stock, if any, will lead to an increase in our market price or the development of a more active trading market or how liquid that market might become. If the price of our stock continues to decline and we cannot prepay or repay the notes we have issued, we will be in default and the holders of the notes will have the remedies available to creditors. Some or all of our assets could be liquidated, our operations may be disrupted and our business may suffer. If the market price of our common stock falls below $0.03 per share for 10 consecutive trading days, holders of the notes may require us to prepay (within 60 days of the receipt of a notice of such election) the principal outstanding at the time of such prepayment plus a premium equal to 140% of the principal amount being prepaid. If we are unable to meet such obligation under the notes, we will be in default, and the holders of the notes will have the remedies available to creditors. All of our assets are subject to security agreements, and the holders of these notes, in the event of default, could foreclose and liquidate some or all of our assets. The claims of our creditors to our assets are senior to those of our stockholders. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for Global Matrechs common stock as it is subject to these penny stock rules. These rules severely limit the liquidity, if any, of our common stock, and would likely have a material adverse effect on its market price and on our ability to raise additional capital. Our common stock is deemed to be a “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell these shares due to suitability and disclosure requirements. Due to the current price of our common stock, $0.0005 on December 5, 2008, many brokerage firms may not be willing to effect transactions in its securities, particularly because low-priced securities are subject to SEC rules (referred to as the “penny stock rules”) imposing additional sales requirements on broker-dealers who sell low-priced securities (generally those below $5.00 per share). These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for Global Matrechs common stock as it is subject to these penny stock rules. These rules severely limit the liquidity, if any, of our common stock, and would likely have a material adverse effect on its market price and on our ability to raise additional capital. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the Commission, that: (a) contains a description of the nature and level of risk in the market for penny stocks in both public offerings and secondary trading; (b) contains a description of the broker’s or dealer’s duties to the customer and of the rights and remedies available to the customer with respect to a violation to such duties or other requirements of Securities’ laws; (c) contains a brief, clear, narrative description of a dealer market, including bid and ask prices for penny stocks and the significance of the spread between the bid and ask price; (d) contains a toll-free telephone number for inquiries on disciplinary actions; (e) defines significant terms in the disclosure document or in the conduct of trading in penny stocks; and (f) contains such other information and is in such form, including language, type, size and format, as the SEC may require by rule or regulation. In addition, the broker-dealer also must provide, prior to effecting any transaction in a penny stock, the customer with: (a) bid and offer quotations for the penny stock; (b) the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction; (c) the number of shares to which such bid and ask prices apply, or other comparable information relating to the depth and liquidity of the market for such stock; and (d) monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. Finally, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written acknowledgment of the receipt of a risk disclosure statement, a written agreement to transactions involving penny stocks, and a signed and dated copy of a written suitability statement. These requirements may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors, brokers and traders. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. 18 We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our common stock or a business combination, if any, will lead to an increase in its market price or the development of an active trading market or how liquid that market, if any, might become. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 