Risk Factors," in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2009, and other filings with the SEC, and are subject to change at any time. Our actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement. ITEM 1. BUSINESS - ---------------- OVERVIEW: Competitive Technologies, Inc. ("CTT"), was incorporated in Delaware in 1971, succeeding an Illinois corporation incorporated in 1968. CTT and its subsidiaries (collectively, "we," "our," or "us"), provide distribution, patent and technology transfer, sales and licensing services focusing on the needs of our customers, matching those requirements with commercially viable technology or product solutions. We develop relationships with universities, companies, inventors and patent or intellectual property holders to obtain the rights or a license to their intellectual property (collectively, the "technology" or "technologies"), or to their product. They become our clients, for whom we find markets to sell or further develop or distribute their technology or product. We also develop relationships with those who have a need or use for technologies or products. They become our customers, usually through a license or sublicense, or distribution agreement. We earn revenue in two ways, from licensing our clients' and our own technologies to our customer licensees, and in a business model that allows us to share in the profits of distribution of finished products. Our customers pay us license fees, royalties based on usage of the technology, or per unit fees, and we share that revenue with our clients. Our revenue fluctuates due to changes in revenue of our customers, upfront license fees, new licenses granted, new distribution agreements, expiration of existing licenses or agreements, and/or the expiration or economic obsolescence of patents underlying licenses or products. We acquire rights to commercialize a technology or product on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis, worldwide or limited to a specific geographic area. When we license or sublicense those rights to our customers, we may limit rights to a defined field of use. Technologies can be early, mid, or late stage. Products we evaluate must be working prototypes or finished products. We establish channel partners based on forging relationships with mutually aligned goals and matched competencies to deliver solutions that benefit the ultimate end-user. The Company incurred an operating loss for fiscal 2009, as well as an operating loss in fiscal 2008. During fiscal 2007, we had a significant concentration of revenues from our homocysteine assay technology. The main patent for this technology expired in July 2007 and we will not receive revenues for sales made after that date. Revenue in 2008 for the homocysteine technology reflects previously unreported back royalties. We continue to seek revenue from new technologies or products to mitigate the concentration of revenues, and replace revenues from expiring licenses. At current reduced spending levels, the Company may not have sufficient cash flow to fund operating expenses beyond second quarter fiscal 2010. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include adjustments to reflect the possible future effect of the recoverability and classification of assets or amounts and classifications of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. The Company's continuation as a going concern is dependent upon its developing other recurring revenue streams sufficient to cover operating costs. If necessary, we will meet anticipated operating cash requirements by further reducing costs, and/or pursuing sales of certain assets and technologies while we pursue licensing and distribution opportunities for our remaining portfolio of technologies. The company does not have any significant individual cash or capital requirements in the budget going forward. In addition, we will sell shares to Fusion Capital Fund II, LLC ("Fusion Capital") per our 2009 Agreement, on an as-needed basis, when the Company's stock price is at Page 3 or above $1.00 per share. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in such efforts or that we will be able to obtain alternative financing should our stock price fall below $1.00 per share. Failure to develop a recurring revenue stream sufficient to cover operating expenses would negatively affect the Company's financial position. PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION SERVICES Our services are beneficial to the inventor, manufacturer and distributor of the product. We evaluate a working prototype or finished product for marketability. We find opportunities through industry connections and contacts, and trade shows. We select products we will represent, negotiate with potential domestic and international distributors, and sign agreements on a country and/or area exclusive basis. We earn revenue on a per-unit basis through product distribution agreements. We share the revenue with the product inventor, and/or manufacturer. TECHNOLOGY COMMERCIALIZATION SERVICES Our services are beneficial to the provider and user of the technology. The technology client can focus on research and development, rather than selling and marketing, as we effectively become their marketing department. The technology customer can focus on selling and marketing, rather than research and development. We maintain and enforce our clients' and our technology patent rights, by monitoring and addressing infringement. We maximize the value of technologies for the benefit of our clients, customers and shareholders. We identify and commercialize innovative technologies in life and physical sciences, electronics, and nano science. Life sciences include medical testing, diagnostics, pharmaceuticals, biotechnologies, medical devices and other medical or biological applications. Physical sciences include chemical, display, and environmental applications. Electronics include communications, semiconductors, Internet related, e-commerce and consumer electronics applications. Nanotechnologies are the manipulation of microscopic particles into useful arrangements, and smart or novel materials; a nano particle is one thousand times smaller than the width of a human hair. We have technologies in each area, with a concentration in life sciences. Over the years we have licensed nearly 500 technologies to and from corporations, and can count as our clients a number of major universities and inventors. We are a vital part of the technology commercialization community, and have generated over $100 million in shared technology revenues to universities. PORTFOLIO ACQUISITION We continue to expand relationships with universities and inventors, increasing the number of clients, products and technologies we represent, and establishing us as the premier technology commercialization and product distribution company. The goal is to have a pipeline of technologies and distribution products that will generate a long-term recurring revenue stream. We evaluate potential technologies based on the strength of the intellectual property, our ability to protect it, its life stage, further development time needed, compatibility with existing technology in our portfolio, marketability, market size, and potential profitability. We evaluate potential products for distribution based on their capability to fulfill an unmet market need and/or social responsibility. We focus on products that improve quality-of-life. The goal is to acquire products for distribution that have a competitive advantage, proprietary know-how and/or regulatory approval. We seek exclusive rights to manufacture, market and distribute the products. Numerous technologies and products are reviewed and evaluated in terms of current, mid- and long-term revenue potential. Both products and technologies have the potential to produce different levels of revenue throughout the life of the agreement. We obtain rights to improvements and/or refinements that extend the life of the product or technology, increasing the potential revenue. We continuously review the revenue potential of our product and technology portfolio to generate a long-term recurring revenue stream. Page 4 A non-disclosure agreement signed with a prospective client allows us access to confidential information about the product or technology. We require similar non-disclosure agreements from prospective customers when we commercialize the product or technology. We include mutual non-disclosure provisions about the product or technology in agreements granted to protect value, for CTT, our clients and our customers. As a result of these obligations, as well as federal regulations for disclosure of confidential information, we may only be able to disclose limited information about licenses and sublicenses granted for products or technologies we evaluate, as is necessary for an understanding of our financial results. MARKETING TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS We commercialize technologies and products through contacts in research and development, legal firms, major corporations, seminars and trade shows. We determine the most likely users of the technologies or distributors of products, and contact prospective customers. TECHNOLOGY PROTECTION AND LITIGATION Protecting our technologies from unintentional and willful patent infringement, domestically and internationally, is an important part of our business. We sometimes assist in preparation of initial patent applications, and often are responsible for prosecuting and maintaining patents. Unintentional infringement, where the infringer usually does not know that a patent exists, can often be resolved by the granting of a license. In cases of willful infringement, certain infringers will continue to infringe absent legal action, or, companies may successfully find work-arounds to avoid paying proper monies to us and our clients for use of our technologies. We defend our technologies on behalf of ourselves, our clients and licensees, and pursue patent infringement cases through litigation, if necessary. Such cases, even if settled out of court, may take several years to resolve, with expenses borne by our clients, us, or shared. Proceeds from the case are usually shared in proportion to the costs. As a result, we may incur significant expenses in some years and be reimbursed through proceeds of awards or settlements several years later. In cases of willful infringement, patent law provides for the potential of treble damages at the discretion of the Court. REVENUE GENERATION We license technologies to generate revenue based on usage or sales of the technologies, or by sharing in the profits of distribution. When our customers pay us, we share the revenue with our clients. Product distribution We have established a new business model for appropriate technologies that allows us to move beyond our usual royalty arrangement and share in the profits of distribution. Distribution terms are set in written agreements for products, and are generally signed for exclusive area parameters. In late fiscal 2007, we obtained exclusive worldwide distribution rights to a non-invasive pain therapy device for rapid treatment of high-intensity oncologic and neuropathic pain, including pain resistant to morphine and other drugs. Developed in Italy by CTT's client, Prof. Giuseppe Marineo, DSc, MD, the technology was brought to CTT through the efforts of Prof. Giancarlo Elia Valori of the Italian business development group, Sviluppo Lazio S.p.A., and assistance from the Zangani Investor Community(TM). The unit, with a biophysical rather than a biochemical approach, uses a multi-processor able to simultaneously treat multiple pain areas by applying surface electrodes to the skin. The device's European CE mark certification allows it to be distributed and sold throughout Europe, and makes it eligible for approval for distribution and sales in multiple global markets. In February 2009, CTT received FDA 510(k) clearance for U.S. sales of the device. Several thousand patients in various hospitals have been successfully treated using the technology. CTT's partner, GEOMC Co., Ltd. of Korea, is manufacturing the product commercially for worldwide distribution. U.S. and international patents are pending. In July 2008, we signed a country-exclusive distribution agreement with Excel Life Sciences, Inc. for India. In the first six months fiscal 2009, we signed three additional country-exclusive distribution agreements with GEOMC Co., Ltd. for Korea, Biogene Pharma Limited for Bangladesh, and Able Global Healthcare Sdn. Bhd. for Malaysia. In February 2009, the Company signed an agreement with Life Episteme srl granting them exclusive distribution rights in 29 countries throughout Europe, Asia, Africa, the Middle East, South America and Oceania. Exclusive distribution rights in two additional countries were granted to Life Episteme in March 2009. Local sales authorization is required in each country. Page 5 In April 2009, the Company, acknowledging the current difficult economic climate, entered into an agreement with Americorp Financial, LLC (AFS), where AFS will provide financing of sales of the pain therapy medical device for 24 - 60 month lease periods to hospitals, clinics and medical practices in the U.S. AFS will provide financing services under the name, Competitive Technologies Financial Services. CTT will receive the full retail sales price of the device upon execution of each lease, while AFS carries the lease. Also in April 2009, we signed an agreement with Native Energy & Economic Development, giving them exclusive sales rights for selected U.S. government agencies, including the Department of Veteran's Affairs (VA), the Department of Defense (DOD), and the Indian Health Service (IHS). In July 2009, we signed an agreement with Innovative Medical Therapies, Inc. granting them exclusive distribution rights to CTT's pain therapy medical device in the United States and related territories excluding selected Federal agencies. The contract provides for minimum monthly cash payments to CTT totaling over $1 million for the first eight months. These minimum monthly payments increase each year throughout the term of the agreement with, for example, the fourth year minimum payments reaching $9 million and eighth year minimum payments of $21 million dollars. IMT will receive shipments of CTT's pain therapy medical device in return for these payments In October 2009, we signed an agreement with Athens, Greece-based Fintrade Medical granting them the exclusive rights to market and sell CTT's pain therapy medical device in Greece and Cyprus. Also in October 2009, we signed an agreement with Calmar Pain Relief, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Calmar"), with its headquarters in North Providence, Rhode Island. Calmar was established to provide medical equipment, office leasing, and other business services to medical doctors looking to offer CTT's non-invasive pain therapy to patients in a clinical setting. Calmar will furnish CTT's MC-5A pain therapy medical device to medical doctors who will open pain therapy treatment centers in selected U.S. cities over the next two years. The signed distribution agreements for this device, now cover more than 50% of the world's population. Another product in our distribution group is a compressed air drying device that eliminates water condensation, oil residues and solid particles that are contaminants present in compressed air lines, extending the life of pneumatic tools; Technology royalties Client and customer agreements are generally for the duration of the technology life, which usually is determined by applicable patent law. When we receive customer reports of sales or payments, whichever occurs first, we record revenue for our portion, and record our obligation to our clients for their portion. For early stage technologies that may not be ready for commercial development without further research, we may receive annual minimum payments and/or milestone payments based on research progress or subsequent sublicense or joint venture proceeds. In certain sublicense or license agreements, we may receive an upfront fee upon execution of the license. Our fees are generally non-refundable, and, except for annual minimums, are usually not creditable against future royalties. In certain cases, the first year or several years' royalties may be waived in consideration for an upfront fee. We may apply the upfront fee or initial fees to reimburse patent prosecution and/or maintenance costs incurred by either party. In these cases, payments are recorded as a reduction of expense, and not as revenue. If the reimbursement belongs solely to our client, we record no revenue or expense. As a result, a new technology may not generate significant revenue in its early years. Licensing terms are documented in written agreements with customers. We generally enter into single element agreements with customers, under which we have no additional obligations other than patent prosecution and maintenance. We may enter into multiple element agreements under which we have continuing service obligations. All revenue from multiple element agreements is deferred until delivery of all verifiable required elements. In milestone billing agreements we recognize non-refundable, upfront fees ratably over the life of the agreement, and milestone payments as the specified milestone is achieved. We evaluate billing agreements on a case-by-case basis, and record revenue as appropriate. We do not have multiple element or milestone billing agreements at this time, but have had such agreements in the past, and could have in the future. Page 6 In fiscal 2007, we had a significant concentration of revenue from our homocysteine assay technology. The main patent for this technology expired in July 2007 and we will not receive revenue for sales made after that date. Homocysteine revenue in 2008 reflects unreported back royalties. We actively market other technologies, and seek new technologies to mitigate this concentration of revenue and provide a steady future revenue stream. We have created a new business model for appropriate technologies that allows us to move beyond our usual royalty arrangement and share in the profits of distribution. Technologies that produced revenue equal to or exceeding 15% of our total retained royalties revenue, or at least $250,000 in 2009 and 2008 were: 2009 2008 -------- -------- Homocysteine assay $ 18,000 $276,000 Plant Regeneration $132,000 $ - Plasma display $ 30,000 $150,000 Sexual dysfunction $ - $320,000 As a percentage of total retained royalties for the same periods, these technologies represented: 2009 2008 ----- ----- Homocysteine assay 7% 28% Plant Regeneration 51% -% Plasma display 11% 15% Sexual dysfunction -% 33% The homocysteine assay is a diagnostic blood test used to determine homocysteine levels and a corresponding deficiency of folate or vitamin B12. Studies suggest that high levels of homocysteine may be a primary risk factor for cardiovascular, vascular and Alzheimer's diseases, and rheumatoid arthritis. The main patent for this technology expired in July 2007. We expect to receive revenue from this technology for sales made prior to that date. We will not receive revenue for sales made after that date. We are in litigation with Carolina Liquid Chemistries Corporation, and others, to recover funds that we believe are due us for homocysteine assays kits manufactured, sold or offered for sale in infringement of our patent. (For further information, see ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.) (For further information see ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.) The plant regeneration technology has been assigned to the University of Pennsylvania who pays us a royalty on any income earned from exploiting this technology. The technology is currently exclusively licensed to Syngenta Biotechnology, Inc. The plasma display technology is subject to annual minimum license fees. For fiscal 2009 we were able to record $30,000 in revenue based upon our receipt of the minimum license fee. This patent expired in August 2009 and we will receive no more royalties on this technology. On September 11, 2007, we presented Palatin with a Notice of Termination of the PT-14 technology license agreement, related to our sexual dysfunction technology, stating that Palatin committed a material breach of the agreement originally signed between the two companies on March 31, 1998. On January 22, 2008, we announced an agreement with Palatin terminating the March 31, 1998 agreement. As part of the January agreement, Palatin agreed to pay CTT $800,000. These funds were received in January 2008. CTT recorded revenue of $320,000 and reduced patent enforcement expenses by $480,000 in accordance with the agreement with our client. (For further information, see ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.) CTT retains all rights to the technology commonly known as PT-14, and is planning to develop this technology. We received no revenue from this technology during fiscal 2009. We receive revenue from legal awards that result from successful patent enforcement actions and/or out of court settlements. Such awards or settlements may be significant, are non-recurring and may include punitive damages, attorneys' fees, court costs and interest. Page 7 Other technologies in our life sciences portfolio, many of which are subject to testing, clinical trials and approvals, include: - Nanotechnology bone cement biomaterial with a broad range of potential applications, including dental, spinal and other bone related applications. Exclusively licensed to Soteira Inc. for human spinal applications; - Breast Cancer Test, a non-invasive device that generates an analysis that detects angiogenesis, using adhesive pads embedded with hundreds of thermistors, micro-thermometers; - Sunless tanning agent, a skin-pigment enhancer being researched as a skin cancer preventative, and therapeutic for vitiligo, albinism and psoriasis, exclusively licensed to Clinuvel Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. (Australia); - Lupus Diagnostic and Monitoring technology, a cost-effective scalable testing platform used to detect and monitor the autoimmune disease, Lupus; Our applied science/electronics portfolio includes: - Encryption technology that operates at high speeds with low memory requirements to secure applications used on the Internet, telecommunications, smart cards and e-commerce; - Video and audio signal processing technology licensed in the Motion Picture Electronics Group visual patent portfolio pool (MPEG 4 Visual), and used in streaming video products for personal computers and wireless devices, including mobile phones; - Radio Alert Warning System, a low powered dual-mode transmitter capable of short-range interruption of commercial radio broadcasting with a message alerting of an emergency situation; - Structural Steel Fissure Detection Paint contains a built-in, self-activating, crack-indicating or warning capability effective coincident with application of the paint to the structure, and requiring minimum training for its use. RETAINED ROYALTIES FROM FOREIGN SOURCES Retained royalties received from foreign licensees totaled approximately $43,000 and $237,000, in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Of the foreign sourced royalties received, $32,000 and $176,000, in 2009 and, 2008, respectively, were from Japanese licenses. INVESTMENTS From time to time we provide other forms of assistance and funding to certain development-stage companies to further develop specific technologies. EMPLOYEES As of October 13, 2009, we employed the full-time equivalent of 9 people. We also had independent consultants under contract to provide business development services. In addition to the diverse technical, intellectual property, legal, financial, marketing and business expertise of our professional team, from time to time we rely on advice from outside specialists to fulfill unique technology needs. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CTT's Corporate Governance Principles, Corporate Code of Conduct, the Committee Charters for the Audit and Nominating Committees of the Board of Directors, the unofficial restated Certificate of Incorporation and the By-Laws are available on our website at www.competitivetech.net/investors/governance.html. Page 8 Available Information We make available without charge copies of our Annual Report, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those, and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on our website, www.competitivetech.net, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed. Our website's content is not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or any other report we file with the SEC. You may request a paper copy of materials we file with the SEC by calling us at (203) 368-6044. You may read and copy materials we file with the SEC on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, or at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling (800) 732-0330. FISCAL YEAR Our fiscal year ends July 31, and our first, second, third and fourth quarters end October 31, January 31, April 30 and July 31, respectively. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - --------------------- RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND THE MARKET ENVIRONMENT The risk factors described below are not all-inclusive. All risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business, results of operations, and financial position. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements or risk factors. There may be other risks and uncertainties not highlighted herein that may affect our financial condition and business operations. CERTAIN OF OUR LICENSED PATENTS HAVE RECENTLY EXPIRED OR WILL EXPIRE IN THE NEAR FUTURE AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REPLACE THEIR ROYALTY REVENUE. In 2009, we earned retained royalties from licenses for 12 patented technologies. The patents for six of those patented technologies have or will expire between 2009 and 2011. Those patented technologies represented approximately 32% of our retained royalties in 2009. Retained royalties of approximately $50,000, or 19%, $15,000, or 6%, and $18,000, or 7%, were from patents expiring in fiscal, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. The loss of this revenue will materially and adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to replace it with revenue from other licenses or sources. Since it often takes two or more years for a technology to produce significant revenue, we continuously seek new sources of future revenue. SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO FUSION CAPITAL FUND II, LLC ("FUSION CAPITAL") WILL CAUSE DILUTION TO CURRENT SHAREHOLDERS AND FUSION'S RESALE OF THOSE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK COULD CAUSE THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE. In August 2009, we entered into an agreement with Fusion Capital Fund II, LLC (the "2009 Agreement") to sell up to $8 million of our common stock to Fusion Capital over a twenty-five (25) month period, subject to certain limitations and extensions. This was a new agreement, separate from the July 2008 agreement (the "2008 Agreement") with the same company that was terminated in August 2009. The purchase price for the common stock to be issued to Fusion Capital pursuant to the 2009 Agreement fluctuates based on the price of our common stock. The purchase price per share, not to be below $1 per share, is equal to the lesser of: (1) the lowest sale price of our common stock on the purchase date or (2) the average of the three (3) lowest closing sale prices of our common stock during the twelve (12) consecutive trading days prior to the date of a purchase by Fusion Capital. Pursuant to a registration statement filed with the SEC, all shares sold to Fusion Capital are freely tradable. Fusion Capital may sell none, some or all of the shares of common stock purchased from us at any time. We expect that Fusion Capital will resell any shares that they purchase over a period of up to twenty-five (25) months from the date of the 2009 Agreement. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, a sale of shares by Fusion Capital Page 9 at any given time could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price at which we might otherwise wish to effect sales. There were 1,962,823 shares of our common stock registered for sale to Fusion Capital, including 86,933 commitment shares that were issued on October 2, 2009 and additional commitment shares issuable under the agreement. The 1,962,823 registered shares equaled 19.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock at July 31, 2009. In addition to the 86,933 shares which were issued to Fusion Capital as an initial commitment fee on October 2, 2009 we may issue an additional 86,933 commitment shares to Fusion Capital as we sell shares to Fusion Capital. Since July 31, 2009 through October 27, 2009, we sold 210,197 shares, and issued 4,890 Commitment Shares of our common stock to Fusion Capital for approximately $450,000, and amortized approximately $34,089 of deferred charges against capital in excess of par value. The sale of shares to Fusion Capital may result in significant dilution to the ownership interests of other holders of our common stock. The amount of dilution would be higher if the per share market price of our common stock is lower at the time we sell shares to Fusion Capital, since a lower market price would cause more shares of our common stock to be issued to Fusion Capital for the same proceeds. Subsequent sales of these shares in the open market by Fusion Capital may also have the effect of lowering our stock price, thereby increasing the number of shares issuable to them under the common stock purchase agreement and consequently further diluting our outstanding shares. Although we have the right to reduce or suspend sales to Fusion Capital at any time, our financial condition at the time may require us to waive our right to suspend purchases even if there is a decline in the market price. Furthermore, the dilution caused by the issuance of shares to Fusion Capital may cause other shareholders to elect to sell their shares of our common stock, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease. In addition, prospective investors anticipating the downward pressure on the price of our common stock due to the shares available for sale by Fusion Capital could refrain from purchases or cause sales or short sales in anticipation of a decline of the market price, which may itself cause the price of our stock to decline. IN FOUR OF THE LAST FIVE FISCAL YEARS, WE INCURRED SIGNIFICANT NET LOSSES AND NEGATIVE CASH FLOWS, AND OUR ABILITY TO FINANCE FUTURE LOSSES IS LIMITED, AND MAY SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS. The table below summarizes our consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the five years ended July 31, 2009: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ---------- Net income (loss) $(3,479,824) $(5,966,454) $(8,893,946) $(2,377,224) $5,701,787 Net cash flows from: Operating activities (3,451,630) (4,994,411) (5,437,443) (3,527,318) 5,006,936 Investing activities (1,490) 792,539 (978,217) (141,644) 803,220 Financing activities 1,968,096 (133,109) 78,425 2,298,726 4,159,711 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $(1,485,024) $(4,334,981) $(6,337,235) $(1,370,236) $9,969,867 The Company incurred an operating loss for fiscal 2009, as well as operating losses in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006. During fiscal 2007, we had a significant concentration of revenues from our homocysteine assay technology. The main patent for this technology expired in July 2007 and we will not receive revenues for sales made after that date. Revenue in 2008 for the homocysteine technology reflects previously unreported back royalties. We continue to seek revenue from new technologies or products to mitigate the concentration of revenues, and replace revenues from expiring licenses. At current reduced spending levels, the Company may not have sufficient cash flow to fund operating expenses beyond second quarter fiscal 2010. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include adjustments to reflect the possible future effect of the recoverability and classification of assets or amounts and classifications of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Page 10 The Company's continuation as a going concern is dependent upon its developing other recurring revenue streams sufficient to cover operating costs. If necessary, we will meet anticipated operating cash requirements by further reducing costs, and/or pursuing sales of certain assets and technologies while we pursue licensing and distribution opportunities for our remaining portfolio of technologies. The company does not have any significant individual cash or capital requirements in the budget going forward. In addition, we will sell shares to Fusion Capital per our 2009 Agreement, on an as-needed basis, when the Company's stock price is at or above $1.00 per share. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in such efforts or that we will be able to obtain alternative financing should our stock price fall below $1.00 per share. Failure to develop a recurring revenue stream sufficient to cover operating expenses would negatively affect the Company's financial position. Our current recurring revenue stream is insufficient for us to be profitable with our present cost structure. In 2005 we were profitable because of unusually large, upfront license fees related to our homocysteine technology that did not recur in 2009, 2008, 2007 or 2006. To return to and sustain profitability, we must increase recurring revenue by successfully licensing technologies with current and long-term revenue streams, and continue to build our portfolio of innovative technologies. We significantly reduced overhead costs with staff reductions across all company departments, reduced extraneous litigations, and obtained new technologies to build revenue. We will continue to monitor our cost structure, and expect to operate within our generated revenue and cash balances. In July 2008, to improve our financial condition we entered into an equity financing arrangement with Fusion ("Fusion 2008") for up to $5.0 million of cash through sales of our common stock, at our option. We terminated the Fusion 2008 agreement in August 2009, and entered into a new agreement with Fusion ("Fusion 2009") for the sale of up to $8 million of common stock in August 2009. Future revenue, obtaining rights to new technologies, granting licenses, and enforcing intellectual property rights are subject to many factors beyond our control. These include technological changes, economic cycles, and our licensees' ability to successfully commercialize our technologies. Consequently, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to be profitable. Although we cannot be certain that we will be successful in these efforts, we believe the combination of our cash on hand, the ability to raise funds from sales of our common stock under the Fusion 2009 agreement, and revenue from successfully executing our strategy will be sufficient to meet our obligations of current and anticipated operating cash requirements. WE DEPEND ON RELATIONSHIPS WITH INVENTORS TO GAIN ACCESS TO NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND INVENTIONS. IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN EXISTING RELATIONSHIPS OR TO DEVELOP NEW RELATIONSHIPS, WE MAY HAVE FEWER TECHNOLOGIES AND INVENTIONS AVAILABLE TO GENERATE REVENUE. TECHNOLOGY CAN CHANGE RAPIDLY AND INDUSTRY STANDARDS CONTINUALLY EVOLVE, OFTEN MAKING PRODUCTS OBSOLETE, OR RESULTING IN SHORT PRODUCT LIFECYCLES. OUR PROFITABILITY DEPENDS ON OUR LICENSEES' ABILITY TO ADAPT TO SUCH CHANGES. We do not invent new technologies or products. We depend on relationships with universities, corporations, government agencies, research institutions, inventors, and others to provide technology-based opportunities that can develop into profitable licenses, and/or allow us to share in the profits of distribution. Failure to maintain or develop relationships could adversely affect operating results and financial conditions. We are dependent upon our clients' abilities to develop new technologies, introduce new products, and adapt to technology and economic changes. We cannot be certain that current or new relationships will provide the volume or quality of technologies necessary to sustain our business. In some cases, universities and other technology sources may compete against us as they seek to develop and commercialize technologies. Universities may receive financing for basic research in exchange for the exclusive right to commercialize resulting inventions. These and other strategies may reduce the number of technology sources, potential clients, to whom we can market our services. If we are unable to secure new sources of technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. WE RECEIVE MOST OF OUR REVENUE FROM CUSTOMERS OVER WHOM WE HAVE NO CONTROL. We rely on our customers for revenue. Development of new products utilizing our technology involves risk. Many technologies do not become commercially profitable products despite extensive development efforts. Our license agreements do not require customers to advise us of problems they encounter in development of commercial Page 11 products, and usually treat such information as confidential. Their failure to resolve problems may result in a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. STRONG COMPETITION WITHIN OUR INDUSTRY MAY REDUCE OUR CLIENT BASE. We compete with universities, law firms, venture capital firms and other technology commercialization firms. Many organizations offer some aspect of technology transfer services, and are well established with more financial and human resources than we provide. This market is highly fragmented and participants frequently focus on a specific technology area. FROM TIME-TO-TIME WE ARE INVOLVED IN LAWSUITS THAT HISTORICALLY HAVE INVOLVED SIGNIFICANT LEGAL EXPENSES. IF THE COURTS OR REGULATORY AGENCIES IN THESE SUITS OR ACTIONS DECIDE AGAINST US, THIS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. LEGAL FEES AND OTHER COSTS WE INCURRED IN 2009 RELATING TO THE CURRENT CASES WERE SIGNIFICANT, AND THE AMOUNT OF COSTS WE INCUR IN THE FUTURE MAY BE SIGNIFICANT. For a complete description of all lawsuits in which we are currently involved, see ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. OUR REVENUE GROWTH DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO UNDERSTAND THE TECHNOLOGY REQUIREMENTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS IN THE CONTEXT OF THEIR MARKETS. IF WE FAIL TO UNDERSTAND THEIR TECHNOLOGY NEEDS OR MARKETS, WE LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO MEET THOSE NEEDS AND GENERATE REVENUES. By focusing on the technology needs of our customers, we are better positioned to generate revenue by providing technology solutions. The market demands of our customers drive our revenue. The better we understand their markets, the better we are able to identify and obtain effective technology solutions for our customers. We rely on our professional staff and contract business development consultants to understand our customers' technical, commercial, and market requirements and constraints, to identify and obtain effective technology solutions for them. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL. Our success depends on the knowledge, efforts and abilities of a small number of key personnel, including John B. Nano, our Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer. We rely on our professional staff and contract business development consultants to identify intellectual property opportunities and technology solutions, and to negotiate and close license agreements. Competition for personnel with the necessary range and depth of experience is intense. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain highly qualified professionals and consultants, especially with our small number of staff, our revenue, financial condition and future activities could be materially adversely affected. OUR CUSTOMERS, AND WE, DEPEND ON GOVERNMENT APPROVALS TO COMMERCIALLY DEVELOP CERTAIN LICENSED PRODUCTS. Commercial development of some licensed patents may require the approval of foreign or domestic governmental regulatory agencies, especially in the life sciences area, and there is no assurance that those agencies will grant such approvals. In the United States, the principal governmental agency involved is the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"). The FDA's approval process is rigorous, time consuming and costly. Until a licensee obtains approval for a product requiring such approval, the licensee may not sell the product in the U.S., and therefore we will not receive revenue based on U.S. sales. IF WE, AND OUR CLIENTS, ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY UNDERLYING OUR LICENSES, OR TO ENFORCE OUR PATENTS ADEQUATELY, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO DEVELOP SUCH LICENSED PATENTS OR TECHNOLOGIES SUCCESSFULLY. License revenue is subject to the risk that issued patents may be declared invalid, may not be issued upon application, or that competitors may circumvent or infringe our licensed patents rendering them commercially inadequate. When all patents underlying a license expire, our revenue from that license ceases, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace it with revenue from new or existing licenses. Page 12 PATENT LITIGATION HAS INCREASED; IT CAN BE EXPENSIVE, AND MAY DELAY OR PREVENT OUR CUSTOMERS' PRODUCTS FROM ENTERING THE MARKET. Our clients and/or we may pursue patent infringement litigation or interference proceedings against holders of conflicting patents or sellers of competing products that we believe infringe our patent rights. For a description of proceedings in which we are currently involved, see ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. We cannot be certain that our clients and/or we will be successful in any litigation or proceeding. The costs and outcome may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. DEVELOPING NEW PRODUCTS, AND CREATING EFFECTIVE COMMERCIALIZATION STRATEGIES FOR TECHNOLOGIES ARE SUBJECT TO INHERENT RISKS THAT INCLUDE UNANTICIPATED DELAYS, UNRECOVERABLE EXPENSES, TECHNICAL PROBLEM, AND THE POSSIBILITY THAT DEVELOPMENT FUNDS WILL BE INSUFFICIENT. THE OCCURRENCE OF ANY ONE OR MORE OF THESE RISKS COULD CAUSE US TO ABANDON OR SUBSTANTIALLY CHANGE OUR TECHNOLOGY COMMERCIALIZATION STRATEGY. Our success depends upon, among other factors, our clients' ability to develop new or improved technologies, and our customers' products meeting targeted cost and performance objectives for large-scale production, adapting technologies to satisfy industry standards and consumer expectations and needs, and bringing the product to market before saturation. They may encounter unanticipated problems that result in increased costs or substantial delays in the product launch. Products may not be reliable or durable under actual operating conditions, or commercially viable and competitive. They may not meet price or other performance objectives when introduced into the marketplace. Any of these events may adversely affect our realization of revenue from new products. WE HAVE NOT PAID DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since 1981, and, our Board of Directors does not currently have plans to declare or pay cash dividends in the future. The decision to pay dividends is solely at the discretion of our Board of Directors based upon factors that they deem relevant, and may change at any time. IN DEVELOPING NEW PRODUCTS WE ARE AFFECTED BY PATENT LAWS AND REGULATIONS. Patent laws and regulations are continuously reviewed for possible revision. We cannot be certain how we will be affected by revisions. THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY FALL BELOW $1.00 AND WE MAY BE UNABLE TO SELL SHARES TO FUSION OR OBTAIN ALTERNATE EQUITY FINANCING. In early 2009, the global equity markets collapsed and our common stock traded at around $1.00. Per our Fusion 2009 equity financing agreement, Fusion is not required to purchase common stock from us when our stock trades below $1.00. There is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain alternate financing. OUR COMMON STOCK COULD BE DELISTED FROM THE NYSE AMEX MAKING IT DIFFICULT TO TRADE SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. On December 2, 2008, we received notice from the NYSE Amex, then known as NYSE Alternext US LLC (the "Exchange"), notifying us that the staff of the Exchange Corporate Compliance Department had determined that the Company Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2008 did not meet continued listing standards as set forth in Part 10 of the Exchange Company Guide, and the Company has therefore become subject to the procedures and requirements of Section 1009 of the Exchange Company Guide. As noted in Section 1003 of the Exchange Company Guide, companies with stockholders' equity of less than $2 million, and losses from continuing operations and net losses in two out of its three most recent fiscal years, or with stockholders' equity of less than $4 million and losses from continuing operations and net losses in three out of its four most recent fiscal years are non-compliant. Page 13 On December 18, 2008, the company submitted a business plan to the Exchange detailing actions it will take to bring it into compliance with the above continued listing standards by June 2, 2010. On January 22, 2009, the Exchange accepted our business plan. The Company will continue its listing during the plan period up to June 2, 2010, during which time it will be subject to periodic review to determine whether it is making progress consistent with the plan. If the Company is not in compliance with the continued listing standards at the conclusion of the plan period or does not make progress consistent with the plan during the plan period, the Exchange staff will initiate delisting procedures as appropriate. The Company is allowed to appeal a staff determination to initiate delisting proceedings in accordance with Section 1010 and Part 12 of the Exchange Company Guide. The company fully expects to be in compliance with continued listing standards by June 2, 2010, but cannot provide any assurance that it will be. Per the 2009 Agreement with Fusion Capital, should we be delisted from the exchange and unable to obtain listing with another exchange, we will be unable to sell shares to Fusion Capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - ---------------------------------- None. 