Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business and the Market Environment The risk factors described below are not all-inclusive. All risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business, results of operations, and financial position. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements or risk factors. There may be other risks and uncertainties not highlighted herein that may affect our financial condition and business operations. Our exclusive, worldwide rights to sell the Scrambler Therapy technology, marketed as Calmare, which accounted for 94% of our total revenue in 2014, will expire on March 31, 2016 unless action is taken by the Company. The Company acquired the exclusive, worldwide rights to the Scrambler Therapy® technology in 2007. The Company’s original 2007 agreement with Giuseppe Marineo (the "Scrambler Therapy Agreement"), an inventor of Scrambler Therapy technology (“ST”), and Delta Research and Development (“Delta”), authorized CTI to manufacture and sell worldwide the device developed from the patented ST. The original agreement was amended in 2011 to provide the Company with exclusive rights to the ST through March 31, 2016. In July 2012, the Company attempted to negotiate a five-year extension to the agreement with Marineo and Delta (the “2012 Amendment”). However, the Company believes that the 2012 Amendment is neither valid nor enforceable as it was never duly signed or authorized and subsequently deemed null and void. The Scrambler Therapy technology is patented in Italy and the U.S. Additional applications for patents have been filed internationally and are pending approval. The Calmare® device has CE Mark certification from the European Union as well as U.S. FDA 510(k) clearance. Delta International Service & Logistics, an entity related to the entities from whom Calmare Therapeutics received the exclusive worldwide rights to the Scrambler Therapy® technology in 2007, has directly received FDA 510(k) clearance for Scrambler Therapy technology Delta International Service & Logistics (DIS&L) received FDA 510(k) clearance for the Scrambler Therapy technology on May 22, 2015 and is authorized to market the technology effective June 15, 2015. The Company acquired the exclusive, worldwide rights to the Scrambler Therapy technology in 2007 in an agreement with Giuseppe Marineo and Delta Research and Development. The 2007 agreement was amended in 2011 to provide the Company with exclusive rights through March 31, 2016. The Scrambler Therapy technology received FDA 510(k) clearance in 2009. It is currently unclear to the Company why DIS&L sought a separate FDA 510(k) clearance and how this action will impact the Company. This action could negatively affect the Company’s sales of the Calmare medical device through the end of its current agreement (March 31, 2016), negatively affect the Company’s ability to license the technology after the end of its current agreement and negatively affect the Company’s sales of the Calmare medical device subsequent to the end of its current agreement, each of which could have a material impact on our ongoing business. Our current five year contract to sell the Calmare medical device to the U.S. government, which accounted for more than 5% of total revenues in both 2014 and 2013, expired on June 15, 2015 Calmare medical device sales to the U.S. government represented 6% and 22% of total unit sales in 2014 and 2013, respectively, and 5% and 16% of total dollar sales in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our current five year contract with the U.S. government expired on June 15, 2015. We have obtained a short term temporary extension (three months) to our current contract. We are working to obtain a new long term contract, including a five year contract with terms similar to the contract that expired on June 15, 2015. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. In the event that the contract is not renewed, it could have a material impact on our ongoing business. We derived more than 94% of our total revenue in 2014 from one technology. Total revenue consists of revenue from product sales, retained royalties, and other income. We derived approximately $1,045,000, or 90%, of 2014 revenue from sales of our Calmare pain therapy medical device technology. An additional 4% of revenue was derived indirectly from that technology through sales of supplies and training, rental payments and the sale of rental assets. A concentration of revenue makes our operations vulnerable to patent changes or expiration, or to variability in the medical device market, or to the development of new and competing technologies and could have a significant adverse impact on our financial position. In the last five fiscal years, we incurred significant net losses and negative cash flows, and our ability to finance future losses is limited, and may significantly affect existing stockholders. The Company has incurred operating losses since fiscal 2006 and has a working capital and shareholders’ deficiency at December 31, 2014. At current reduced spending levels, the Company may not have sufficient cash flow to fund operations through 2015. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include adjustments to reflect the possible future effect of the recoverability and classification of assets or amounts and classifications of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. The Company's continuation as a going concern is dependent upon its developing other recurring revenue streams sufficient to cover operating costs. If necessary, we will meet anticipated operating cash requirements by further reducing costs, issuing debt or equity, and/or pursuing sales of certain assets and technologies while we pursue licensing and distribution opportunities for our remaining portfolio of technologies. The Company does not have any significant individual capital requirements in the budget going forward. Failure to develop a recurring revenue stream sufficient to cover operating expenses would negatively affect the Company’s financial position. Our current recurring revenue stream is insufficient for us to be profitable with our present cost structure. To return to and sustain profitability, we must increase recurring revenue by successfully licensing technologies with current and long-term revenue streams, and continue to build our portfolio of innovative technologies. We significantly reduced overhead costs with staff reductions across all company departments, reduced extraneous litigations, and obtained new technologies to build revenue. We will continue to monitor our cost structure, and expect to operate within our generated revenue and cash balances. Future revenue, obtaining rights to new technologies, granting licenses, and enforcing intellectual property rights are subject to many factors beyond our control. These include technological changes, economic cycles, and our licensees' ability to successfully commercialize our technologies. Consequently, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to be profitable. Although we cannot be certain that we will be successful in these efforts, we believe the combination of our cash on hand, and revenue from successfully executing our strategy will be sufficient to meet our obligations of current and anticipated operating cash requirements. Page 9 We depend on relationships with inventors to gain access to new technologies and inventions. If we fail to maintain existing relationships or to develop new relationships, we may have fewer technologies and inventions available to generate revenue. Technology can change rapidly and industry standards continually evolve, often making products obsolete, or resulting in short product lifecycles. Our profitability depends on our licensees' ability to adapt to such changes. We do not invent new technologies or products. We depend on relationships with universities, corporations, government agencies, research institutions, inventors, and others to provide technology-based opportunities that can develop into profitable licenses, and/or allow us to share in the profits of distribution. Failure to maintain or develop relationships could adversely affect operating results and financial conditions. We are dependent upon our clients' abilities to develop new technologies, introduce new products, and adapt to technology and economic changes. We cannot be certain that current or new relationships will provide the volume or quality of technologies necessary to sustain our business. In some cases, universities and other technology sources may compete against us as they seek to develop and commercialize technologies. Universities may receive financing for basic research in exchange for the exclusive right to commercialize resulting inventions. These and other strategies may reduce the number of technology sources, potential clients, to whom we can market our services. If we are unable to secure new sources of technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We receive most of our revenue from customers over whom we have no control. We rely on our customers for revenue. Development of new products utilizing our technologies involves risk. Many technologies do not become commercially profitable products despite extensive development efforts. Our license agreements do not require customers to advise us of problems they encounter in development of commercial products, and usually treat such information as confidential. Their failure to resolve problems may result in a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Strong competition within our industry may reduce our client base. We compete with universities, law firms, venture capital firms and other technology commercialization firms. Many organizations offer some aspect of technology transfer services, and are well established with more financial and human resources than we provide. This market is highly fragmented and participants frequently focus on a specific technology area. From time-to-time we are involved in lawsuits, and in particular, patent litigations, that historically have involved significant legal expenses. If the courts or regulatory agencies in these suits or actions decide against us, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our clients and/or we may pursue patent infringement litigation or interference proceedings against holders of conflicting patents or sellers of competing products that we believe infringe our patent rights. We cannot be certain that our clients and/or we will be successful in any litigation or proceeding. The costs and outcome may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. For a complete description of all lawsuits in which we are currently involved, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Our revenue growth depends on our ability to understand the technology requirements of our customers in the context of their markets. If we fail to understand their technology needs or markets, we limit our ability to meet those needs and generate revenues. By focusing on the technology needs of our customers, we are better positioned to generate revenue by providing technology solutions. The market demands of our customers drive our revenue. The better we understand their markets, the better we are able to identify and obtain effective technology solutions for our customers. We rely on our professional staff and contract business development consultants to understand our customers' technical, commercial, and market requirements and constraints, to identify and obtain effective technology solutions for them. Our customers, and we, depend on government approvals to commercially develop certain licensed products. Commercial development of some licensed patents may require the approval of foreign or domestic governmental regulatory agencies, especially in the life sciences area, and there is no assurance that those agencies will grant such approvals. In the United States, the principal governmental agency involved is the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"). The FDA's approval process is rigorous, time consuming and costly. Until a licensee obtains approval for a product requiring such approval, the licensee may not sell the product in the U.S., and therefore we will not receive revenue based on U.S. sales. Page 10 We and our customers depend on government and private insurance reimbursement to develop commercially viable medical products. Successful commercialization of medical products demands appropriate reimbursement rates from government and private medical insurance programs. In the US, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) sets reimbursement rates for medical procedures. Private insurance companies independently develop reimbursement rates for medical procedures as well. There is no assurance that rates will be set on the schedule or at the rates that we and our customers prefer. A lack of sufficient insurance reimbursement may cause customers to delay purchases of a new medical technology, pending the availability of reimbursement. If we, and our clients, are unable to protect the intellectual property underlying our licenses, or to enforce our patents adequately, we may be unable to develop such licensed patents or technologies successfully. License revenue is subject to the risk that issued patents may be declared invalid, may not be issued upon application, or that competitors may circumvent or infringe our licensed patents rendering them commercially inadequate. When all patents underlying a license expire, our revenue from that license ceases, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace it with revenue from new or existing licenses. Developing new products and creating effective commercialization strategies for technologies are subject to inherent risks that include unanticipated delays, unrecoverable expenses, technical problem, and the possibility that development funds will be insufficient. The occurrence of any one or more of these risks could cause us to abandon or substantially change our technology commercialization strategy. Our success depends upon, among other factors, our clients' ability to develop new or improved technologies, and our customers' products meeting targeted cost and performance objectives for large-scale production, adapting technologies to satisfy industry standards and consumer expectations and needs, and bringing the product to market before saturation. They may encounter unanticipated problems that result in increased costs or substantial delays in the product launch. Products may not be reliable or durable under actual operating conditions, or commercially viable and competitive. They may not meet price or other performance objectives when introduced into the marketplace. Any of these events may adversely affect our realization of revenue from new products. In developing new products we are affected by patent laws and regulations. Patent laws and regulations are continuously reviewed for possible revision. We cannot be certain how we will be affected by revisions. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We have not paid dividends on our common stock. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since 1981, and, our Board of Directors does not currently have plans to declare or pay cash dividends in the future. The decision to pay dividends is solely at the discretion of our Board of Directors based upon factors that they deem relevant, and may change at any time. Our shares are listed for trading on the OTC Marketplace, and our shares will likely be classified as a “penny stock” as that term is generally defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to mean equity securities with a price less than $5.00. Our shares will be subject to rules that impose sales practice and disclosure requirements on broker-dealers who engage in certain transactions involving a penny stock. We are subject to the penny stock rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission that require brokers to provide extensive disclosure to its customers prior to executing trades in penny stocks. These disclosure requirements may cause a reduction in the trading activity of our common stock, which in all likelihood would make it difficult for our stockholders to sell their securities. Under the penny stock regulations, a broker-dealer selling a penny stock to anyone other than an established customer or accredited investor must make a special suitability determination regarding the purchaser and must receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale, unless the broker-dealer is otherwise exempt. Generally, an individual with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000, or annual income exceeding $200,000 individually, or $300,000 together with his or her spouse, is considered an accredited investor. In addition, under the penny stock regulations the broker-dealer is required to: · Deliver, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market, unless the broker-dealer or the transaction is otherwise exempt; · Disclose commissions payable to the broker-dealer and our registered representatives and current bid and offer quotations for the securities; · Send monthly statements disclosing recent price information pertaining to the penny stock held in a customer’s account, the account’s value and information regarding the limited market in penny stocks; · Make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction, prior to conducting any penny stock transaction in the customer’s account. Because of these regulations, broker-dealers may encounter difficulties in their attempt to sell shares of our common stock, which may affect the ability of selling stockholders or other holders to sell their shares in the secondary market and have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market. These additional sales practice and disclosure requirements could impede the sale of our securities. In addition, the liquidity for our securities may be decreased, with a corresponding decrease in the price of our securities. Our shares in all probability will be subject to such penny stock rules and our stockholders will, in all likelihood, find it difficult to sell their securities. Page 11 Our common stock is subject to price volatility unrelated to our operations. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting us or our competitors. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock. The sale of a substantial amount of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The OTC Marketplace, is a quotation system, not an issuer listing service, market or exchange. Therefore, buying and selling stock on the OTC Marketplace is not as efficient as buying and selling stock through an exchange. As a result, it may be difficult for you to sell your common stock or you may not be able to sell your common stock for an optimum trading price. The OTC Marketplace is a regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last sale prices and volume limitations in over-the-counter securities. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Pink Marketplace, or OTCPink, which is the lowest trading tier of the OTC Marketplace. Nevertheless, because trades and quotations on the OTCBB involve a manual process, the market information for such securities cannot be guaranteed. In addition, quote information, or even firm quotes, may not be available. The manual execution process may delay order processing and intervening price fluctuations may result in the failure of a limit order to execute or the execution of a market order at a significantly different price. Execution of trades, execution reporting and the delivery of legal trade confirmations may be delayed significantly. Consequently, one may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at the optimum trading prices. When fewer shares of a security are being traded on the OTC Marketplace, volatility of prices may increase and price movement may outpace the ability to deliver accurate quote information. Lower trading volumes in a security may result in a lower likelihood of an individual’s orders being executed, and current prices may differ significantly from the price one was quoted by the OTC Marketplace at the time of the order entry. Orders for OTC Marketplace securities may be canceled or edited like orders for other securities. All requests to change or cancel an order must be submitted to, received and processed by the OTC Marketplace. Due to the manual order processing involved in handling OTC Marketplace trades, order processing and reporting may be delayed, and an individual may not be able to cancel or edit his order. Consequently, one may not be able to sell shares of common stock at the optimum trading prices. The dealer’s spread (the difference between the bid and ask prices) may be large and may result in substantial losses to the seller of securities on the OTC Marketplace if the common stock or other security must be sold immediately. Further, purchasers of securities may incur an immediate “paper” loss due to the price spread. Moreover, dealers trading on the OTC Marketplace may not have a bid price for securities bought and sold through the OTC Marketplace. Due to the foregoing, demand for securities that are traded through the OTC Marketplace may be decreased or eliminated. We anticipate the need to sell additional authorized shares or securities convertible or exchangeable into authorized shares, including convertible debt and warrants, in the future. This will result in a dilution to our existing shareholders and a corresponding reduction in their percentage ownership in the Company. We may seek additional funds through the sale of our common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into authorized shares, including convertible debt and warrants. This will result in a dilution effect to our shareholders whereby their percentage ownership interest in the Company is reduced. The magnitude of this dilution effect will be determined by the number of shares we will have to issue in the future to obtain the funds required. The sale of additional stock to new shareholders will reduce the ownership position of the current shareholders. The price of each share outstanding common share may decrease in the event we sell additional shares. Since our securities are subject to penny stock rules, you may have difficulty reselling your shares. Our shares are “penny stocks” and are covered by Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker/dealers who sell our securities including the delivery of a standardized disclosure document; disclosure and confirmation of quotation prices; disclosure of compensation the broker/dealer receives; and, furnishing monthly account statements. For sales of our securities, the broker/dealer must make a special suitability determination and receive from its customer a written agreement prior to making a sale. The imposition of the foregoing additional sales practices could adversely affect a shareholder's ability to dispose of his stock. Page 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 