Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business Operations We may operate on a negative cash flow basis and may not have sufficient capital resources to satisfy our fixed obligations and fund our operations. We require substantial amounts of cash to fund our loan originations and operations. We have operated on a negative cash flow basis at times during the past several years. We utilize cash proceeds from our securitizations, including NIM transactions, as well as cash generated from our whole-loan sales, to help offset the costs to originate our loans. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to earn a sufficient spread between our cost of funds and our average mortgage rates, or that we will be able to utilize optimal securitization structures (including the sale of NIM notes, Class N Notes or interest-only certificates or bonds), or be able to securitize at all or at terms favorable to us, to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows to offset our current cost structure and cash uses or generate sufficient cash flow from whole-loan sales to offset the cost to originate our loans. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to originate a sufficient number of loans, which could also impact our ability to generate enough cash from securitizations, whole-loan sales and net interest income to offset our costs in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will generate positive cash flow in future periods, or at all, or that we will have sufficient working capital to fund our operations, which includes substantial fixed costs. If we do not have sufficient working capital, we may need to reduce the scope of our operations and may not be able to satisfy our obligations as they become due. We depend primarily on independent mortgage brokers for the origination of our wholesale mortgage loans. Independent mortgage brokers produce the majority of our loan production. These independent mortgage brokers have relationships with multiple lenders and are not obligated by contract or otherwise to do business with us. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, 51.4% and 53.9%, respectively, of our loan originations were originated through approximately 3,200 and 3,000 independent mortgage brokers, respectively. We compete with other lenders for the independent mortgage brokers’ business on the basis of pricing, service, loan fees, costs and other factors. Competition from other lenders could harm the volume and pricing of our wholesale loans, which could reduce our loan production. Intense competition in the non-conforming mortgage loan industry may result in reduced loan production, reduced net income or in revised underwriting standards, which could harm our business. As an originator of mortgage loans, we face intense competition, primarily from diversified consumer financial companies and other diversified financial institutions, mortgage banking companies, commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loans, savings banks, mortgage REITs and other finance companies. Compared to us, many of these competitors are substantially larger than we are, have greater access to capital at a lower cost than we do, have substantially greater resources than we do and have a more established market presence than we have. In addition, we have experienced increased competition over the Internet, where barriers to entry are relatively low. Competition can take many forms, including lower interest rates and costs to the borrower, less stringent underwriting standards, convenience in obtaining a loan, customer service, the amount and term of a loan and more desirable or effective marketing and distribution channels. Furthermore, the entrance of additional competitors into our market could adversely affect the overall execution of our securitizations as well as reduce the gains that we may realize in future whole-loan sales. In addition, efficiencies in the asset-backed securities market have generally created a desire for even larger transactions, giving companies with greater volumes of originations a competitive advantage. If our competitors increase their marketing efforts, we may be forced to expand our marketing efforts, reduce the rates and fees we currently charge or change our underwriting guidelines in order to maintain and expand our market share. Any reduction in our rates or fees, or any change to our underwriting guidelines, could reduce our profitability or the likelihood that our loans will be repaid. Any expansion of our marketing efforts could result in higher costs. 23 We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, other vendors and our employees. At the time we originate mortgage loans, we rely heavily upon information supplied to us by third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal, title information and employment and income documentation. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and we do not detect the misrepresentation prior to funding the loan, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether any misrepresentation or fraudulent act is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees, we may bear the risk of loss. A loan subject to such misrepresentation or fraud is typically unsaleable or subject to repurchase by us if it is sold by us prior to detection of the misrepresentation or fraud. Even though we may have rights against persons and entities who made or knew about the misrepresentation or fraudulent act, these persons and entities are often difficult to locate, making it difficult to collect any monetary losses we may have suffered. We have controls and processes that are designed to help us identify misrepresentations from our borrowers, mortgage brokers, other vendors and our employees. However, we cannot assure you that we have detected or will detect all misrepresentations or fraud in our loan originations. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify investors if we breach representations and warranties in our mortgage loan sales agreements. In connection with the sale and securitization of our loans, we are required to make customary representations and warranties regarding us and the loans. We are subject to these representations and warranties for the life of the loans and they relate to, among other things: · compliance with laws; · regulations and underwriting standards; · the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan files; and · the characteristics and enforceability of the loans. A loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may not be saleable or saleable only at a discount. If the loan is sold before we detect non-compliance with these requirements, we may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss, or we may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against that loss. We believe that we have qualified personnel and have established controls to help ensure that all loans will be originated to the market’s requirements; however, we cannot provide any assurance that we will succeed in doing so. We seek to minimize losses from defective loans by correcting flaws if possible and then securitizing, selling or re-selling these loans. We also create allowances in our financial statements to provide for defective loans. However, we cannot provide any assurance that losses associated with defective loans will not harm our business, or that the allowances in our financial statements will be sufficient to reflect the actual losses that we may incur. Our loan products may require payment adjustments during the term of the mortgage loan that may result in increased payment defaults by borrowers and higher losses to us. Some of our loan products require payment adjustments during the term of the mortgage loan. This can result in payment defaults by borrowers who are unprepared or unable to meet higher payment requirements. In addition, some of our loan products do not amortize evenly and generally enable the borrower to either pay only interest for several years before the loan begins amortizing or pay a reduced principal and interest payment for the first 10 years that the loan is outstanding. These loan products, in addition to possibly having increased payment defaults, also may result in higher losses to us due to higher principal balances outstanding at the time of a borrower default than would be the case for a loan that amortizes evenly throughout its term. 24 We depend on key personnel and the continued ability to attract and retain qualified employees, the loss of which could disrupt our operations and result in reduced revenues. The success of our operations depends on the continued employment of our senior management. If key members of our senior management were unable to perform their duties or were to leave us, we may not be able to find capable replacements, which could disrupt operations and result in reduced revenues. We have entered into employment, change-in control and non-competition agreements with some members of our senior management; however, these individuals may leave us or compete against us in the future. In addition, a court might not enforce the non-competition provisions of these agreements. Even if we retain our current employees, our management must continually recruit talented professionals in order to grow our business. These professionals must have skills in business strategy, marketing, sales, finance and underwriting loans. Moreover, we depend, in large part, upon our wholesale account executives and retail loan analysts to attract borrowers by, among other things, developing relationships with financial institutions, other mortgage companies and brokers, real estate agents, borrowers and others. The market for these skilled professionals is highly competitive and may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. An inability to attract, motivate and retain qualified professionals could disrupt our operations and limit our growth. Any disruption to our Click and Close® system could disrupt our operations, expose us to litigation and require expensive investments in alternative technology. We are highly dependent upon our Click and Close® proprietary software to originate our mortgage loans. Any disruption to this software would substantially curtail our ability to originate new loans. The costs to replace this system may be extremely large. Despite our efforts to maintain Internet security, we may not be able to stop unauthorized attempts to gain access to, or disrupt communications with, our brokers and our customers. Specifically, computer viruses, break-ins and other disruptions could lead to interruptions, delays, and loss of data or the inability to accept and confirm the receipt of information. Any of these events could substantially damage our reputation. We cannot assure you that our current technology or future advances in this technology or other developments will be able to prevent security breaches. We may need to incur significant costs or employ other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Because our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as a borrower’s personal financial information, if a third party were able to steal a customer’s confidential information, we could be subject to claims, litigation or other potential liabilities that could cause our expenses to increase substantially. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation or a significant loss of revenue. An interruption in or breach of our information systems may result in lost business. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. As we implement our growth strategy and increase our volume of loan production, that reliance will increase. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of our information systems or the third party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer loan applications being received, slower processing of applications and reduced efficiency in loan servicing. The success, growth and competitiveness of our business will depend upon our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes. The intense competition in the non-conforming mortgage industry has led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. As mortgage products are offered more widely through alternative distribution channels, such as the Internet, we may be required to make significant changes to our current wholesale and retail structure and information systems to compete effectively. The origination process is becoming more dependent upon technological advancement, such as the ability to process applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures, process status updates instantly and other conveniences that customers may expect. Implementing this new technology and becoming proficient with it may also require significant capital expenditures. Our inability to continue enhancing our current Internet capabilities, or to adapt to other technological changes in the industry, could reduce our ability to compete. 25 Unpredictable delays or difficulties in the development of new loan products or loan programs can harm our business. We and our competitors are continually striving to develop new loan products and programs to gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace. New loan products and programs can have the effect of obtaining more business in the wholesale channel from mortgage brokers and/or in the retail channel directly with consumers, by providing greater flexibility and more alternatives to meeting borrowers’ needs. Any unpredictable delays or difficulties in developing and introducing new loan products or programs can result in the loss of business to competitors. Our use of Insured AVMs in lieu of appraisals could increase our losses. We use Insured AVMs in lieu of appraisals for certain mortgage loan originations (totaling approximately 12% and 11% of our total loan production in 2006 and 2005, respectively). An Insured AVM is the coupling of a third-party valuation estimate and insurance on that value. The third-party AVM providers have created computer programs that use relevant real estate information, such as sales prices, property characteristics and demographics, to calculate a value for a specific property. Public records are the primary data source for an AVM, and the quality of the values that they generate varies depending upon the data they use and their design. AVMs are complex programs incorporating a variety of forecasting techniques, including linear regression, expert systems, neural networks, artificial intelligence and other methodologies. The different methodologies, algorithms and variables used by the third-party AVM providers may vary greatly and affect their reliability and accuracy. One of the weaknesses in using an AVM to value a property is the lack of a physical exterior or interior inspection of the property. To mitigate some of this inherent weakness, we require a property condition report to be completed for each AVM considered for use. A property condition report is a limited physical external inspection of the property. There can be no assurance, however, that these property inspections will uncover all potential issues with a property that a full appraisal might. At the closing of the loan, we purchase insurance that insures the value of the property. In the event the borrower defaults upon their loan, resulting in the liquidation of the property, the insurance company may have to pay a portion of any losses incurred by the securitization trust. There can be no assurance, however, that the securitization trust will be able to collect any insurance in the event of a loss, which would affect the interest income we earn from such trust. If we make any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits, which can harm our business. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may attempt to acquire businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. We currently have no agreements to consummate any acquisitions. If we pursue any transaction, the process of negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired business may result in operating difficulties and expenditures, and may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could increase our expenses, or harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. 26 Differences in our actual experience compared to the assumptions we used to estimate the value of our excess cashflow certificates could result in losses. Our securitization transactions prior to 2004 were structured to be accounted for as sales, which required the use of gain-on-sale accounting. At closing, we estimated the fair value of the excess cashflow certificates we received in the securitization based upon various economic factors, including loan types, balances, interest rates, dates of origination, terms and geographic locations. We also use other available information applicable to the types of loans we originate, such as reports on interest rates, collateral value, economic forecasts and historical default and prepayment rates of the portfolio under review. Realization of the estimated fair value of these excess cashflow certificates is subject to the prepayment and loss characteristics of the underlying loans and to the timing and ultimate realization of the stream of cash flow associated with these loans. Significant prepayment or loss experience would impair the future cash flow of the excess cashflow certificates. If actual experience differs from the assumptions we used to determine the asset values, future cash flow and earnings could be harmed and we could be required to write-down the value of our excess cashflow certificates. Actual results could vary significantly from the projections due to a variety of facts, including changes in interest rates, economic conditions, servicer defaults, loan defaults, prepayments, and delinquency triggers resulting in changes in the level of cash held by the securitization trust to prepay the holders of its asset-backed securities. No assurance can be given that our excess cashflow certificates will not experience significant prepayments or losses or as to whether, and in what amounts, we, in the future, may have to write-down the value of the excess cashflow certificates from our securitization transactions. In addition, if the prevailing interest rates rise, the required discount rate might also rise, resulting in fair value adjustments related to the excess cashflow certificates. If any of our assumptions used to determine the fair value of our stock-based awards change significantly, future share-based compensation expense may differ materially from that recorded currently. In 2006 we adopted SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” which required us to measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation over the service period the awards are expected to vest. The determination of compensation cost requires us to make many assumptions regarding volatility, expected option life and forfeiture rates. In addition, changes in our stock price or prevailing interest rates will also impact the determination of fair value and compensation cost. If any of our assumptions used to determine fair value change significantly, future share-based compensation expense may differ materially from the amounts currently recorded. We are subject to certain risks in connection with the level of our allowance for loan losses. A variety of factors could cause our borrowers to default on their loan payments and the collateral securing such loans to be insufficient to pay any remaining indebtedness. In such an event, we could experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the process of originating a loan, we make various assumptions and judgments about the ability of the borrower to repay it, based on the creditworthiness of the borrower, and the value of the real estate, among other factors. We establish an allowance for loan losses through an assessment of probable losses in our loan portfolio. Several factors are considered in this process, including historical and projected default rates and loss severities. If our assumptions and judgments regarding such matters prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses might not be sufficient, and additional loan loss provisions might need to be made. Depending on the amount of such loan loss provisions, the adverse impact on our earnings could be material. See “Part II. - Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Summary of Critical Accounting Policies - Allowance for Loan Losses on Mortgage Loans Held for Investment” for a discussion of the procedures we follow in establishing our loan loss allowance. Our previous financial statements are not indicative of our future financial results. In March 2004, we began using a securitization structure that we account for as a secured financing, also known as portfolio accounting. Portfolio accounting recognizes the related revenue as net interest income is received over the life of the securitized loans. In contrast, our prior securitization structures required us to record virtually all of the income received upfront as a gain on sale of mortgage loans. We structured all of our 2006, 2005 and 2004 securitizations as secured financings and plan to continue to utilize this structure, and portfolio accounting, for our future securitization transactions. As a result, income that would have otherwise been recognized upfront as gain-on-sale revenue at the time of a securitization is now recognized over the life of the loans. 27 As a result of these changes, our results of operations in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were recorded on a basis that is substantially different from years prior to 2004. We have recorded increased quarterly income during 2006, as compared to the same quarter in 2005. The increasing trend in same quarter over same quarter income we have experienced from the first quarter of 2004 through the fourth quarter of 2006 largely reflects the time it took to build our loan portfolio to a size that generated sufficient net interest income to offset our operating expenses. Accordingly, our financial statements from years prior to 2004, and to a certain extent in 2004 and 2005 when we started building up our loan portfolio, will be of limited use to you in evaluating our performance in future periods. Risks Related to Our Financing Activities We depend on third-party financing sources, which may be unavailable to us in the future. To accumulate loans for securitization or sale, we borrow money on a short-term basis through warehouse credit facilities. We have relied upon a limited number of lenders to provide the primary credit facilities for our loan originations. As of December 31, 2006, we had five warehouse credit facilities for this purpose, each from a different lender. These facilities are due to expire between May 2007 and November 2007. We may not be able to renew or replace these warehouse facilities at their respective maturities, at terms satisfactory to us or at all. Any failure to renew or obtain adequate funding under these warehouse credit facilities or other financing arrangements, or any reduction in the size of, or increase in the cost of, these types of facilities could increase our interest expense or reduce the number of loans that we can originate. If we are not successful in maintaining adequate financing, we would not be able to hold a sufficient volume of loans pending securitization. As a result, we would have to curtail our loan origination activities or sell loans either through whole loan sales or in smaller securitizations, which could render our operations unprofitable. During volatile times in the capital markets, our access to warehouse and other financing has been severely limited. If we are unable to maintain adequate financing and other sources of capital are not available, we would be forced to suspend or curtail our operations. Our warehouse credit facilities contain covenants that restrict our operations and may inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues. Our warehouse credit facilities contain restrictions and covenants that, among other things, require us to satisfy financial, asset quality and loan performance tests. If we fail to satisfy any of these covenants, we would be in default under these agreements and our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements and restrict our ability to make additional borrowings. These agreements also contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements could also declare a default. The covenants and restrictions in our warehouse credit facilities may restrict our ability to, among other things: · finance loans which do not have specified attributes; · reduce our liquidity below minimum levels; and · hold loans for longer than established time periods. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to enter into other financing arrangements or to engage in other business activities, such as selling new types of loan products. Our warehouse financing is subject to margin calls based on our lender’s opinion of the value of our collateral. An unanticipated margin call could harm our liquidity. The amount of financing we receive under our warehouse credit facilities depends in large part on our lenders’ valuation of the mortgage loans securing the financings. Each credit facility provides the lender the right to re-evaluate the loan collateral that secures our outstanding borrowings at any time. If the lender determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, the lender has the right to initiate a margin call. A margin call would require us to provide the lender with additional collateral or to repay a portion of our outstanding borrowings. Any margin call could force us to redeploy our assets in a manner which may not be favorable to us, and if we are not able to satisfy a margin call, could result in the loss of the related line of credit and a default under any other credit facility. 28 Our inability to access the securitization market or realize cash proceeds from securitizations and whole-loan sales in excess of the loan acquisition costs could harm our financial position. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, significantly upon our ability to securitize our mortgage loans - and, to a lesser extent, the premiums we receive on whole-loan sales in excess of the outstanding principal balance of the loans - to generate cash for repayment of our short-term credit and warehouse facilities and to finance mortgage loans for the remainder of each mortgage loan’s life. We may not be successful in securitizing mortgage loans that we accumulate in the future. Our ability to complete securitizations of our loans at favorable prices or at all will depend on a number of factors, including: · conditions in the securities markets generally; · conditions in the asset-backed securities market specifically; · the availability of credit enhancement on acceptable economic terms or at all; and · the performance of our portfolio of securitized loans. Additionally, we may not receive premiums on our future whole-loan sales transactions, and may sell loans at a discount, affecting the amount of cash proceeds we realize. If we are unable to originate loans at a cost lower than the cash proceeds realized from securitizations and loan sales, our ability to operate our business profitably will be impaired. We typically finance borrowers with lower credit ratings relative to those who would otherwise qualify for prime mortgage loans. This strategy may hinder our ability to obtain financing and to continue securitizing loans or selling loans on attractive terms in the future. We market a significant portion of our loans to borrowers who are either unable or unwilling to obtain financing from traditional sources, such as commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loans, savings banks, and government-sponsored entities. This type of borrower is commonly referred to as a sub-prime or non-conforming borrower. Loans made to non-conforming borrowers may entail a higher risk of delinquency and loss than loans made to borrowers who use traditional financing sources. This fact may hinder our ability to obtain financing and to continue securitizing loans or sell loans on attractive terms in the future. A borrower’s delinquency in making timely mortgage loan payment will interrupt the flow of projected interest income from the mortgage loans we hold and can ultimately lead to a borrower’s loan default and a loss to us if the net realizable value of the real property securing the mortgage loan is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the loan. In addition, our cost of financing a delinquent or defaulted loan is generally higher than for a performing loan. We bear the risk of delinquency and default on loans beginning at the time of origination. We continue to bear this risk until we sell these loans and, thereafter, we continue to bear this risk if we sell the loans with a retained interest or if we securitize the loans. We also reacquire the risk of delinquency and default for loans that we are obligated to repurchase in connection with a securitization or a loan sale. Repurchase obligations are typically triggered in loan sale transactions if the first payment due to the buyer following the loan sale is made more than 30 days after it is due or in any sale or securitization if the loan is not in material compliance with the representations and warranties we provided in our sale documents. Higher than anticipated loan delinquencies, including underestimating the extent of losses that our loans may incur, could cause us to incur substantial loan repurchase obligations, limit our ability to sell or securitize additional loans and limit the cash flow from our securitizations. Historically, we have experienced higher rates of delinquency on loans made to these credit-impaired, non-conforming borrowers compared to delinquency rates experienced by other financial companies on loans to borrowers who are not credit impaired. While we use underwriting standards designed to mitigate the higher credit risk associated with lending to these non-conforming borrowers, our standards and procedures may not offer adequate protection against the risk of default. In addition, any deterioration of prevailing economic conditions, such as higher unemployment rates, may further increase the risks inherent in making loans to these types of borrowers. 29 We are exposed to contingent risks and liabilities related to all of the loans we originate and either securitize or sell. We have the following contingent risks with respect to loans that we originate and either securitize or sell: · We retain some degree of credit risk on all loans we originate or purchase during the period of time that we hold loans before securitization or sale. This credit risk includes the risk of borrower default, the risk of foreclosure and the risk that an increase in interest rates would result in a decline in the value of our loans to potential purchasers. · Our securitizations generally require the use of the excess cash flow distributions related to the owner trust certificates to accelerate the amortization of the securities balances relative to the amortization of the mortgage loans held by the trust, up to specified O/C limits. The resulting O/C serves as credit enhancement for the related securitization trust and, therefore, is available to absorb losses realized on loans held by that securitization trust. Generally, the form of credit enhancement agreement entered into in connection with securitization transactions contains limits on the delinquency, default and loss rates on the loans included in each securitization trust. If, at any measuring date, the delinquency, default or loss rate with respect to any trust exceeds the specified delinquency, default and loss rates, excess cash flow from the securitization trust, if any, would be used to fund the increased O/C limit instead of being distributed to us as the holder of the owner trust certificate, which would reduce our cash flow. · When we sell or finance mortgage loans, either through securitization or on a whole-loan basis, we make standard representations and warranties regarding these loans and may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that are not in compliance with any of these representations and warranties. In the past, we also have sold loans and/or pools of loans directly to commercial banks, consumer finance companies and accredited investors. In general, we sold these pools of loans or individual loans with recourse, in which case we are obligated to repurchase any loan upon default and to acquire the related mortgage loan. This obligation is subject to various terms and conditions, including, in some instances, a time limit. At December 31, 2006, we had reserved $81,000 in potential losses against $387,000 in aggregate principal amount of loans sold subject to future repurchase should these loans meet the default provisions. A decline in the quality of servicing could lower the value of our excess cashflow certificates and our ability to sell or securitize loans. In May 2001, we transferred our servicing portfolio to Ocwen Federal Bank FSB, a subsidiary of Ocwen Financial Corporation and a related predecessor entity to Ocwen Loan Servicing, LLC, which presently services our loan portfolio. Poor servicing by Ocwen Loan Servicing, LLC (or its parent or subsidiaries) or any other third-party servicer who services the loans we originate could harm the value of securitized mortgage loans (and our excess cashflow certificates in pre-2004 securitizations) and our ability to sell or securitize loans. Additionally, regulatory actions and class action lawsuits against these servicers could harm the value of our securitized loans (and our excess cashflow certificates in pre-2004 securitizations) and our ability to sell or securitize loans. Ocwen Financial Corporation and several of its affiliates have been named as defendants in a number of purported class action lawsuits that challenge its servicing practices under applicable federal and state laws. In addition, according to its public filings, Ocwen Financial Corporation and its affiliates maintain high levels of indebtedness. Ocwen Financial Corporation is a non-investment grade company and terminated its banking subsidiary’s status as a federal savings bank under supervision of the OTS and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) and has obtained necessary licensing at the state and local level. If Ocwen Financial Corporation's operations are impaired as a result of litigation, governmental investigations, its inability to repay its indebtedness when due, or further degradation of its capitalization or credit rating, our profitability and operations may be harmed. 30 Risks Related to Economic Factors, Market Conditions and Other Factors Beyond Our Control Interest rate fluctuations may reduce our loan origination volume, increase our prepayment, delinquency, default and foreclosure rates, and reduce the value of and income from our loans. One of our primary market risks is interest rate risk. Our profitability may be directly affected by the level of, and fluctuation in, interest rates, which affects our ability to earn a spread between the interest received on our loans and the cost of our borrowings, which are tied to various interest rate swap maturities, commercial paper rates and the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). Our profitability is likely to be harmed during any period of unexpected or rapid changes in interest rates. A substantial and sustained increase in interest rates could harm our ability to originate loans because refinancing an existing loan would be less attractive to the borrower, and qualifying for a loan may be more difficult for the borrower. Risks Associated with Increased Interest Rates. Some of the risks we face relating to an increase in interest rates are: · reduced customer demand for our mortgage loan products; · higher delinquency and default rates on the adjustable-rate mortgage loans that we have originated; · reduced profitability on future securitizations due to wider investor spread requirements or increased O/C requirements for securities issued in securitizations; · increased cost of funds on our warehouse credit financings or other corporate borrowings, which may result in a reduced spread between the rate of interest we receive on loans and the interest rates we must pay under our credit facilities; and · limited access to borrowings in the capital markets. Risks Associated with Lower Interest Rates. A decline in market interest rates generally induces borrowers to refinance their loans, and could reduce our long-term profitability. Because consumers in the United States have recently experienced a prolonged period of low interest rates (predominantly in late 2001 through mid-2004), many borrowers have already refinanced their existing debt, which could reduce the pool of borrowers interested in our mortgage products. Furthermore, a material decline in interest rates could increase the level of loan prepayments, which in turn could decrease the amount of collateral underlying our securitizations, and cause us to earn less income in connection with these loans over time. To the extent excess cashflow certificates have been capitalized on our financial statements (in our securitizations prior to 2004), higher than anticipated rates of loan prepayments or losses could require us to write-down the value of these excess cash flow certificates, and reduce our earnings. Risks Associated with Fluctuating Interest Rates. Periods of unexpected or rapid changes in interest rates, and other volatility or uncertainty regarding interest rates, also can harm us by increasing the likelihood that asset-backed investors will demand higher than normal spreads to offset that volatility or uncertainty. In that event, the net interest spread we can expect to receive from our securitized assets would decrease. Fluctuating interest rates may affect the net interest income we earn, based upon the difference between the yield we receive on loans held pending sales and the interest paid by us for funds borrowed under our warehouse facilities. A change in interest rates would reduce the spread between the average coupon rate on fixed rate loans and the weighted average pass-through rate paid to investors for coupons issued in connection with a securitization. Although the average loan coupon rate is fixed at the time the loan is originated, the pass-through rate to investors in a securitization is not fixed until the pricing of the securitization, which occurs shortly before our sale of the loans to the securitization trust. Therefore, if the market rates required by investors increase prior to securitization of the loans, the spread between the average coupon rate on the loans and the pass-through rate to investors may be reduced or eliminated, which would reduce or eliminate our net interest income from our on-balance sheet loan portfolio. Fluctuating interest rates also may affect the excess cash flows we receive from our excess cashflow certificates. A portion of our asset-backed securities are priced based on one-month LIBOR, but the collateral that backs these securities is comprised of mortgage loans with either fixed interest rates or “hybrid” interest rates — that is, fixed for the initial two or three years of the mortgage loan, and adjusting afterwards every six months thereafter. As a result, the cash flows that we receive from these securitized mortgage loans are dependent upon the interest rate environment. This is because “basis risk” exists between the assets and liabilities of the securitization trusts that we create. For example, the interest costs for that portion of our asset-backed securities that are priced on one-month LIBOR bears interest at a floating rate. As a result, each month the interest rate received by the security holders will adjust upwards or downwards as interest rates change. Therefore, as interest rates rise, the spread we earn on these assets (or the value of our excess cashflow certificates in pre-2004 securitizations) will fall, and as interest rates fall, the spread we earn on these assets (or the value of our excess cashflow certificates in pre-2004 securitizations) will rise. The decrease in the interest rate spread we earn (or the loss in value of our excess cashflow certificates in pre-2004 securitizations) as a result of rising interest rates will reduce our cash flow and harm our profitability. 31 Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. Although we may seek to mitigate or offset our exposure to interest rate risks by using various hedging strategies, including interest rate swaps and/or “corridors” (corresponding purchase and sale of interest rate caps with similar notional balances at different strike prices), these hedging strategies may not be effective and involve risk. There have been periods, and it is likely that there will be periods in the future, during which we will incur losses after accounting for our hedging strategies. The hedging strategies we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. In addition, the nature and timing of our hedging transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction costs and other costs. Our hedging strategies and the derivatives that we may use may not adequately mitigate or offset the risk of interest rate volatility, and our hedging transactions may result in losses. Our business may be harmed by economic difficulties in the eastern United States, where we conduct a significant amount of our business. We lend primarily to borrowers that secure their obligations to us with real property located in the eastern half of the United States. Accordingly, an economic downturn in the eastern half of the United States could negatively impact our ability to meet our origination targets or harm the performance of our existing loan portfolio. An economic slowdown or recession could cause us to experience losses, including increasing delinquencies, decreasing real estate values and increasing foreclosures on our loans. Periods of economic slowdown or recession may be accompanied by decreased demand for consumer credit, declining real estate values and an increased rate of delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and may harm our business. In the mortgage business, any material decline in real estate values reduces the ability of borrowers to use the equity in their homes to support borrowings and increases the LTV ratios of loans we previously made. These factors weaken collateral coverage and increase the possibility of a loss on the loan if a borrower defaults on the loan. Delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on mortgage loans generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. However, delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on mortgage loans also have increased during periods of economic growth. As a result, we cannot assure you that any delinquencies, foreclosures and losses will not increase in the future. Because of our focus on non-conforming credit-impaired borrowers in the home equity loan market, the actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on the loans we hold is likely to be higher under adverse economic conditions than delinquencies, foreclosures and losses currently experienced in the mortgage loan industry in general. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures, losses or increased costs could reduce our ability to sell, and could increase the cost of selling loans through securitization or on a whole loan basis. Any sustained increase in delinquencies, defaults or foreclosures is likely to increase losses and harm the pricing of our future securitizations and whole-loan sales as well as our ability to finance our loan originations. More detailed delinquency information regarding the loans collateralizing each of our securitizations (which comprise our mortgage loans held for investment - securitized portfolio) is available on our website at www.deltafinancial.com/regAB.htm. Geopolitical risks may harm our business. Geopolitical risks, such as terrorist attacks in the United States or other parts of the world, conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions, may harm our business. These types of events could cause, among other things, the delay or cancellation of plans to finance a mortgage with us on the part of our customers or potential customers, or could negatively impact the capital markets and the asset-backed market in particular. Any of these events could cause business and consumer confidence and spending to decrease further, resulting in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and potentially an economic recession in the United States and internationally, which could harm our business. Additionally, the economic impact of the United States’ military operations in Afghanistan, Iraq and other countries, as well as the possibility of any terrorist attacks in response to these operations, is uncertain, but could have a material adverse effect on general economic conditions, consumer confidence and market liquidity. No assurance can be given as to the effect of these events on consumer confidence and the performance of our mortgage loans. United States military operations also may increase the likelihood of shortfalls under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act or similar state laws, which provide for reduced interest payments for members of the armed forces while on active duty. 32 Natural disasters may harm our business, causing us to experience losses, and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures on our loans. Natural disasters may adversely affect the performance of mortgage loans in a variety of ways, including but not limited to, impacting borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans, displacing the homeowners due to severe damage to the properties, and decreasing the value of the mortgaged property, which may result in increased losses to us. Additionally, claims for insurance recoveries may be disputed if insured parties and their insurers disagree in their assessments or type of insurable damage, causing the timing and receipt of insurance payments for damages to be delayed or made at amounts lower than expected, if at all. We may not be able to readily determine the particular nature of such economic effects, how long any of these effects may last, or the impact on the performance of mortgage loans affected by the natural disaster. Risks Related to Laws, Regulations and Legal Actions The scope of our business exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and, in some cases, inconsistent body of complex laws, rules and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. We must comply with the laws, rules and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, in all of the jurisdictions in which we are licensed to originate mortgage loans, as well as an extensive body of federal laws, rules and regulations. Moreover, our lending business is subject to extensive government regulation, supervision and licensing requirements by various state departments of banking or financial services, and the cost of compliance with such regulations may hinder our ability to operate profitably. Also, individual cities and counties have begun to enact laws that restrict non-conforming loan origination activities in those cities and counties. The laws, rules and regulations of each of these jurisdictions are different, complex and, in some cases, in conflict with each other. As our operations grow, and new laws, rules and regulations are added or amended, it may be more difficult to comprehensively identify, accurately interpret, properly program our technology systems and effectively train our personnel with respect to all of these laws, rules and regulations. Our inability to properly manage regulatory compliance could increase our potential exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws, rules and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations may lead to: · civil and criminal liability, including potential monetary penalties; · loss of state licenses or other approved status required for continued lending operations; · legal defenses delaying or otherwise harming the servicers’ ability to enforce loans, or giving the borrower the right to rescind or cancel the loan transaction, or remove the security interest in the property; · demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from purchases of our loans; · difficulty in securitizing or selling our mortgage loans; · our choosing or being forced to severely limit, or even cease our lending activities in a particular area; · class action lawsuits; or · administrative enforcement actions. Any of these results could harm our business. 33 Compliance with a variety of potentially inconsistent federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations has increased our compliance costs, as well as the risk of litigation or administrative action associated with complying with these proposed and enacted federal, state and local laws, particularly those aspects of proposed and enacted laws that contain subjective requirements, with which it may be difficult to ensure compliance. In addition, federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations could impact over-collateralization requirements set by the rating agencies, which could decrease the cash proceeds we may receive from our securitizations. In some cases, rating agencies may refuse to rate securitization transactions that contain loans covered by laws, rules and regulations that they determine create too much risk or uncertainty. If we do not comply with the TILA, aggrieved borrowers could have the right to rescind their loans. TILA and Regulation Z contain disclosure requirements designed to provide consumers with uniform and understandable information regarding the terms and conditions of loans and credit transactions in order that consumers may compare proposed credit terms. TILA also guarantees consumers a three-day right to cancel certain loan transactions and imposes specific loan feature restrictions on some loans, including the type of loans that we originate. If we do not comply with these requirements, in addition to fines and penalties, aggrieved borrowers could have the right to rescind their loans or to demand, among other things, the return of finance charges and fees paid to us at the time of the loan, as well as statutory, actual and other damages. If we do not comply with Regulation X under the RESPA, we could be subject to substantial fines and potential limitations upon future business activities. We also are subject to the RESPA, and Regulation X under RESPA. These laws and regulations, which are administered by HUD, impose limits on the amount of funds a lender can require a borrower to deposit in any escrow account for the payment of taxes, insurance premiums or other charges; limits the types of fees which may be paid to third parties; and imposes various disclosure requirements on the lender. If we do not comply with these requirements, we could be subject to refunding unearned fees, imposition of substantial fines and potential limitations upon future business activities. The increasing number of federal, state and local “anti-predatory” lending laws may restrict our ability to originate, or increase our risk of liability with respect to, some types of mortgage loans and could increase our cost of doing business. In recent years, several federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations have been adopted, or are under consideration for adoption, that are intended to eliminate so-called “predatory” lending practices. These laws, rules and regulations impose restrictions on mortgage loans on which certain points and fees, interest rate, or the annual percentage rate (“APR”) exceed specified amounts. Some of these restrictions expose lenders to risks of litigation and penalties no matter how carefully a loan is underwritten. In addition, an increasing number of these laws, rules and regulations seek to impose liability for violations on purchasers of loans, regardless of whether a purchaser knew of or participated in the violation. It is against our policy to engage in predatory lending practices. We have decided not to originate loans that exceed the interest rate, APR or “points and fees” thresholds of these laws, rules and regulations, because the companies that buy our loans and/or provide financing for our loan origination operations generally do not want to buy or finance those types of loans. The continued enactment of these laws, rules and regulations may prevent us from making these loans and may cause us to reduce the interest rate, APR or the points and fees on loans that we do make. In addition, the difficulty of managing the risks presented by these laws, rules and regulations may decrease the availability of warehouse financing and the overall demand for non-conforming loans, making it difficult to fund, sell or securitize any of our loans. If we decide to originate loans that are subject to these laws, rules and regulations, we will be exposed to greater risks for actual or perceived non-compliance with them. This could lead to demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from our lenders and loan purchasers, class action lawsuits, increased defenses to foreclosure of individual loans in default, individual claims for significant monetary damages and administrative enforcement actions. In any event, the growing number of these laws, rules and regulations will increase our cost of doing business as we are required to develop systems and procedures to ensure that we do not violate any aspect of these requirements. We are no longer able to rely on the Parity Act to preempt certain state law restrictions on prepayment penalties, which could harm our business. The value of a mortgage loan depends, in part, upon the expected period of time that the mortgage loan will be outstanding. If a borrower pays-off a mortgage loan in advance of this expected period, the holder of the mortgage loan does not realize the full value expected to be received from the loan. A prepayment penalty payable by a borrower who repays a loan earlier than expected helps offset the reduction in value resulting from the early pay-off. Consequently, the value of a mortgage loan is enhanced to the extent the loan includes a prepayment penalty, and a mortgage lender can offer a lower interest rate and/or lower loan fees on a loan which has a prepayment penalty. Prepayment penalties are an important feature to obtain value on the loans we originate. 34 Several state laws restrict or prohibit prepayment penalties on mortgage loans, and we have relied on the federal Parity Act and related rules issued in the past by the OTS, to preempt state limitations on prepayment penalties for certain types of loans. The Parity Act was enacted to extend to financial institutions, other than federally chartered depository institutions, the federal preemption that federally chartered depository institutions enjoy. However, in September 2002, the OTS released a new rule that reduced the scope of the Parity Act preemption. As a result, since July 1, 2003, we have no longer been able to rely on the Parity Act to preempt state restrictions on prepayment penalties and have, therefore, been required to comply with state restrictions on prepayment penalties. We believe that these restrictions prohibit us from charging any prepayment penalty in eight states and restrict the amount or duration of prepayment penalties that we may impose in an additional 14 states. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to financial institutions that will continue to enjoy federal preemption of such state restrictions. These institutions will be able to charge prepayment penalties without regard to state restrictions and, as a result, may be able to offer loans with interest rates and loan fee structures that are more attractive than the interest rates and loan fee structures that we are able to offer. In addition, the lack of prepayment penalties on loans could harm our ability to complete securitizations and NIM transactions. We are a defendant in litigation relating to consumer lending practices, including class actions, and we may not prevail in these matters. We are a defendant in several class action lawsuits that are pending in courts in the states of New York and Illinois. These actions allege that we engaged in improper practices in connection with our origination of mortgage loans, including fraud, unjust enrichment, charging improper fees and making firm offers under the fair credit reporting act. These actions generally seek unspecified compensatory damages, statutory damages, punitive damages and the return of allegedly improperly collected fees. It is difficult to predict how these matters will be ultimately determined. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to these actions, and we intend to vigorously defend these actions. However, an adverse judgment in any of these matters could require us to pay substantial amounts. Changes in the mortgage interest deduction could decrease our loan production and harm our business. Members of Congress and government officials have from time to time suggested the elimination of the mortgage interest deduction for federal income tax purposes, either entirely or in part, based on borrower income, type of loan or principal amount. The competitive advantages of tax deductible interest, when compared to alternative sources of financing, could be eliminated or seriously impaired by this change. Accordingly, the reduction or elimination of these tax benefits could reduce the demand for our mortgage loans. The “Do Not Call Registries” administered by federal and state authorities, and other regulations affecting our telemarketing activities could reduce our loan production, increase our costs, or result in claims and/or penalties. To date, a substantial portion of our retail loans have been generated through telemarketing. The federal “Do Not Call Registries,” and similar registries that various state authorities may now or in the future administer, along with Federal and state telemarketing laws, rules and regulations restricting the means, methods and timing of telemarketing, have reduced, and in the future will continue to reduce, our ability to use telemarketing to generate retail leads and originate retail loans. In such an event, we may not be able to offset any loss of business through alternative means, and our ability to effectively market our products and services to new customers may be harmed. Furthermore, compliance with these Do No Call Registries and telemarketing laws, rules and regulations may prove costly and difficult, and we may incur penalties or be subject to claims or lawsuits (including class actions) for improperly conducting our marketing activities. 35 We have been, and in the future may be, subject to various settlement agreements arising from legal issues, and we may be subject to substantial claims and legal expenses if we do not comply with these agreements, or if allegations are made that we are not in compliance with them. The non-conforming mortgage market in which we operate has been the subject of significant scrutiny by various federal and state governmental agencies and legislators. In particular, in 1999, the lending practices we utilized were the subject of investigations by the New York State Banking Department (“NYSBD”), the New York Office of the Attorney General (“NYOAG”) and the Department of Justice (“DOJ”). The investigations centered on our compliance with various federal and state laws. In September 1999 and March 2000, we entered into related settlement agreements with these regulatory agencies, joined by the HUD and the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), which provided for changes to our lending practices on a prospective basis, and retrospective relief to some borrowers. If similar claims are made in the future, defending those claims may result in significant legal expenses to us, which will reduce our profitability. A finding against us, or any settlement we may enter into, may result in our payment of damages, which may be costly to us. We may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of the independent mortgage brokers who place loans with us. The independent mortgage brokers through which we source mortgage loans have legal obligations to which they are subject. These laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders responsible for the legal violations of mortgage brokers, federal and state agencies have increasingly sought to impose liability upon assignees, as well as wholesale lenders. For example, the FTC recently entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender where the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its loan production with a single lender as the “agent” of the lender; the FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as “principal,” the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage broker’s unfair and deceptive acts and practices. Moreover, in the past, the DOJ has sought to hold non-conforming mortgage lenders responsible for the pricing practices of their mortgage brokers, alleging that the mortgage lenders were directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the FHAct even if the lenders neither dictated what the mortgage broker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. This was one of the DOJ’s primary allegations against us at the time of our settlement with the DOJ. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines or other penalties in the future based upon the conduct of our independent mortgage brokers. Regulatory actions and/or class actions against servicers who service the loans we originate could lower the value of our securitized mortgage loans, our excess cashflow certificates and our ability to sell or securitize our loans. Federal agencies, including the FTC, HUD and the DOJ, have recently investigated, and/or commenced regulatory actions against, several servicers who specialize in servicing nonconforming loans. Similarly, numerous class actions have been brought against servicers alleging improper servicing policies and procedures. Any regulatory actions and/or class actions of these kinds brought against any of the servicers who service the loans we originate could harm the value of our excess cashflow certificates and our ability to sell or securitize our loans. Legal actions are pending against us, including class action lawsuits, which if successful, could expose us to substantial liability. Because the nature of our business involves the collection of numerous accounts, the validity of liens and compliance with federal, state and local lending laws, we are subject to numerous claims and legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. Generally, we are subject to claims made against us by borrowers and investors arising from, among other things: · losses that are claimed to have been incurred as a result of alleged breaches of fiduciary obligations, misrepresentation, error and omission by our employees, officers and agents; · incomplete documentation; and · failure to comply with various laws, rules and regulations applicable to our business. An adverse outcome in any potential litigation matters could subject us to significant monetary damages and legal fees, which could harm our business. While it is impossible to estimate with certainty the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to claims and actions, regardless of the merits of a claim and regardless of the outcome, defending against these claims is expensive and time consuming. In addition, these cases could divert management’s attention from our business. 36 We have been named in several lawsuits brought as class actions, alleging violations of various federal and state consumer protection laws, and have entered into settlement agreements with various governmental agencies following investigations of our lending practices. Defending these claims and any claims asserted in the future may result in significant legal expenses. A finding against us could result in the payment of damages, which may be costly. Our inability to comply with REIT qualification tests for our REIT subsidiary may result in our securitization trusts being taxed as a taxable mortgage pool, which would reduce our earnings and cash flow. Our inability to comply with REIT qualification tests for our REIT subsidiary (Renaissance REIT Investment Corp.) on a continuous basis would subject our securitization trusts issued by our REIT subsidiary to federal income tax as a corporation (as a taxable mortgage pool) and not allow it to be filed as part of consolidated income tax return with any other corporation. The REIT rules require compliance with asset, income, distribution and ownership tests. The ownership test prohibits five or fewer stockholders from owning more than 50% of our common stock. As of December 31, 2006, members of the Miller family (considered one stockholder under the attribution rule applicable to the ownership of REIT stock) own approximately 33.6% of the common stock (including employee stock options as required by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and related rules and regulations). There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with these tests or remain compliant. Failure to remain compliant would result in the imposition of a tax upon our securitization trusts and would reduce the cash flow that would otherwise be available to make payments on the offered asset-backed securities and reduce the amount that we would receive from the securitization trusts. Such a failure would cause us to breach our representation, under each of our securitizations issued since the first quarter of 2005, that we would maintain Renaissance REIT Investment Corp. as a real estate investment trust. In addition, it would result in an event of default, unless waived, under our warehouse and certain other credit facilities. Accordingly, a failure to remain compliant with the REIT qualification tests may reduce our profitability and cash flow and have a material adverse impact on us. Complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as other recently-enacted and proposed changes to applicable securities laws, are likely to increase our costs and make it more difficult for us to attract directors, officers and other personnel. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related regulations of the SEC and U.S. stock exchanges, has substantially increased the complexity and cost of corporate governance, financial reporting and disclosure practices for public companies such as ours. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and members of our board of directors, particularly to serve in our finance department and on our audit committee. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure We are controlled by principal stockholders, some of whom are also members of our senior management, who may have the ability to influence fundamental corporate changes if they act in concert. As of March 2, 2007, our principal stockholders, members of the Miller family, beneficially owned approximately 33.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, if members of the Miller family were to act in concert, they would have the ability to exercise significant control over us with respect to matters submitted to a stockholder vote, including the approval of fundamental corporate transactions, such as mergers and acquisitions, consolidations and asset sales, and electing all members of our Board of Directors. As long as the Miller family controls such a substantial percentage of our shares, third parties may not be able to gain control of us through purchases of our common stock. In addition, members of the Miller family hold positions as executive officers of our Company, including Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President and Senior Vice President (General Counsel). 37 Our stock price is volatile. The trading price of our stock is volatile, and this volatility will likely continue in the future. Wide fluctuations in our trading price or volume can be caused by: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · variations in the size and terms of our securitizations; · conditions in the real estate industry and in the asset-backed securities market; · announcements by significant investors of their intention to sell our shares; · investor perception of our Company and the business that we are in generally; · announcements or implementation by us or our competitors of new products or services; · financial estimates by securities analysts; and · general economic and financial services market conditions, including changes in interest rates. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. If investor interest in financial services companies declines, the price for our common stock could drop suddenly and significantly, even if our operating results are positive. Our common stock has historically traded at low volumes, which may increase the potential illiquidity of an investment in our common stock. If the trading volume of our common stock experiences significant changes, the price of our common stock could also be adversely affected. Furthermore, declines in the trading or price of our common stock could harm employee morale and retention, our access to capital and other aspects of our business. Our common stock commenced trading on the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) in May 2003. However, we cannot assure you that an active public trading market for our common stock will be sustained. If active trading in our common stock does not continue, the price that you may receive in connection with any sale of your shares may be substantially less than the price that you paid for them. Our financial results or condition in any period may not meet market expectations, which could adversely affect our stock price. The public trading of our stock is based in large part on market expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we will achieve certain levels of net income. If the securities analysts that follow our stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the market price of our stock is likely to drop significantly. In addition, if our quarterly financial performance does not meet the expectations of securities analysts, our stock price would likely decline. The decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. We may need additional capital, which may be dilutive to our stockholders or impose burdensome financial restrictions on our business. We may seek to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity offerings. Additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock. If we obtain funds through a bank credit facility or by issuing debt securities or preferred shares, the indebtedness or preferred shares would have rights senior to the rights of holders of our common stock, and their terms could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we need to raise additional funds, we may not be able to do so on favorable terms, or at all. If we cannot obtain adequate funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to implement our business strategy as planned, or at all. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect our stock price. Future sales of shares of our common stock or the availability for future sale of shares of our common stock may reduce the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. 38 Our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock, which they are able to sell in the public market today. Sales of these shares or the perception that these sales could occur, could harm the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 1.8 million shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of options, approximately 1.3 million of which were currently exercisable, and 203,775 shares of restricted common stock granted and outstanding. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions which could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: · establishing a classified Board of Directors of which approximately one-third of the members of the board are elected each year, and lengthening the time needed to elect a new majority of the board; · authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares or change the balance of voting control and thwart a takeover attempt; and · prohibiting stockholder action by written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders. We also are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Subject to specified exceptions, this section provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company. These factors could also limit the price that investors or an acquirer might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 