Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that have an adverse impact on the aerospace industry may adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. A substantial percentage of our gross profit and operating income was derived from commercial aviation for fiscal year 2009. Our operations are focused on designing, engineering and manufacturing aircraft components for new aircraft, selling spare parts and performing repair and overhaul services on existing aircraft and aircraft components. Therefore, our business is directly affected by economic factors and other trends that affect our customers in the aerospace industry, including a possible decrease in outsourcing by OEMs and aircraft operators or projected market growth that may not materialize or be sustainable. We are also significantly dependent on sales to the commercial aerospace market, which has been cyclical in nature with significant downturns in the past. When these economic and other factors adversely affect the aerospace industry, they tend to reduce the overall customer demand for our products and services, which decreases our operating income. Economic and other factors that might affect the aerospace industry may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and liquidity. The financial condition of our airline customers is a concern and thereby introduces credit risk with some of our significant airline customers, as well as introducing negative implications for their ability to fund the acquisition of new aircraft for their fleet. In addition, last year's dramatic rise in energy costs significantly increased the price of fuel to the airlines resulting in additional pressure on operating costs. These or other events may lead to further declines in the worldwide aerospace industry that could further adversely affect our business and financial condition. Cancellations, reductions or delays in customer orders may adversely affect our results of operations. Our overall operating results are affected by many factors, including the timing of orders from large customers and the timing of expenditures to manufacture parts and purchase inventory in anticipation of future sales of products and services. A large portion of our operating expenses are relatively fixed. Because several of our operating locations typically do not obtain long-term purchase orders or commitments from our customers, they must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements. These historic patterns may be disrupted by many factors, including changing economic conditions, inventory adjustments, or work stoppages or labor disruptions at our customers. Cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by a customer or group of customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisition strategy exposes us to risks, including the risk that we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses. We have a consistent strategy to grow, in part, by the acquisition of additional businesses in the aerospace industry and are continuously evaluating various acquisition opportunities, including those outside the United States and those that are larger than the acquisitions we have made previously. However, we do not have any definitive agreements at this time to acquire additional businesses. Our ability to grow by acquisition is dependent upon, among other factors, the availability of suitable acquisition candidates. Growth by acquisition involves risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of 17 Table of Contents acquired companies, the potential amortization of acquired intangible assets, the potential impairment of goodwill and the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms or, if any acquisitions are consummated, satisfactorily integrate these acquired businesses. A significant decline in business with a key customer could have a material adverse effect on us. For the year ended March 31, 2009, The Boeing Company, or Boeing Commercial, Military & Space, represented approximately 23% of net sales. Accordingly, a significant reduction in purchases by this customer could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, some of our operating locations have significant customers, the loss of whom could have an adverse effect on those businesses. Demand for our military and defense products is dependent upon government spending. Approximately 36% of our sales for fiscal year 2009 were derived from the military and defense market, which includes primarily indirect sales to the U.S. Government. The military and defense market is largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget, and even an increase in defense spending may not be allocated to programs that would benefit our business. Moreover, the new military aircraft programs in which we participate may not enter full-scale production as expected. A change in the levels of defense spending or levels of military flight operations could curtail or enhance our prospects in this market depending upon the programs affected. Our expansion into international markets may increase credit, currency and other risks. As we pursue customers in Asia, South America and other less developed aerospace markets throughout the world, our inability to ensure the creditworthiness of our customers in these areas could adversely impact our overall profitability. In addition, with the acquisition of operations in the U.K., Germany, and Mexico, along with our existing Thailand facility and as we pursue customers in other parts of the world, we will be subject to the legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of other jurisdictions. In the future, we may also make additional international capital investments, including further acquisitions of companies outside the United States or companies having operations outside the United States. Risks inherent to international operations include, but are not limited to, the following: •difficulty in enforcing agreements in some legal systems outside the United States; •countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls; •fluctuations in exchange rates may affect demand for our products and services and may adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars; •inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; •changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate; •unexpected adverse changes in the laws or regulatory requirements outside the U.S., including those with respect to environmental protection, export duties and quotas; •difficulty with staffing and managing widespread operations; and •difficulty of and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the countries in which we operate. We may need additional financing for acquisitions and capital expenditures and additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us. A key element of our strategy has been, and continues to be, internal growth supplemented by growth through the acquisition of additional companies and 18 Table of Contents product lines engaged in the aerospace industry. In order to grow internally, we may need to make significant capital expenditures, such as investing in facilities in low cost countries, and may need additional capital to do so. Our ability to grow is dependent upon, and may be limited by, among other things, availability under our credit facility and by particular restrictions contained in our credit facility and our other financing arrangements. In that case, additional funding sources may be needed, and we may not be able to obtain the additional capital necessary to pursue our internal growth and acquisition strategy or, if we can obtain additional financing, the additional financing may not be on financial terms that are satisfactory to us, particularly in light of the current instability in the credit markets. Competitive pressures may adversely affect us. We have numerous competitors in the aerospace industry. We compete primarily with the top-tier systems integrators and the manufacturers that supply them, some of which are divisions or subsidiaries of OEMs and other large companies that manufacture aircraft components and subassemblies. Competition for the repair and overhaul of aviation components comes from three primary sources: OEMs, major commercial airlines and other independent repair and overhaul companies. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. Competitive pressures may materially adversely affect our operating revenues and margins, and, in turn, our business and financial condition. We may need to expend significant capital to keep pace with technological developments in our industry. The aerospace industry is constantly undergoing development and change and it is likely that new products, equipment and methods of repair and overhaul service will be introduced in the future. In order to keep pace with any new developments, we may need to expend significant capital to purchase new equipment and machines or to train our employees in the new methods of production and service. We may incur significant expenses to comply with new or more stringent governmental regulation. The aerospace industry is highly regulated in the United States by the FAA and in other countries by similar agencies. We must be certified by the FAA and, in some cases, by individual OEMs in order to engineer and service parts and components used in specific aircraft models. If any of our material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our operations would be adversely affected. New or more stringent governmental regulations may be adopted, or industry oversight heightened in the future, and we may incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or any heightened industry oversight. Some contractual arrangements with our customers may cause us to bear significant up-front costs that we may not be able to recover. Many new aircraft programs require that major suppliers bear the cost of design, development and engineering work associated with the development of the aircraft usually in exchange for a long-term agreement to supply critical parts once the aircraft is in production. Boeing's 787 and Airbus' A350 are examples of two new aircraft programs in which we are competing in a product development process in order to obtain eventual long term production agreements. If the aircraft fails to reach the full production stage or we fail to win the long-term contract, the outlays we have made in research and development and other start-up costs may not produce the anticipated return on investment. We may not realize our anticipated return on capital commitments made to expand our capabilities. We continually make significant capital expenditures to implement new processes and to increase both efficiency and capacity. Some of these projects require additional training for our employees and not all projects may be implemented as anticipated. If any of these projects do not achieve the anticipated increase in efficiency or capacity, our returns on these capital expenditures may not be as expected. Any product liability claims in excess of insurance may adversely affect our financial condition. Our operations expose us to potential liability for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that has been serviced by us or the failure of an aircraft component designed or 19 Table of Contents manufactured by us. While we believe that our liability insurance is adequate to protect us from these liabilities, our insurance may not cover all liabilities. Additionally, insurance coverage may not be available in the future at a cost acceptable to us. Any material liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The lack of available skilled personnel may have an adverse effect on our operations. From time to time, some of our operating locations have experienced difficulties in attracting and retaining skilled personnel to design, engineer, manufacture, repair and overhaul sophisticated aircraft components. Our ability to operate successfully could be jeopardized if we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel to conduct our business. Any exposure to environmental liabilities may adversely affect us. Our business, operations and facilities are subject to numerous stringent federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. Although management believes that our operations and facilities are in material compliance with such laws and regulations, future changes in such laws, regulations or interpretations thereof or the nature of our operations or regulatory enforcement actions which may arise, may require us to make significant additional capital expenditures to ensure compliance in the future. Certain of our facilities, including facilities acquired and operated by us or one of our subsidiaries have at one time or another been under active investigation for environmental contamination by federal or state agencies when acquired and, at least in some cases, continue to be under investigation or subject to remediation for potential environmental contamination. Individual facilities of ours have also been subject to investigation on occasion for possible past waste disposal practices which might have contributed to contamination at or from remote waste disposal sites. We are frequently indemnified by prior owners or operators and/or present owners of the facilities for liabilities which we incur as a result of these investigations and the environmental contamination found which pre-dates our acquisition of these facilities, subject to certain limitations, including but not limited to limitations on the survival period of the indemnity. We also maintain a pollution liability policy that provides coverage for material liabilities associated with the clean-up of on-site pollution conditions, as well as defense and indemnity for certain third party suits (including Superfund liabilities at third party sites), in each case, to the extent not otherwise indemnified. This policy applies to all of our manufacturing and assembly operations worldwide. However, if we were required to pay the expenses related to environmental liabilities for which neither indemnification nor insurance coverage is available, these expenses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We are currently involved in intellectual property litigation, which could have a material and adverse impact on our profitability, and we could become so involved again in the future. We and other companies in our industry possess certain proprietary rights relating to designs, engineering, manufacturing processes and repair and overhaul procedures. In the event that we believe that a third party is infringing upon our proprietary rights, we may bring an action to enforce such rights. In addition, third parties may claim infringement by us with respect to their proprietary rights and may initiate legal proceedings against us in the future. The expense and time of bringing an action to enforce such rights or defending against infringement claims can be significant, as in the case of the litigation arising out of the claims of Eaton Corporation discussed in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." The expense and time associated with such litigation may have a material and adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, in our overhaul and repair businesses, OEMs of equipment that we maintain for our customers increasingly include language in repair manuals relating to their equipment asserting broad claims of proprietary rights to the contents of the manuals used in our operations. Although we believe that our use of manufacture and repair manuals is lawful, there can be no assurance that OEMs will not try to enforce such claims, including through the possible use of legal proceedings, or that any such actions will be unsuccessful. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 