Risk Factors” and in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” -23- ITEM 1A. 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a number of substantial risks. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and they should be considered in connection with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors should be read together with the other items in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” Currency exchange rate fluctuations could lower our revenue and net income. In 2007, we recognized approximately 86% of our revenue in markets outside of the United States in each market’s respective local currency. We purchase inventory primarily in the United States in U.S. dollars. In preparing our financial statements, we translate revenue and expenses in foreign countries from their local currencies into U.S. dollars using weighted-average exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, particularly the Japanese yen inasmuch as we generated approximately 38% of our 2007 revenue in Japan, our reported revenue, gross profit and net income will likely be reduced. During the last couple of years, we experienced an overall weakening of the Japanese yen, which has harmed our results. Although the yen has subsequently strengthened considerably over the last few months, given the global, complex political and economic dynamics that affect exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot estimate future fluctuations and the effect these fluctuations may have upon future reported results or our overall financial condition. In the event the Japanese yen or other foreign currencies weaken, our results in 2008 would be negatively impacted. Although we attempt to reduce our exposure to short-term exchange rate fluctuations by using foreign currency exchange rate contracts for the Japanese yen and the use of yen denominated debt, we cannot be certain these contracts or any other hedging activity will effectively reduce exchange rate exposure. Because our Japanese operations account for a significant part of our business, continued weakness in our business operations in Japan would harm our business. Approximately 38% of our 2007 revenue was generated in Japan. We have experienced declines in our business in this market during the past few years, and it appears many of our direct selling competitors have seen their businesses in this market contract over the last few years. We believe our operating results have been negatively impacted by a variety of factors, including, lack of distributor activity, the unanticipated impact of compensation plan changes, regulatory issues, and production difficulties. Our financial results would be harmed and our business could continue to decline if our products, business opportunity, or planned growth initiatives do not retain and generate continued interest and enthusiasm among our distributors and consumers in this market. In addition, there appears to be increased governmental scrutiny of our industry including a recent regulatory action against a prominent company that has received considerable publicity. As a result of these factors, this market continues to be a challenging market. We have implemented several initiatives, including the launch of new products and changes to our compensation plan, and have other initiatives planned to help renew growth in this market. If these and other planned initiatives are delayed, or do not generate distributor excitement or attract new distributors or customers in Japan, or if industry conditions do not improve, or we experience adverse publicity as a result of the actions of our distributors, it may limit our prospects for renewed growth in this market and harm our financial results. -24- If we are unable to retain our existing independent distributors and recruit additional distributors, our revenue will not increase and may even decline. We distribute almost all of our products through our independent distributors (and China sales representatives) and we depend on them to generate virtually all of our revenue. Our distributors may terminate their services at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience high turnover among distributors from year to year. Distributors who join to purchase our products for personal consumption or for short-term income goals frequently only stay with us for a short time. Executive distributors who have committed time and effort to build a sales organization will generally stay for longer periods. Distributors have highly variable levels of training, skills and capabilities. As a result, in order to maintain sales and increase sales in the future, we need to continue to retain existing distributors and recruit additional distributors. To increase our revenue, we must increase the number of and/or the productivity of our distributors. We have experienced periodic declines in both active distributors and executive distributors in the past. The number of our active and executive distributors may not increase and could decline again in the future. While we take many steps to help train, motivate, and retain distributors, we cannot accurately predict how the number and productivity of distributors may fluctuate because we rely primarily upon our distributor leaders to recruit, train, and motivate new distributors. Our operating results could be harmed if we and our distributor leaders do not generate sufficient interest in our business to retain existing distributors and attract new distributors. The number and productivity of our distributors also depends on several additional factors, including: • any adverse publicity regarding us, our products, our distribution channel, or our competitors; • a lack of interest in, or the technical failure of, existing or new products; • lack of a sponsoring story that generates interest for potential new distributors and effectively draws them into the business; • the public's perception of our products and their ingredients; • the public's perception of our distributors and direct selling businesses in general; • our actions to enforce our policies and procedures; • any regulatory actions or charges against us or others in our industry; • general economic and business conditions; and • potential saturation or maturity levels in a given country or market which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain distributors in such market. Our operating results could be adversely affected if our existing and new business opportunities and incentives, products, business tools and other initiatives do not generate sufficient enthusiasm and economic incentive to retain our existing distributors or to sponsor new distributors on a sustained basis. In addition, in our mature markets, one of the challenges we face is keeping distributor leaders with established businesses and high income levels motivated and actively engaged in business building activities and developing new distributor leaders. There can be no assurance that our initiatives such as the Scanner and Galvanic Spa System II will generate excitement among our distributors in the long-term or that planned initiatives will be successful in maintaining distributor activity and productivity or in motivating distributor leaders to remain engaged in business building and developing new distributor leaders. In addition, some initiatives may have unanticipated negative impacts on our markets, particularly changes to our compensation plan. The introduction of a new product or key initiative such as the Scanner and g3 can also negatively impact other product lines to the extent our distributor leaders focus their efforts on the new product or initiative. -25- Although our distributors are independent contractors, improper distributor actions that violate laws or regulations could harm our business. Distributor activities in our existing markets that violate governmental laws or regulations could result in governmental actions against us in markets where we operate, which would harm our business. Except in China, our distributors are not employees and act independently of us. We implement strict policies and procedures to ensure our distributors will comply with legal requirements. However, given the size of our distributor force, we experience problems with distributors from time to time. For example, product claims made by some of our distributors in 1990 and 1991 led to an investigation by the FTC in the United States, which resulted in our entering into a consent decree with the FTC. In addition, recent rulings by the Korean FTC and by judicial authorities against us and other companies in Korea indicate that vicarious liability may be imposed on us for the criminal activity of our independent distributors. During the past year we have experienced an increase in complaints to consumer protection agencies in Japan related to distributor activities. As a result, we have performed additional training for distributors in this market to try to resolve these issues and restructured our compliance operations to provide enhanced education and training as well as rules compliance. We have also been in contact with several consumer centers about resolving some distributor inappropriate behavior issues. If consumer complaints escalate to a government review or if the level of complaints further increases or does not improve, regulators in Japan could take action against us or negative media could occur, either of which could harm our business. Government inquiries, investigations, and actions could harm our business. There has been an increase in governmental scrutiny of our industry in various markets, including Japan, China, Europe, and the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom, an action has been brought against an industry leader by regulators alleging that the company and its distributor were engaged in activities that violated the anti-pyramid laws. In Japan, one of the larger direct selling companies in that market was recently required to suspend sponsoring activities for three months. We understand that regulators in Japan are increasingly focusing on companies in our industry. Any adverse results in these cases could spur further reviews and actions with respect to others in the industry. From time to time, we receive formal and informal inquiries from various government regulatory authorities about our business and our compliance with local laws and regulations. Any determination that we or our distributors are not in compliance with existing laws or regulations could potentially harm our business. Even if governmental actions do not result in rulings or orders, they potentially could create negative publicity which could detrimentally affect our efforts to recruit or motivate distributors and attract customers and, consequently, reduce revenue and net income. In the early 1990s, we entered into voluntary consent agreements with the FTC and a few state regulatory agencies relating to investigations of our distributors’ product claims and practices. These investigations centered on alleged unsubstantiated product and earnings claims made by some of our distributors. We believe that the negative publicity generated by this FTC action, as well as a subsequent action in the mid-1990s related to unsubstantiated product claims, harmed our business and results of operation in the United States. Pursuant to the consent decrees, we agreed, among other things, to supplement our procedures to enforce our policies, to not allow distributors to make earnings representations without making additional disclosures relating to average earnings and to not make, or allow our distributors to make, product claims that were not substantiated. We have taken various actions, including implementing a more generous inventory buy-back policy, publishing average distributor earnings information, supplementing our procedures for enforcing our policies, and reviewing distributor product sales aids, to address the issues raised by the FTC and state agencies in these investigations. As a result of the previous investigations, the FTC makes inquiries from time to time regarding our compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our consent decree. Any further actions by the FTC or other comparable state or federal regulatory agencies, in the United States or abroad, could have a further negative impact on us in the future. -26- Challenges by private parties to the form of our network marketing system could harm our business. We may be subject to challenges by private parties, including our distributors, to the form of our network marketing system or elements of our business. For example, class action lawsuits have recently been brought against some of our competitors that include allegations that the businesses involve unlawful pyramid schemes. In addition, there have been allegations made by a consumer protection activist regarding the business models of a couple of our competitors in the network marketing industry. There can be no assurance that similar actions or allegations will not be brought against us, which could harm our business. In addition, adverse rulings in one of these cases could negatively impact our business if it creates adverse publicity or interprets current regulatory requirements in a manner that is inconsistent with our current business practices. In the United States, the network marketing industry and regulatory authorities have generally relied on the implementation of distributor rules and policies designed to promote retail sales to protect consumers and to prevent inappropriate activities and to distinguish between legitimate network marketing distribution plans and unlawful pyramid schemes. We have adopted rules and policies based on case law, rulings of the FTC, discussions with regulatory authorities in several states and domestic and global industry standards. Legal and regulatory requirements concerning network marketing systems, however, involve a high level of subjectivity, are inherently fact-based and are subject to judicial interpretation. Because of the foregoing, we can provide no assurance that we would not be harmed by the application or interpretation of statutes or regulations governing network marketing, particularly in any civil challenge by a current or former distributor. Governmental regulations relating to the marketing and advertising of our products and services, in particular our nutritional supplements, may restrict or inhibit our ability to sell these products. Our products and our related marketing and advertising efforts are subject to extensive governmental regulations by numerous domestic and foreign governmental agencies and authorities. These include the FDA, the FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Department of Agriculture in the United States, State Attorneys General and other state regulatory agencies and the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan along with similar governmental agencies in other foreign markets where we operate. Our markets have varied regulations concerning product formulation, labeling, packaging and importation. These laws and regulations often require us to, among other things: • reformulate products for a specific market to meet the specific product formulation laws of that country; • conform product labeling to the regulations in each country; and -27- • register or qualify products with the applicable governmental authority or obtain necessary approvals or file necessary notifications for the marketing of our products. Restrictions on our ability to introduce products, or delays in introducing products, could reduce revenue and decrease profitability. Regulators also may prohibit us from making therapeutic claims about products, regardless of the existence of research and independent studies that may support such claims. These product claim restrictions could prevent us from realizing the potential revenue from some of our products. Increased regulatory scrutiny of nutritional supplements as well as new regulations that are being adopted in some of our markets with respect to nutritional supplements could result in more restrictive and burdensome regulations and harm our results. There has been an increasing movement in the United States and other markets to increase the regulation of dietary supplements, which could impose additional restrictions or requirements in the future. In several of our markets, including Europe, South Korea and Hong Kong, new regulations have been adopted or are likely to be adopted in the near-term that could impose new requirements, make changes in some classifications of supplements under the regulations, or limit the levels of ingredients we can include and claims we can make. In addition, there has been increased regulatory scrutiny of nutritional supplements and marketing claims under existing and new regulations. In Europe for example, we are unable to market supplements that contain ingredients that have not been previously marketed in Europe (“novel foods”) without going through an extensive registration and approval process. We recently had our g3 product taken off the market in Denmark because the authorities in Denmark disagreed with our position that the product was not a “novel food.” We also recently had to stop selling Cholestin in the Netherlands and IGG Boost in Denmark based on adverse determinations by regulators in these markets. Europe is also expected to adopt additional regulations this fall setting new limits on acceptable maximum levels of vitamins and minerals. In addition, the FDA recently finalized new GMPs and AERs for the nutritional supplement industry requiring good manufacturing processes for us and our vendors and reporting of serious adverse events associated with use of our products. Our operations could be harmed if new regulations require us to reformulate products or effect new registrations, if regulatory authorities make determinations that any of our products do not comply with applicable manufacturing and regulatory requirements, or if we are not able to effect necessary changes to our products in a timely and efficient manner in order to respond or comply to new regulations. In addition, our operations could be harmed if governmental laws or regulations are enacted that restrict the ability of companies to market or distribute nutritional supplements or impose additional burdens or requirements on nutritional supplement companies. Our operations in China are subject to significant governmental scrutiny and may be harmed by the results of such scrutiny. Because of the government’s significant concerns about direct selling activities, government regulators in China scrutinize very closely activities of direct selling companies or activities that resemble direct selling. The regulatory environment in China with regards to direct selling is evolving, and officials in multiple national and local levels in the Chinese government often exercise significant discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply applicable regulations. In the past, the government has taken significant actions against companies that the government found were engaging in direct selling activities in violation of applicable law, including shutting down their businesses and imposing substantial fines. -28- Our business in China has been subject to significant governmental scrutiny, and reviews and investigations by government regulators have at times impeded our ability to conduct business and have resulted in several cases in fines being paid by us, which in the aggregate have been less than 1% of our revenue in China. We continue to be subject to current governmental reviews and investigations, and we may incur similar or more severe sanctions in the future. Occasionally, we have also been asked to cease sales activity in some stores while the regulators review our operations. While, in each of these cases, we have been allowed to recommence operations after the government’s review without material changes to our operations, there is no assurance that this will always be the case. Even though we have now obtained approval to conduct direct selling in Shanghai and Beijing, government regulators continue to scrutinize our activities and the activities of our distributors and sales employees to monitor our compliance with the new regulations and other applicable regulations as we implement direct selling into our business model. At times, complaints made by our sales representatives to the government have resulted in increased scrutiny by the government. Any determination that our operations or activities, or the activities of our employed sales representatives or distributors, are not in compliance with applicable regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, extended interruptions of business, termination of necessary licenses and permits, including our direct selling approvals, or restrictions on our ability to open new stores or obtain approvals for service centers or expand into new locations, or other actions, all of which would harm our business. If recently adopted direct selling regulations in China are interpreted or enforced by governmental authorities in a manner that negatively impacts our retail business model or our dual business model there, our business in China could be harmed. Chinese regulators have adopted anti-pyramiding and new direct selling regulations that contain significant restrictions and limitations, including a restriction on multi-level compensation for independent distributors selling away from a fixed location. The regulations also impose various requirements on individuals before they can become direct sellers, including the passage of an examination, which are more burdensome than in our other markets and which could negatively impact the willingness of some people to sign up to become direct sellers. These new regulations are not yet well understood, and there continues to be some confusion and uncertainty as to the meaning of the new regulations and their scope, and the specific types of restrictions and requirements imposed under them. It is difficult to predict how regulators will interpret and enforce these new regulations and the impact of these new regulations on pending regulatory reviews and investigations. Our business and our growth prospects would be harmed if Chinese regulators interpret the anti-pyramiding regulations or direct selling regulations as applying to our retail store/employed sales representative business model, or if regulations are interpreted in such a manner that our current method of conducting business through the use of employed sales representatives or our implementation of direct selling that is currently underway is found to violate applicable regulations. In particular, our business would be harmed by any determination that our current method of compensating our sales employees, including our use of the sales productivity of a sales employee and the group of sales employees whom he or she trains and supervises as one of the factors in establishing such sales employee’s salary and compensation, violates the restriction on multi-level compensation in the new regulations. Our business could also be harmed if regulators inhibit our ability to concurrently operate our retail store/employed sales representative business model and our direct selling business. -29- Although we have obtained approval to conduct direct selling in China, our current governmental approval only allows us to do so in Shanghai and Beijing. If we are unable to obtain additional necessary national and local governmental approvals as quickly as we would like, our ability to expand our direct selling business and grow our business there could be negatively impacted. We have completed the required national and local licensing process and commenced direct selling activities in Beijing and Shanghai. In order to expand our direct selling model into additional provinces, we currently must obtain a series of approvals from district, city, provincial and national governmental agencies with respect to each province in which we wish to expand. The approval process includes a requirement that we establish “service centers” that serve primarily as product return locations. If regulators fail to permit us to build service centers at a rate that meets our growth demands, this could limit our ability to obtain direct selling approvals in accordance with anticipated timelines. Because direct selling was only recently authorized in China, the process for obtaining the necessary governmental approvals to conduct direct selling continues to evolve. As we are being required to work with such a large number of provincial, city, district and national governmental authorities, we have found that it is taking more time than anticipated to work through the approval process with these authorities. These authorities have broad discretion in interpreting the regulations and granting necessary approvals. Different governmental authorities have interpreted the regulations and processes in some circumstances differently. A delay in obtaining approvals at one level can delay our ability to obtain approvals at the next level. In addition, we have received some indications from the national government authorities that they intend to review and monitor the operations of an approved direct selling company during an evaluation period before granting approvals to such company to expand into additional provinces as regulators continue to closely monitor the development of direct selling in China. The complexity of the approval process as well as the government’s continued cautious approach as direct selling develops in China makes it difficult to predict the timeline for obtaining these approvals. If the results of the government’s evaluation of our direct selling activities in Shanghai results in further delays in obtaining licenses elsewhere, or if the current processes for obtaining approvals are delayed further for any reason or are changed or are interpreted differently than currently understood, our ability to expand direct selling in China and our growth prospects in this market could be negatively impacted. Implementing a compensation plan and business model for our independent distributors in China that is different from other markets could harm our ability to grow our business in China. The direct selling regulations in China impose various limitations and requirements, including a prohibition on multi-level compensation and a requirement that all distributors pass a required examination before becoming a distributor. The regulations also impose other restrictions on direct selling activities that differ from the regulations in our other markets. As a result, we are implementing a direct selling compensation plan and business model for the direct sales component of our business that differs from the model we use in other markets. There can be no assurance that these restrictions will not negatively impact our ability to provide an attractive business opportunity to distributors in this market and limit our ability to grow our business in this market. In addition, the regulations do not allow the sale of general foods through a direct selling business model. Because some of our supplements, including LifePak, are being marketed as general foods until we obtain health food status for these products, we will only be able to sell these products at our stores and not away from the stores until they receive health food status, which could have a negative impact on our direct selling business. Intellectual property rights are difficult to enforce in China. Chinese commercial law is relatively undeveloped compared to most of our other major markets, and, as a result, we may have limited legal recourse in the event we encounter significant difficulties with patent or trademark infringers. Limited protection of intellectual property is available under Chinese law, and the local manufacturing of our products may subject us to an increased risk that unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our product formulations. As a result, we cannot assure that we will be able to adequately protect our product formulations. -30- If one of our tools is determined to be a medical device in a particular geographic market or if our distributors use it for medical purposes, our ability to continue to market and distribute such tool could be harmed. One of our strategies is to market unique tools that allow our distributors to distinguish our products, including the Scanner, the Galavanic Spa System II, and the ProDerm Skin Analyzer. We do not believe the products are medical devices and do not market them as medical devices. In March 2003, the FDA questioned the status of the Scanner as a non-medical device. We subsequently filed an application with the FDA to have it classified as a non-medical device. The FDA has not yet acted on our application. There are various factors that could determine whether a product is a medical device including the claims that we or our distributors make about it. We have faced similar uncertainties and regulatory issues in other markets with respect to the status of one or more of our tools as a non-medical device and the claims that can be made in using it. For example, during the past couple of years we have faced regulatory inquiries in Japan, Korea, Singapore and Thailand regarding distributor claims with respect to the Scanner. We are not able to market the Galvanic Spa System II in Taiwan due to regulatory restrictions. There have also been recent legislative proposals in Singapore and Malaysia relating to the regulation of medical devices which could have an impact on our tools. A determination in any of these markets that any of our tools are medical devices or that distributors are using it to make medical claims or perform medical diagnoses or other activities limited to licensed professionals could negatively impact our ability to use these tools in a market. Regulatory scrutiny of a tool could also dampen distributor enthusiasm and hinder the ability of distributors to effectively utilize such tool. In the event medical device clearance is required in any market, obtaining clearance could require us to provide documentation concerning its clinical utility and to make some modifications to its design, specifications and manufacturing process in order to meet stringent standards imposed on medical device companies. There can be no assurance we would be able to provide such documentation and make such changes promptly or in a manner that is satisfactory to regulatory authorities. Changes to our compensation arrangements with our distributors could be viewed negatively by some distributors and could harm our operating results if such changes impact distributor productivity. We have implemented a global compensation plan that has some components that differ from market to market. We modify components of our compensation plan from time to time in an attempt to keep our compensation plan competitive and attractive to existing and potential distributors, to address changing market dynamics, to provide incentives to distributors that we believe will help grow our business, and to address other business needs. Because of the size of our distributor force and the complexity of our compensation plans, it is difficult to predict whether such changes will achieve their desired results. For example, in 2005, we made changes to our compensation plan in Japan that had been successful in other markets, but did not have the impact in Japan that we anticipated and negatively impacted our business. China and certain markets in Southeast Asia similarly were negatively impacted by compensation plan changes in 2005. We are currently planning on implementing various changes to our compensation plan throughout many of our markets in 2008. In addition, because of the size and complexity of our sales force and compensation plan, growth in certain markets and changes to our plans have caused compensation rates in these markets to rise higher than historical levels, which could reduce our operating income. Although management’s objective is to maximize the benefit of compensation plan expenses, compensation plan changes may be made in the future in these markets with higher compensation rates in order to maintain overall payout as close to historical levels as possible. In addition, we will need to make changes to our compensation plan in South Korea as our average pay-out is beginning to rise above the maximum level allowed by law. We cannot be certain that the modifications we are making in South Korea or any other modifications we make to our compensation plans in our other markets will be well received or achieve their desired results. If our distributors fail to adapt to these changes or find them unattractive, our business could be harmed. -31- If we are unable to successfully expand and grow operations within our recently opened and developing markets, we may have difficulty achieving our long-term objectives. A significant percentage of our revenue growth over the past decade has been attributable to our expansion into new markets. Our growth over the next several years depends in part on our ability to successfully introduce products and tools, and to successfully implement initiatives in our new and developing markets, including China, Russia, Latin America and Eastern Europe that will help generate growth. In addition to the regulatory difficulties we may face in introducing our products, tools, and initiatives in these markets, we could face difficulties in achieving acceptance of our premium-priced products in developing markets. In the past, we have struggled to operate successfully in developing markets, such as Latin America. This may also be the case in Eastern Europe and the other new markets into which we have recently expanded. If we are unable to successfully expand our operations within these new markets, our opportunities to grow our business may be limited, and, as a result, we may not be able to achieve our long-term objectives. Global political issues and conflicts could harm our business. Because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States, our business is subject to global political issues and conflicts, including terrorism threats, tensions related to North Korea, political tensions between the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan, and other issues. If these conflicts or issues escalate, or if there is increased anti-American sentiment, this could harm our foreign operations. In addition, changes and actions by governments in foreign markets, in particular those markets such as China where capitalism and free market trading is still evolving, could harm our business. Adverse publicity concerning our business, marketing plan or products could harm our business and reputation. The size of our distribution force and the results of our operations can be particularly impacted by adverse publicity regarding us, the nature of our distributor network, our products or the actions of our distributors. Specifically, we are susceptible to adverse publicity concerning: • suspicions about the legality and ethics of network marketing; • the ingredients or safety of our or our competitors' products; • regulatory investigations of us, our competitors and our respective products; • the actions of our current or former distributors; and • public perceptions of direct selling businesses generally. In addition, in the past we have experienced negative publicity that has harmed our business in connection with regulatory investigations and inquiries. We may receive negative publicity in the future, and it may harm our business and reputation. -32- Inability of new products to gain distributor and market acceptance could harm our business. A critical component of our business is our ability to develop new products that create enthusiasm among our distributor force. If we are unable to introduce new products our distributor productivity could be harmed. In addition, if any new products fail to gain market acceptance, are restricted by regulatory requirements or have quality problems, this would harm our results of operations. Factors that could affect our ability to continue to introduce new products include, among others, government regulations, the inability to attract and retain qualified research and development staff, the termination of third-party research and collaborative arrangements, proprietary protections of competitors that may limit our ability to offer comparable products and the difficulties in anticipating changes in consumer tastes and buying preferences. The loss of key high-level distributors could negatively impact our distributor growth and our revenue. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 755,000 active independent distributors, sales representatives and preferred customers, including approximately 30,000 executive level distributors or full-time sales representatives. Approximately 480 distributors occupied the highest distributor level under our global compensation plan as of that date. These distributors, together with their extensive networks of downline distributors, account for substantially all of our revenue. As a result, the loss of a high-level distributor or a group of leading distributors in the distributor’s network of downline distributors, whether by their own choice or through disciplinary actions by us for violations of our policies and procedures, could negatively impact our distributor growth and our revenue. Laws and regulations may prohibit or severely restrict our direct sales efforts and cause our revenue and profitability to decline, and regulators could adopt new regulations that harm our business. Various government agencies throughout the world regulate direct sales practices. These laws and regulations are generally intended to prevent fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as “pyramid” schemes, that compensate participants for recruiting additional participants irrespective of product sales, use high pressure recruiting methods and/or do not involve legitimate products. The laws and regulations in our current markets often: • impose order cancellations, product returns, inventory buy-backs and cooling-off rights for consumers and distributors; • require us or our distributors to register with governmental agencies; • impose caps on the amount of commissions we can pay; • impose reporting requirements to regulatory agencies; and/or • require us to ensure that distributors are not being compensated based upon the recruitment of new distributors. Complying with these widely varying and sometimes inconsistent rules and regulations can be difficult and require the devotion of significant resources on our part. If we are unable to continue business in existing markets or commence operations in new markets because of these laws, our revenue and profitability will decline. Countries where we currently do business could change their laws or regulations to negatively affect or completely prohibit direct sales efforts. -33- In addition, government agencies and courts in the countries where we operate may use their powers and discretion in interpreting and applying laws in a manner that limits our ability to operate or otherwise harms our business or adopt new laws or regulations that could impose additional restrictions. For example, the FTC in the United States has recently proposed new regulations, which would impose additional restrictive and burdensome disclosure requirements and a seven-day waiting period before a person could sign up to become a distributor. The direct selling industry association has filed comments objecting to many of these requirements and is working to get the FTC to change its proposal for new regulations. If these regulations were adopted in their current form, it could have a negative impact on direct selling businesses in the United States including our business. If any governmental authority were to bring a regulatory enforcement action against us that interrupts our business, revenue and earnings would likely suffer. Increases in duties on our imported products in our markets outside of the United States or adverse results of tax audits in our various markets could reduce our revenue, negatively impact our operating results and harm our competitive position. Historically, we have imported most of our products into the countries in which they are ultimately sold. These countries impose various legal restrictions on imports and typically impose duties on our products. We are subject from time to time to reviews and audits by the foreign taxing authorities of the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business throughout the world. These audits sometimes result in challenges by such taxing authorities as to our methodologies used in determining our income tax, duties, customs, and other amounts owed in connection with the importation and distribution of our products. Currently, customs audits are underway in a number of our markets. We have been assessed by the Japan customs authorities approximately $25 million for additional duties on products imported into Japan, and we are currently contesting this assessment. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company is operating under a new structure in Japan and we are in the process of negotiating a new advanced pricing agreement with the income tax authorities in Japan related to our transfer pricing for products being imported into Japan. In connection with these negotiations, they have requested that we explain our position in the custom’s appeal and the difference in our treatment of the transaction for customs purposes compared to our income tax treatment under the prior structures. In the event the income tax authorities disagree with our position or explanation, there is a risk that they could attempt to challenge our income tax position, which could negatively impact our ability to successfully prosecute our custom’s appeal or result in additional income tax assessments. Governmental authorities may question our intercompany transfer pricing policies or change their laws in a manner that could increase our effective tax rate or otherwise harm our business. As a U.S. company doing business in international markets through subsidiaries, we are subject to foreign tax and intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between our company and our subsidiaries. Regulators in the United States and in foreign markets closely monitor our corporate structure and how we effect intercompany fund transfers. If regulators challenge our corporate structure, transfer pricing mechanisms or intercompany transfers, our operations may be harmed, and our effective tax rate may increase. Tax rates vary from country to country, and, if regulators determine that our profits in one jurisdiction may need to be increased, we may not be able to fully utilize all foreign tax credits that are generated, which will increase our effective tax rate. For example, our corporate income tax rate in the United States is 35%. If our profitability in a higher tax jurisdiction, such as Japan where the corporate tax rate is currently set at 46%, increases disproportionately to the rest of our business, our effective tax rate may increase. The various customs, exchange control and transfer pricing laws are continually changing and are subject to the interpretation of governmental agencies. Despite our efforts to be aware of and comply with such laws and changes to and interpretations thereof, there is a risk that we may not continue to operate in compliance with such laws. We may need to adjust our operating procedures in response to such changes, and as a result, our business may suffer. -34- The loss of suppliers or shortages in ingredients could harm our business. We acquire ingredients and products from two suppliers that each currently manufacture a significant portion of our Nu Skin personal care products. In addition, we currently rely on two suppliers for a majority of Pharmanex nutritional supplement products. In the event we were to lose any of these suppliers and experience any difficulties in finding or transitioning to alternative suppliers, this could harm our business. In addition, we obtain some of our products from sole suppliers that own or control the product formulations or ingredients. We also license the right to distribute some of our products from third parties. In the event we are unable to renew these contracts, we may need to discontinue some products or develop substitute products, which could harm our revenue. In addition, if we experience supply shortages or regulatory impediments with respect to the raw materials and ingredients we use in our products, we may need to seek alternative supplies or suppliers. Some of our nutritional products, including our recently introduced g3 juice, incorporate natural products that are only harvested once a year and may have limited supplies. If demand exceeds forecasts, we may have difficulties in obtaining additional supplies to meet the excess demand until the next growing season. If we are unable to successfully respond to such issues, our business could be harmed. Production difficulties and quality control problems could harm our business. Occasionally, we, or our suppliers have experienced production difficulties with respect to our products, including the delivery of products that do not meet our quality control standards. These quality problems have resulted in the past, and could result in the future, in stock outages or shortages in our markets with respect to products, harming our sales and creating inventory write-offs for unusable product. In addition, these issues can negatively impact distributor confidence as well as potentially invite additional governmental scrutiny in our various markets. We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of the services provided by any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management, many of whom would be difficult to replace. These employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. We may not be able to successfully retain existing personnel or identify, hire and integrate new personnel. We do not carry key person insurance for any of our personnel. Although we have signed offer letters or written agreements summarizing the compensation terms for some of our senior executives, we have generally not entered into formal employment agreements with our executive officers. If we lose the services of our executive officers or key employees for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Our markets are intensely competitive, and market conditions and the strengths of competitors may harm our business. The markets for our products are intensely competitive. Our results of operations may be harmed by market conditions and competition in the future. Many competitors have much greater name recognition and financial resources than we have, which may give them a competitive advantage. For example, our Nu Skin products compete directly with branded, premium retail products. We also compete with other direct selling organizations. The leading direct selling companies in our existing markets are Avon and Alticor (Amway). We currently do not have significant patent or other proprietary protection, and our competitors may introduce products with the same ingredients that we use in our products. Because of regulatory restrictions concerning claims about the efficacy of dietary supplements, we may have difficulty differentiating our products from our competitors’ products, and competing products entering the nutritional market could harm our nutritional supplement revenue. -35- We also compete with other network marketing companies for distributors. Some of these competitors have a longer operating history and greater visibility, name recognition and financial resources than we do. Some of our competitors have also adopted and could continue to adopt some of our successful business strategies, including our global compensation plan for distributors. Consequently, to successfully compete in this market and attract and retain distributors, we must ensure that our business opportunities and compensation plans are financially rewarding. We have over 20 years of experience in this industry and believe we have significant competitive advantages, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete in every endeavor in this market. Product liability claims could harm our business. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by our products. Although we have had a very limited number and relatively low financial exposure from product claims to date, we have experienced difficulty in finding insurers that are willing to provide product liability coverage at reasonable rates due to insurance industry trends and the rising cost of insurance generally. As a result, we have elected to self-insure our product liability risks for our product lines. Until we elect and are able to obtain product liability insurance, if any of our products are found to cause any injury or damage, we will be subject to the full amount of liability associated with any injuries or damages. This liability could be substantial. We cannot predict if and when product liability insurance will be available to us on reasonable terms. System failures could harm our business. Because of our diverse geographic operations and our complex distributor compensation plan, our business is highly dependent on efficiently functioning information technology systems. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, earthquakes, telecommunications failures and other events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. We have adopted and implemented a Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery Plan. Our primary data sets are archived and stored at third-party secure sites, but we have not contracted for a third-party recovery site. Despite any precautions, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems could result in interruptions in services and reduce our revenue and profits. There is a risk that a SARS like epidemic could negatively impact our business, particularly in those Asian markets most affected by such epidemics in recent years. Our revenue was negatively impacted in 2003 by the SARS epidemic that hit Asia during that year. It is difficult to predict the impact on our business, if any, of a recurrence of SARS, or the emergence of new epidemics. Although such events could generate increased sales of health/immune supplements and certain personal care products, our direct selling and retail activities and results of operations could be harmed if the fear of the Avian Flu, SARS or other communicable diseases that spread rapidly in densely populated areas causes people to avoid public places and interaction with one another. -36- The market price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations due to a number of factors that are beyond our control. Our common stock closed at $17.53 per share on March 31, 2006 and closed at $16.31 per share on February 15, 2008. During this two-year period, our common stock traded as low as $13.40 per share and as high as $19.71 per share. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Some of these factors include: • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • the sale of shares of Class A common stock by our original or significant stockholders; • general trends in the market for our products; • acquisitions by us or our competitors; • economic and/or currency exchange issues in those foreign countries in which we operate; • changes in estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; and • general business and political conditions. Broad market fluctuations could also lower the market price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. As of February 15, 2008, our original stockholders, together with their family members, estate planning entities and affiliates, controlled approximately 33% of the combined stockholder voting power, and their interests may be different from yours. The original stockholders of our company, together with their family members and affiliates, have the ability to influence the election and removal of the board of directors and, as a result, future direction and operations of our company. As of February 15, 2008, these stockholders owned approximately 33% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, they may influence decisions concerning business opportunities, declaring dividends, issuing additional shares of common stock or other securities and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. They may make decisions that are adverse to your interests. If our stockholders sell a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. Several of our principal stockholders hold a large number of shares of the outstanding common stock. Any decision by any of our principal stockholders to aggressively sell their shares could depress the market price of our common stock. As of February 15, 2008, we had approximately 63.4 million shares of common stock outstanding. All of these shares are freely tradable, except for approximately 19 million shares held by certain stockholders who participated in our October 2003 recapitalization transaction wherein we repurchased approximately 10.8 million of our shares from our original stockholders and their affiliates and facilitated the resale of approximately 6.2 million additional shares to a group of private equity investors. Under the terms of our repurchase these stockholders agreed that, after the expiration of a two-year lock-up agreement in October 2005, they would be subject to certain volume limitations with respect to open market transactions. In the event these lock-up restrictions were removed, the resulting sales could cause the price of our common stock to decline. -37- ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 