Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY AND OUR BUSINESS THE REPORT OF OUR INDEPENDENT AUDITORS ON OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTAINS AN EXPLANATORY PARAGRAPH ON OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. The report of our independent auditors contains an explanatory paragraph raising substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern because of our history of operating losses and limited capital resources. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We have taken steps to reduce our costs and increase sales of our professional products. Although we completed financings in October 2006 and January 2007 raising approximately $6,028,000 of aggregate gross proceeds, if we are not successful in improving our operating results in the near term we may need to raise additional capital to finance our operations and sustain our business model. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, any financing we obtain in the future may result in dilution to our existing stockholders. WE CONTINUE TO EXPERIENCE OPERATING LOSSES AND MAY INCUR ADDITIONAL OPERATING LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. We incurred a net loss of approximately $16.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as well as net losses of approximately $13.0 million and $7.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our net losses have primarily resulted from increased administrative, accounting, finance and legal costs following our February 2004 merger, write-downs of both retail and professional channel inventory, returns of retail products previously sold by us, and write downs of goodwill and other assets associated with our Rapor products. Our 2006 loss included a $4.5 million non-cash charge from a beneficial conversion feature from a convertible note. We will not be profitable in the future unless we increase sales of our products and reduce our costs. Although we are taking steps to reduce our costs and increase sales of our products and have discontinued sales of retail products to focus on our higher margin professional products, there can be no assurance that we will be profitable in the future. WE HAVE DISCONTINUED SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS IN THE RETAIL CHANNEL, WHICH PREVIOUSLY CONSTITUTED A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR SALES. Historically, sales of our products in the Retail Channel have accounted for a large portion of our revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, 25%, 46% and 56% of our revenues, including revenues from discontinued operations, were from sales in the Retail Channel. However, over the last three quarters of 2005, we had nominal sales of our products in the Retail Channel. Among other reasons, the decline in sales of our retail products resulted from the replacement of our products by the major national retailer that accounted for substantially all of our Retail Channel sales, with those manufactured by a competitor. In addition, our exclusive agreement to distribute Samsung products in the Retail Channel to this retailer expired on December 31, 2005. As a result, in the first quarter of 2006 our board of directors approved the discontinuance of our sales to the Retail Channel so that we can focus our efforts on sales to the Professional Channel. 6 A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR BUSINESS HAS BEEN ATTRIBUTABLE TO A SINGLE SUPPLIER. Historically, Samsung Electronics has been our primary supplier for the security products that we distribute. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, 67%, 50% and 68%, respectively, of our revenues (excluding revenues from discontinued operations) were attributable to products manufactured by Samsung, whose products we sold under an exclusive distribution agreement. Our exclusive agreement to distribute Samsung products in the Retail Channel to a major national retailer expired on December 31, 2005, and Samsung terminated the remaining portion of its agreement with us in January 2006. Samsung was entitled to terminate the distribution agreement because we did not purchase the minimum amounts required to be purchased thereunder during the 2005 calendar year. Following the termination of our agreement with Samsung, our Board of Directors approved the discontinuation of sales to the Retail Channel. On October 2, 2006, we entered into a new Distributorship Agreement with Samsung under which we have been granted the right to distribute Samsung’s complete line of professional video surveillance and security products in the “territory” comprising North, Central and South America through December 31, 2010. Pursuant to the Distributorship Agreement, Samsung has agreed to a limited non-compete in the territory. Although we consider our relationship with Samsung to be good, in the event we fail to purchase the minimum amount of products required under the Distribution Agreement or breach any other provision of the agreement, Samsung can again terminate its agreement with us and sell products to our competitors. Further, if Samsung fails to perform its obligations under the Distribution Agreement or we are unable to renew our agreement with Samsung, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. SAMSUNG SUBJECTS US TO CREDIT LIMITS, WHICH CAN LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO PURCHASE THEIR PRODUCTS AND SELL THOSE PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS. Samsung sets credit limits with respect to amounts owed by us to Samsung for products purchased by us from Samsung. To the extent the amount we owe Samsung at a given time exceeds these limits, Samsung will not ship to us additional products unless we pay for those products in cash or provide Samsung with a letter of credit. During the third quarter of 2006, Samsung suspended shipment of products to us as a result of a reduction in our credit limit, causing us to maintain lower levels of inventory during the remainder of the year, negatively impacting our sales during the third and fourth quarter of 2006. In conjunction with our new agreement with Samsung that we entered into on October 2, 2006, and our payment of $3 million for past-due amounts, Samsung resumed shipments to us. However, in the future, if we exceed Samsung’s credit limits and have insufficient cash to purchase products from Samsung, we may be unable to meet the demands of our customers and our business and relationships with our customers may be materially adversely affected. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RESPOND TO THE RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES IN OUR INDUSTRY AND CHANGES IN OUR CUSTOMERS' REQUIREMENTS AND PREFERENCES, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED. If we are unable, for technological, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements, we could lose customers and market share. The electronic security systems industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Sudden changes in customer requirements and preferences, the frequent introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing products, services and systems obsolete. The emerging nature of products and services in the electronic security systems industry and their rapid evolution will require that we continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability: · to enhance our existing products and services; · to anticipate changing customer requirements by designing, developing, and launching new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our current and prospective customers; and · to respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. 7 The development of additional products and services involves significant technological and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead time. If we fail to introduce products with new technologies in a timely manner, or adapt our products to these new technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that even if we are able to introduce new products or adapt our products to new technologies that our products will gain acceptance among our customers. In addition, from time to time, we or our competitors may announce new products, product enhancements or technological innovations that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of our products and that may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products, resulting in inventory obsolescence. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN OR IMPROVE OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION BECAUSE OF STRONG COMPETITION IN THE ELECTRONIC SECURITY SYSTEMS INDUSTRY, AND WE EXPECT THIS COMPETITION TO CONTINUE TO INTENSIFY. The electronic security systems industry is highly competitive and has become more so over the last several years as security issues and concerns have become a primary consideration at both government and private facilities worldwide. Competition is intense among a wide range and fragmented group of product and service providers, including electronic security equipment manufacturers, distributors, providers of integrated security systems, systems integrators, consulting firms and engineering and design firms and others that provide competitive systems or individual elements of a system. Some of our competitors are larger than us and possess significantly greater name recognition, assets, personnel, sales and financial resources. These entities may be able to respond more quickly to changing market conditions by developing new products and services that meet customer requirements or are otherwise superior to our products and services and may be able to more effectively market their products than we can because they have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Increased competition could require us to reduce our prices, result in our receiving fewer customers orders, and result in our loss of market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to distinguish ourselves in a competitive market. To the extent that we are unable to successfully compete against existing and future competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. WE DEPEND ON OUR MANUFACTURERS, SOME OF WHICH ARE OUR SOLE SOURCE FOR SPECIFIC PRODUCTS. OUR BUSINESS AND REPUTATION WOULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED IF THESE MANUFACTURERS FAIL TO SUPPLY US WITH THE PRODUCTS WE REQUIRE AND ALTERNATIVE SOURCES ARE NOT AVAILABLE. We have relationships with a number of manufacturers for the supply of our products. Our success depends in part on whether our manufacturers are able to fill the orders we place with them and in a timely manner. If any of our manufacturers fail to satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations or fill purchase orders we place with them, we may be required to pursue replacement manufacturer relationships. If we are unable to find replacements on a timely basis, or at all, we may be forced to either temporarily or permanently discontinue the sale of certain products and associated services, which could expose us to legal liability, loss of reputation and risk of loss or reduced profit. Although we continually evaluate our relationships with our manufacturers and plan for contingencies if a problem should arise with a manufacturer, finding new manufacturers that offer a similar type of product would be a complicated and time consuming process and we cannot assure you that if we ever need to find a new manufacturer for certain of our products we would be able to do so on a completely seamless basis, or at all. Our business, results of operation and reputation would be adversely impacted if we are unable to provide our products to our customers in a timely manner. WE HAVE SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS TO LAURUS MASTER FUND SECURED BY SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR ASSETS. IF AN EVENT OF DEFAULT OCCURS UNDER THE SECURED NOTES ISSUED TO LAURUS, LAURUS MAY FORECLOSE ON OUR ASSETS AND WE MAY BE FORCED TO CURTAIL OUR OPERATIONS OR SELL SOME OR ALL OF OUR ASSETS TO REPAY THE NOTES. On May 27, 2004, we borrowed $15,000,000 from Laurus pursuant to secured promissory notes and related agreements. Our indebtedness to Laurus as of December 31, 2006 was approximately $8.3 million. The notes and agreements provide for the following events of default (among others): 8 · failure to pay interest and principal when due, · an uncured breach by us of any material covenant, term or condition in any of the notes or related agreements, · a breach by us of any material representation or warranty made in any of the notes or in any related agreement, · any money judgment or similar final process is filed against us for more than $250,000, and · any form of bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding is instituted by or against us, and · our Common Stock is suspended from our principal trading market for five consecutive days or five days during any ten consecutive days. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our agreements with Laurus, Laurus may enforce its rights as a secured party and we may lose all or a portion of our assets, be forced to materially reduce our business activities or cease operations. In addition, our obligations to Laurus become due on December 31, 2007. We will not be able to repay our obligations to Laurus at maturity unless we receive replacement financing or extend our current financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS IN PART ON ATTRACTING AND RETAINING KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND QUALIFIED TECHNICAL AND SALES PERSONNEL. WE ALSO FACE CERTAIN RISKS AS A RESULT OF THE RECENT CHANGES TO OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM. Our future success depends in part on the contributions of our management team and key technical and sales personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In particular, our success depends on our new management team, consisting of Steven Walin, our Chief Executive Officer, and Joseph Restivo, our Chief Financial Officer, both of whom joined us in March 2006. Mr. Walin and Mr. Restivo are each a party to an employment agreement with us that expires in March 2009. There is significant competition in our industry for qualified managerial, technical and sales personnel and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key senior managerial, technical and sales personnel or that we will be able to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that we may require in the future. We also cannot assure you that our employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we cannot work together effectively to overcome any operational challenges that arise during the integration process, if our new management team cannot master the details of our business and our market or if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. WE RELY ON INDEPENDENT DEALERS AND DISTRIBUTORS TO SELL OUR PRODUCTS. DISRUPTION TO THIS DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL WOULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Because we sell a significant portion of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory levels and support for our products. In particular, if dealers and distributors do not maintain sufficient levels of inventory to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted. Our dealers and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business could suffer. 9 OUR BUSINESS AND REPUTATION AS A DISTRIBUTOR OF HIGH QUALITY VIDEO SURVEILLANCE AND SECURITY EQUIPMENT MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY PRODUCT DEFECTS OR SUBSTANDARD PERFORMANCE. We believe that we offer state-of-the art products that are reliable and competitively priced. In the event that our products do not perform to specifications, we and/or the manufacturer of such products might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products. In addition, product defects could result in substantial product liability. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that it is adequate or that it will remain available on acceptable terms. If we face liability claims that exceed our insurance or that are not covered by our insurance, our business, financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected. OUR GROWTH STRATEGY INCLUDES MAKING ACQUISITIONS IN THE FUTURE, WHICH COULD SUBJECT US TO SIGNIFICANT RISKS, ANY OF WHICH COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our growth strategy includes identifying and acquiring or investing in suitable candidates on acceptable terms. Over time, we may acquire or make investments in other providers of product offerings that complement our business and other companies in the security industry. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: · diversion of management's attention from running our existing business; · increased expenses, including travel, legal, administrative and compensation expenses resulting from newly hired employees; · increased costs to integrate personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired company with our own; · adverse effects on our reported operating results due to possible write-down of goodwill or other assets associated with acquisitions; · potential disputes with sellers of acquired businesses, technologies, services or products; and · dilution to stockholders if we issue securities in any acquisition. Moreover, performance problems with an acquired business, technology, product or service could also have a material adverse impact on our reputation as a whole. In addition, any acquired business, technology, product or service could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations, and we may not achieve the benefits we expect from our acquisitions. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition and investment strategy or any individual acquisition or investment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In December 2004 we completed the acquisition of Rapor, Inc. During the third quarter of 2006, we recorded impairment costs of approximately $977,000 related to Rapor. These costs resulted from the write-off of goodwill of approximately $544,000, as well as the write-off of the remaining net book values of trademark and technology associated with the Rapor products of approximately $433,000. Management has concluded that the Rapor product line no longer fits our existing distribution channels and market strategy and, accordingly wrote-off goodwill, trademarks and technology associated with this product line. We are currently evaluating opportunities to dispose of our Rapor products, and have discussed the licensing and/or sale of this business line with several parties. 10 OUR PRODUCT OFFERINGS INVOLVE A LENGTHY SALES CYCLE AND WE MAY NOT ANTICIPATE SALES LEVELS APPROPRIATELY, WHICH COULD IMPAIR OUR PROFITABILITY. Some of our products and services are designed for medium to large commercial, industrial and government facilities desiring to protect valuable assets and/or prevent intrusion into high security facilities in the United States and abroad. Given the nature of our products and the customers that purchase them, sales cycles can be lengthy as customers conduct intensive investigations and deliberate between competing technologies and providers. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with some of our products and services is typically lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. If sales in any period fall significantly below anticipated levels, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. In addition, our operating expenses are based on anticipated sales levels, and a high percentage of our expenses are generally fixed in the short term. As a result of these factors, a small fluctuation in timing of sales can cause operating results to vary from period to period. WE FACE LABOR, POLITICAL AND CURRENCY RISKS BECAUSE SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS' FACTORIES ARE LOCATED IN KOREA AND CHINA, AND WE MAY FACE OTHER RISKS IF WE CONTINUE TO EXPAND OUR BUSINESS INTERNATIONALLY. Since our primary suppliers are located in Korea and China, we may face a number of additional risks, including those arising from the current political tension between North and South Korea. While we have not faced any problems to date, in the future, as we continue to expand our business internationally, we may face: · regulatory limitations imposed by foreign governments, · price increases due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, · political, military and terrorist risks, · disruptions or delays in shipments caused by customs brokers or government agencies, · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers, and · potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws. We cannot assure you that one or more of the factors described above will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. INVESTMENT RISKS OUR COMMON STOCK IS THINLY TRADED ON THE OTC BULLETIN BOARD, AND WE MAY BE UNABLE TO OBTAIN LISTING OF OUR COMMON STOCK ON A MORE LIQUID MARKET. Our Common Stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange (such as the American or New York Stock Exchange) or an automated quotation system (such as the NASDAQ National Market or NASDAQ Capital Market). There is uncertainty that we will ever be accepted for a listing on an automated quotation system or securities exchange. PENNY STOCK REGULATIONS MAY AFFECT YOUR ABILITY TO SELL OUR COMMON STOCK. To the extent the price of our Common Stock remains below $5.00 per share, our Common Stock will be subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker dealers which sell these securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend penny stocks to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors" must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the 11 associated risks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our Common Stock and may make it more difficult for holders of our Common Stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. FUTURE SALES OF COMMON STOCK COULD RESULT IN A DECLINE IN THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK. The holders of approximately 1,065,520 shares of Common Stock are able to sell such shares without registering them under the Securities Act. In connection with our October 2006 and January 2007 private placements, after giving effect to our recent 50-for-1 reverse stock split and the conversion of the notes sold in our October 2006 private placement, we issued an aggregate of 26,915,650 shares of Common Stock. In February 2007, an S-1 registration statement providing for the resale of 8,150,789 of those shares of Common Stock was declared effective by the SEC. Sales of a significant number of shares of our Common Stock in the public market could result in a decline in the market price of our Common Stock, particularly in light of the illiquidity and low trading volume in our Common Stock. SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ARE OWNED BY THE INVESTORS IN OUR OCTOBER 2006 PRIVATE PLACEMENT, WHICH LIMITS THE ABILITY OF OUR OTHER STOCKHOLDERS TO INFLUENCE CORPORATE MATTERS. As a result of our October 2006 private placement and conversion of the Convertible Notes issued in that private placement, the investors in the private placement as a group were the beneficial owners of approximately 96% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock. Accordingly, these stockholders can decide the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and also could prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. Third parties may be discouraged from making a tender offer or bid to acquire us because of this concentration of ownership. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 