RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our capital requirements have historically been significant and we may not in the future be able to meet our requirements with our working capital. Historically, our capital requirements have been significant. We may in the future require additional financing to fund our operations and capital requirements beyond our current resources and funding that may be provided from our operations or revolving line of credit. In such event, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us when needed, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We have no expectation that our existing shareholders will provide any portion of our future financing requirements. Any inability to obtain additional financing when needed would have a material adverse effect on us, requiring us to curtail our expansion efforts. In addition, to the extent that we incur substantial indebtedness, we will be subject to risks associated with incurring substantial indebtedness, including the risk that interest rates may fluctuate, and cash may be insufficient to repay interest and principal on any such indebtedness. Any additional equity financing may involve substantial dilution of the interests of our then-existing shareholders. We have had difficulties in making our debt payments and may not be able to make debt payments that we may incur in the future. In December 2006, through the issuance of convertible debentures, we raised net proceeds of NIS 61,900 thousand (approximately $14,780 thousand at the date of issuance). The first principal payment on the debentures was due December 31, 2009. Prior to the first principal payment we concluded that making full payment at such time would have had an adverse affect on our cash flow and, therefore, initiated negotiations with our debenture holders in order to reach an alternative payment arrangement. That arrangement was approved by the debenture holders on November 24, 2010 and by the Tel Aviv District Court on December 13, 2010, and the amendment to the indenture, pursuant to which the debentures had been issued, was entered into on December 31, 2010. In 2011, we repaid the remaining outstanding principal balance of, and accrued interest on, the convertible debentures in full. For a more detailed discussion of the debenture arrangement, see “Information About the Company – Recent Developments,” “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Additional Information – Material Contracts.” Although we entered into a credit agreement with Leumi bank, which provides for a revolving credit facility of $600 thousand, in 2011, we have not used this line of credit yet. Our ability to meet our debt obligations that we may incur in the future under the credit facility or otherwise will depend on whether we can implement our strategy as well as on financial, competitive and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control. The impact of a continuing global economic downturn, including the European debt crisis, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We sell our products and services in various countries all over the world, including Europe. Consequently, our sales and profitability are dependent on general economic conditions globally and locally. The weakening of consumer and corporate confidence, declining income and asset values in many areas and other adverse factors related to the global economic downturn that has been ongoing during the past several years has resulted in our customers and the end-users of our products, services and solutions, postponing or reducing spending on our products, services and solutions. A substantial and lasting slowdown of the global economy could result in a continuation of that trend thereby adversely affect our business. The global economic downturn and the European debt crisis in particular have also led to more limited availability of credit which may have a negative impact on the financial condition, and in particular on the purchasing ability, of some of our customers and may also result in requests for extended payment terms, credit losses, insolvencies, limited ability to respond to demand or diminished sales channels available to us. The general difficult economic conditions combined with tightening credit markets may also cause financial difficulties for our suppliers and collaborative partners which may result in their failure to perform as planned and, consequently, in delays in the delivery of our products, services and solutions. 4 For example, the European debt crisis, which has had a negative impact on the European economy, has adversely impacted our operations. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, we generated $16.4 million, $14.3 million and $20.5 million, respectively, of revenues from our operations in Europe, which represented 70%, 66% and 71%, respectively, of our total revenues. The tightening of European credit markets may result in additional deterioration of our customers’ and end-users’ credit quality or access to cash, which could lower the realization rate on our accounts receivable. In addition, the debt crisis in certain European countries could cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our customers and end-users of our products or services, which can lead to the lower demand for such products or services, increase our exposure to losses from bad debts or result in our customers or end-users ceasing operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results from operations. The difficult global economic conditions may also result in inefficiencies due to our reduced ability to forecast developments in our industry and plan our operations accordingly. Also, continuing difficult general economic conditions, negative developments in our industry, any significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future results by us or any part of our business, or any significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business may cause reductions in the future valuations of our investments and assets and result in impairment charges related to goodwill or other assets. Adverse economic conditions affecting us, our current and potential customers, their spending on our products, services and solutions, and our suppliers and collaborative partners may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For a more detailed discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, see “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If we acquire additional businesses, it may lead to increased expenditures and integration costs, and could strain management, financial, and operational resources. Between 2007 and 2009, we acquired related complementary businesses in an effort to expand capacity, enter new markets and diversify our sources of revenue. These expenditures strained and any future acquisitions may strain management, financial and operational resources. While we do not currently anticipate any future acquisitions, any future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurring of additional debt, the assumption of known and unknown liabilities, the amortization of expenses related to intangible assets and the impairment of goodwill, all of which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Acquisitions in foreign countries may pose additional problems, and we may experience inefficiencies in conducting our business as we integrate new operations and manage geographically dispersed operations. Also, the acquired businesses may not yield the income and levels of activity we expected them to yield, which may result in losses. Additionally, we may not succeed in retaining or hiring qualified management, sales, customer support, and technical personnel to integrate acquired operations, manage future growth effectively, and accomplish our overall objectives. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we expand too fast, or fail to integrate our recently acquired businesses or other new businesses, or lose key personnel from our recently acquired businesses or other businesses, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial condition. The market for data capture systems and automatic form processing systems is highly competitive. The market for data capture systems in general, and for automatic form processing systems in particular, is characterized by intense competition, significant price erosion over the life of the product, and rapidly changing business conditions, customer requirements, and technology. Our products compete with those developed and marketed by numerous well-established companies, including EMC (Captiva Software), Mitek, Banctec, Kofax (formerly, Dicom Group), Datacap, and ReadSoft, as well as with manual data entry systems. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial resources than we do. Furthermore, certain of these competitors are industry leaders with the financial resources necessary to enable them to withstand substantial price competition or downturns in the market for computer software. The fact that our resources are more limited places us at a significant disadvantage. This risk is particularly acute during difficult economic times. 5 A slowdown in our customers’ industries could adversely impact the sale of our products and our prospects of achieving or maintaining profitability. A slowdown in the industries to which we sell our products would likely result in significantly reduced product demand, erosion of selling prices and overcapacity. Such a downturn could materially reduce demand for the products and technology that we offer. In addition, our ability to reduce expenses in response to any downturn or slowdown in such industries may be limited because of: · our continuing need to invest in research and development; · our capital equipment requirements; and · marketing requirements. Our success depends on our strategic marketing relationships and the marketing and distribution efforts of our distributors and other strategic partners. Our business and prospects depend upon our ability to maintain our existing, and to develop additional, strategic marketing relationships and upon the marketing and distribution efforts of our distributors and other strategic partners. The loss or diminishment of our relationship with any one of our significant strategic partners could have a material and adverse effect on our existing operations and growth prospects. We normally attempt to recruit distributors with established distribution channels and reputations for marketing and installing document imaging, data capture and workflow systems to market our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop such relationships. Our industry is marked by rapid technological changes and frequent new or updated product introductions, and if we do not respond to such rapid technological changes, new product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards, our products and services could become obsolete. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability to offer state-of-the-art products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our product decisions must anticipate the changing demand for products. If we are unable to develop, modify and enhance our existing technology to respond to such changing standards and customer demands, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, the development of new technologies, new product introductions or enhancements by our competitors could adversely affect our sales. We have had a history of losses and may incur future losses. Since our inception in March 1991, we have incurred net losses in every year other than in 1995, 1997, 1998, 2006, 2008 and 2011, and our losses may continue. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $23,649 thousand. We plan to maintain the level of our aggregate product development expenses. We cannot assure you that our revenues will grow or that we will continue to achieve positive profitability in the future. Failure to increase revenues could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial results. We have a history of quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations and expect these fluctuations to continue, this may cause our stock price to decline. We have experienced and expect to experience in the future significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. Our lengthy sales cycle increases our exposure to customer cancellations or delays in orders, which may result in volatile quarterly revenues. Given the high average selling price of, and the cost and time required to implement our solutions, a customer’s decision to license our products typically involves a significant commitment of resources and is influenced by the customer’s budget cycles and internal approval procedures for information technology purchases. In addition, selling our solutions requires us to educate potential customers about our solutions’ uses and benefits. As a result, our solutions have a long sales cycle, which can take 9 to 12 months or more. Consequently, we have difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers may occur. The sale of our solutions is also subject to delays from the lengthy budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes of our customers, which typically accompany significant capital expenditures. 6 Other factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations include: · the size, timing and shipment of orders; · customer deferral of orders in anticipation of new products, product upgrades or price enhancements; · the high level of competition that we encounter; and · the timing of our product introductions, upgrades or enhancements or those of our competitors or of providers of complementary products. Fluctuations in our quarterly results could discourage investors and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Large customers constitute a significant portion of our orders. Sales to large customers have historically accounted for a significant part of our sales. Although in 2011, and 2010, we had no customer who accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues. In 2009, sales to one customer accounted for 11% of our total revenue. If we are unable in the future to complete sales to large customers or continue to diversify our client base, our business, prospects and financial results could be adversely affected. Our success depends on our key personnel. Our success depends upon the contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel. All of our key management and technical personnel have expertise, which is in high demand among our competitors, and the loss of any of these individuals could cause our business to suffer. We do not as a general matter maintain key person life insurance policies on our officers, directors and key employees. Our solutions require a sophisticated sales effort targeted at senior management of our prospective customers. New employees in our sales department require extensive training and typically take several months to achieve full productivity. There is no assurance that new sales representatives will ultimately become productive. If we were to lose qualified and productive sales personnel, our revenues could be adversely impacted. Our success depends on our proprietary software technology. Our success depends upon our proprietary software technology. Although we believe that our technology has been developed independently and does not infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we cannot assure you that the technology does not and will not infringe or that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. In the case of infringement, we would, under certain circumstances, be required to modify our products or obtain a license. We cannot assure you that we would be able to do so either in a timely manner under acceptable terms and conditions or at all, or that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to defend successfully a patent infringement or other proprietary rights infringement action. Further, even if we were not infringing, intellectual property litigation is expensive and time consuming for management. Failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, if our products or technologies are deemed to infringe upon the rights of others, or if infringement claims are asserted against third parties whom we are obligated to indemnify, we could become liable for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on us. 7 We license components of our software systems and technology from third parties in reliance on such parties’ representations as to ownership of the licensed intellectual property. If our licensors are found not to own or have rights to sublicense such rights to us and we are unable to replace the licensed technology with a comparable substitute, there could be a material adverse effect on our business prospects and financial results. Even if we were to replace licensed technology with available alternatives, it could take time to identify the best replacement and integrate it into our software. The delay and uncertainty could negatively impact our financial results. Yehezkel Yeshurun, our former Chief Scientist and our former member of our board of directors, was, at the time of his employment with us (which terminated in January 2001), a Professor of the Tel Aviv University Computer Science Department, referred to as the University, where he conducted research in the areas of computer vision, neural computation and robotics. While the University consented to Prof. Yeshurun’s employment by us and has not asserted any claim that intellectual property developed by Prof. Yeshurun on our behalf belongs to the University, the University has not acknowledged our rights to any intellectual property developed by Prof. Yeshurun. We cannot assure you that the University will not assert a claim for such intellectual property rights in the future or that the University does not have any rights to such intellectual property. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our competitive position and, consequently, our business and operations. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely upon trade secret protection, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our confidential and proprietary information. Despite these efforts, we cannot be certain that others will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or copy and use information that we regard as proprietary without our authorization. We have not obtained any patents and we cannot assure you that we will obtain any patents. In addition, we cannot assure you that: · Our pending patent application will result in the issuance of patent to us. · any patents which we may obtain will be broad enough to protect our technology, will provide us with competitive advantages or will escape challenge or invalidation by third parties; · the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business; or · others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or, if patents are issued to us, design around these patents. Further, the laws of foreign jurisdictions where we sell and seek to sell our products may afford little or no protection of our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the protection provided to our intellectual property rights by the laws and courts of foreign nations will be substantially similar to the remedies available under U.S. law. If we are unable to achieve and maintain a leading position and to build awareness of our brands, we may not be able to compete effectively against competitors with greater name recognition and our sales could be adversely affected. If we are unable to economically achieve and maintain a leading position in data recognition software or to promote and maintain our brands, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. Development and awareness of our brands will depend largely on our success in increasing our customer base. In order to attract and retain customers and to promote and maintain our brands in response to competitive pressures, we may be required to increase our marketing and advertising budget or increase our other sales expenses. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be sufficient or that we will be successful in attracting and retaining customers or promoting our brands. Failure in this regard could harm our business and results of operations. 8 Our products may contain defects, damaging our reputation, causing a loss of customers, requiring us to allocate significant time and financial resources to correct, and potentially resulting in liability claims. Our products may contain undetected errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In the past, we have discovered minor software bugs in certain products after they were released to the market. Such errors or defects could require us to divert financial and other resources to correct the problems. In addition, our products are combined with complex products developed by other vendors. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source or sources of the problems. Defects and errors, or end-user perception of defects and errors, found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of these products after commencement of commercial shipments may result in: · damage to brand reputation; · loss of customers; · delay in market acceptance of current and future products; · diversion of development and engineering resources to correct defects or errors; and · warranty or product liability claims. Although we have product liability insurance, defects, errors or successful product liability claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial results. For additional information on our warranty policy, see below “ Business Overview – Customers --- Warranty and Service.” We engage in international sales, which expose us to a number of foreign political and economic risks. We have significant operations in foreign countries, including research and development, sales and customer support operations. Currently, in addition to our operations in Israel, we have significant operations in the United Kingdom, Germany, Singapore and the United States. Our international sales and other operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including, but not limited to: · domestic and foreign customs and tariffs or other trade barriers; · potential staffing difficulties and labor disputes; · managing and obtaining support and distribution for local operations; · difficulty in enforcing agreements through the different legal systems of the countries in which we operate; · customers in the various countries in which we operate may have long payment cycles; · seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world; · restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings from countries in which we operate; · credit risk and financial conditions of local customers and distributors; · potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property; · potential imposition of restrictions on investments; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · foreign currency exchange restrictions and fluctuations; · natural disasters; and · local political and social conditions, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions, terrorism and political instability in certain countries. 9 Approximately 71% of our revenues in 2011 were generated from sales made in Europe. If this trend continues, we may be more particularly exposed to the risk of losing business and revenues as a result of trade restrictions imposed by the European Union as well as ramifications of the debt crisis in certain European countries. See “The impact of a continuing global economic downturn, including the European debt crisis, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition”. We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing risks in a timely and effective manner at each location where we do business. Consequently, the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or upon our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We maintain operations and generate revenues in a number of countries. The results of operations and the financial position of our local operations are generally reported in the relevant local currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, exposing us to currency translation risk. In addition, we are exposed to currency transaction risk because some of our expenses are incurred in a different currency from the currency in which our revenues are received. Our most significant currency exposures are to the Euro, New Israeli Shekel, British Pound and Singapore dollar. In periods when the U.S. dollar weakens against these other currencies, our reported results of operations may be adversely affected. Although from time to time we may purchase forward exchange contracts to reduce currency transaction risk, these purchases will not eliminate translation risk or all currency risk. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel may adversely affect our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products. Because our principal offices are located in Israel, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. There has been a marked increase in such hostility and a significant deterioration of Israel’s relationship with the Palestinian community since October 2000, and especially since Hamas, an Islamic movement responsible for many attacks against Israelis, has led the government of the Palestinian Authority. In 2010, events and developments related to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict have also led to a deterioration of Israel’s relations with Turkey, with whom Israel currently has a free trade agreement. In addition, the first few months of 2011 have been marked by increasing instability in neighboring Arab countries including Egypt, Jordan, Tunisia, Libya, Bahrain , Yemen and in the last few months of 2011, Syria as well, culminating in the ouster of certain leaders in some of those countries, and the first few months of 2012 were marked by increased tension relating to Iran’s nuclear capabilities and the potential response of Israel and the international community to the notion of Iran gaining nuclear capabilities. Continuing or escalating instabilities and hostilities in the region or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners as a result or in response to such instabilities may have an adverse effect on our business conditions, including our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligation of key personnel to perform military service. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually. Moreover, in the event of armed conflict in which Israel is involved or the threat of such conflict, our executive officers and employees might be called for active military duty for an unlimited period of time. Increased military activity could also result in a reduction of prospective qualified employees available to work for us to expand our business or replace employees on active military duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of our executive officers or key employees as a result of military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our ability to develop and market products. 10 We may not be able to expand our personnel or marketing efforts quickly enough to support our growth. Because of our small size and our business strategy to increase our sales we anticipate an increased demand on all of our resources. To the extent that our efforts to generate new business and increase demand for our products and services are successful, we will need to accurately estimate our need for personnel or marketing and customer support, or we may not be able to support our future growth. For example, if we are successful in our efforts to obtain significant orders for our products, we may be required to install and service, on a timely basis, large numbers of installations at our customers’ locations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to provide such services on adequate terms and conditions or at all. Furthermore, in order to remain competitive and keep our products up to date, we need to continue to attract and retain a qualified team of employees. If we fail to obtain the human resources our business requires, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, and financial results. Government grants we received for research and development expenditures may be reduced or eliminated in the future due to Israeli government budget cuts. Furthermore, our receipt of such grants limits our ability to develop products and transfer technologies outside of Israel, and require us to satisfy specified conditions. In the past, we have received grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry Trade and Labor, or the OCS, under the Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984 for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. The Israeli government may decide not to continue the program in the future at its current level or to terminate it altogether. The terms of the OCS grants limit our ability to develop products and transfer technologies outside of Israel without the prior approval of the OCS, if such products or technologies were developed using OCS grants. Such approval, if granted, will generally be subject to additional financial obligations. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the OCS, including the payment of royalties with respect to grants received, we may be required to refund any payments previously received from the OCS, together with interest and penalties. See also “Governmental Regulation” in Item 4 below. If we fail to satisfy the conditions specified under Israeli law, we may be denied benefits to which we are currently entitled or may be entitled to in the future. Our facilities in Israel have been granted “Approved Enterprise” (established plan) and " Benefited Enterprise" status under "The Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959", or the Investment Law, as amended. The benefits available to an Approved Enterprise program are normally in the form of favorable tax rates and are dependent upon the continuing fulfillment of ongoing conditions stipulated under applicable law and in the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, benefits from tax exemptions or reduced tax rates would likely be denied us in the future. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the Investment Law came into effect. The amendment revised the criteria for investments qualified to receive tax benefits. An eligible investment program under the amendment will qualify for benefits as a Benefited Enterprise (rather than the previous terminology of Approved Enterprise). Among other things, the amendment provides tax benefits to both local and foreign investors and simplifies the approval process. The amendment does not apply to investment programs approved prior to December 31, 2004. The new tax regime applies to new investment programs only. We believe that we are currently in compliance with these requirements. However, if we fail to meet these requirements, we would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the regular statutory rate (24% for 2011). For the year 2009, our investment plan has been categorized under the above amendment, and the tax benefits under this investment plan are scheduled to gradually expire by 2020. The Investment Law has recently been amended. For a description of the material amendments, see “Additional Information-Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959.” 11 The application and/or amendment of Israeli laws or laws of other countries may adversely affect our ability to enforce judgments or other rights. Because our principal offices are located in Israel, we are subject to Israeli law. Many of our contracts with third parties are subject to the laws of other jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that any judgments granted in the United States or any jurisdiction other than Israel would be capable of enforcement or execution in Israel. Nor can we assure you that any of our contracts pursuant to the laws of any foreign country are enforceable by us. The inability to enforce or execute judgments or other rights and/or the possibility of the laws of various jurisdictions being amended from time to time may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, and financial condition. Under current Israeli law and caselaw, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete, and, therefore, we may be unable to prevent competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. In general, we have entered into non-competition agreements with our employees in Israel. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under current law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise that our former employees gained while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer that have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to our material interests, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. The economic impact in Japan of the devastation caused by the massive earthquake and tsunami of March 2011 could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. On March 11, 2011, a massive earthquake off the eastern coast of Japan triggered a tsunami tidal wave that devastated much of the city of Sendai and large areas of coastal north-eastern Japan, causing thousands of deaths, catastrophic damage and destruction of the local infrastructure, as well as a potential nuclear disaster. It is too early to predict the long-term impact of this disaster on the economy of Japan and elsewhere. Our net sales in Japan constitute approximately 4% of our total net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and a slow-down in the Japanese economy could have a adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our net assets in Japan constitute approximately 3% of our total net assets as of December 31, 2011. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our ordinary shares have been subject to frequent significant price fluctuations. Trading in shares of companies listed on the NASDAQ and TASE in general and trading in shares of technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market and industry fluctuations may depress our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. In addition, the trading price of our ordinary shares has been highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: · actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; · litigation or the threat of litigation; · failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts, if any; 12 · announcements regarding new or existing products or services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; · conditions or trends in the software industry; · additions or departures of key personnel or directors; · regulatory developments in the United States and other countries in which we operate; · developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property rights; · general market conditions; · overall fluctuations in the U.S. and Israeli equity markets; and · economic and other external factors or disasters or crises. If we fail to maintain NASDAQ minimum price requirements, the TASE minimum valuation requirements or other applicable continued listing requirements, our ordinary shares could be delisted. According to NASDAQ listing standards, if the stock price of a listed company falls below $1.00 a share for a period of 30 consecutive business days, such company’s stock may be subject to delisting unless such failure is cured within 180 days from the date on which NASDAQ notifies the listed company of such failure. According to the TASE rules, a company with stock that trades on both the TASE and NASDAQ must comply with the TASE minimum valuation requirements which currently provide that it must have a minimum market capitalization of NIS 25 million. If the company does not comply with the minimum valuation requirements, compliance with which is being tested on a semi-annual basis, it is given six months to regain compliance or be delisted. Our ordinary shares were in compliance with the minimum valuation requirements as of March 18, 2012. If we fail to maintain the minimum price for our ordinary shares required by NASDAQ, maintain the minimum valuation required by TASE rules, or comply with other continued listing requirements of these exchanges, our ordinary shares could be delisted. In addition, if our ordinary shares are delisted from NASDAQ, we will lose our status as a “dually-listed company” which will result in us being subject to different reporting requirements under Israeli securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Israeli Securities Authority and the TASE which may cause an increase in our reporting related costs and expenses. In addition, the rules and regulations of the Israeli Securities Authority and the TASE will require our financial reports to be prepared in accordance with a different accounting method than we currently utilize, which will result in increases in our reporting related costs and expenses. A large number of our ordinary shares could be sold in the market in the near future, which would cause downward pressure on the market price for our ordinary shares. As of March 18, 2012, we had approximately 11,167,193 ordinary shares outstanding, of which 8,740,209 were held by shareholders who were not our directors, executive officers and more than 10% shareholders. Upon effectiveness of the registration statement on Form F-3, the selling securityholders have been able to freely sell all of the ordinary shares covered by such registration statement, which is substantial in relation to our outstanding ordinary shares and public float of our ordinary shares. In addition, a substantial portion of our shares is currently freely trading without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, having been registered for resale or held by their holders for over one year and are eligible for sale under Rule 144. As of March 18, 2012, there were outstanding options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 1,837,595 ordinary shares. 13 If shareholders determine to sell a significant number of shares into the market or there is a perception that the holders intend to sell these shares, including upon their exercise of options or warrants, there likely will not be a sufficient demand in the market to purchase the shares without a decline in the market price of our ordinary shares. Moreover, continuous sales into the market of a number of shares in excess of the typical trading market for our ordinary shares, or even the availability of such a large number of shares, could depress the trading market for our ordinary shares over an extended period of time. Future issuances of our ordinary shares could adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares and could result in substantial dilution to shareholders. We may need to issue substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in financings or acquisitions in the future. To the extent that the market price of our ordinary shares declines, we will need to issue an increasing number of ordinary shares per dollar of equity investment. In order to obtain future financing if required, it is likely that we will issue additional ordinary shares or financial instruments that are exchangeable for or convertible into ordinary shares. Capital raising activities, if available, and dilution associated with such activities could cause our share price to decline. Also, in order to compensate our directors, provide incentives to our employees and induce prospective employees and consultants to work for us, from time to time we offer and issue options to purchase ordinary shares and/or rights exchangeable for or convertible into ordinary shares. Future issuances of shares could result in substantial dilution to shareholders. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ and on the TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is effected in different currencies (US dollars on the NASDAQ and New Israeli Shekels on the TASE) and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ, resulting from the factors described above as well as differences in exchange rates and from political events and economic conditions in the United States and Israel. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. Our ordinary shares may become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules. Generally, transactions in securities that are traded in the United States at a market price per share of less than $5.00, may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional investors: · must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. As a result of these requirements, if our common shares become subject to the “penny stock” rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our ordinary shares in the United States may be significantly limited. Accordingly, the market price of our ordinary shares may be depressed, and investors may find it more difficult to sell the shares. 14 We have not paid dividends in the past. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We have retained any future earnings to finance operations and to expand our business and, therefore, may not pay any cash dividends in the future. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by the Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999, or the Companies Law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, pursuant to the Companies Law each shareholder of an Israeli company has to act in good faith in exercising its rights and fulfilling its obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders and class meetings, on amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers, and transactions requiring shareholders’ approval under the Companies Law. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company, or has other powers toward the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on NASDAQ, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on NASDAQ, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Listing Rules. As a foreign private issuer listed on NASDAQ, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors and quorum at shareholders' meetings. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer's home country certifying that the issuer's practices are not prohibited by the home country's laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ's corporate governance rules. Provisions of Israeli law could delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. The Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and by the shareholders of a participating company by the vote of a majority of the shares of each class present and voting on the proposed merger. The Companies Law has specific provisions for determining the majority of the shareholder vote. Upon the request of any creditor of a constituent in the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy its obligations to creditors. In general, a merger may not be completed until the passage of certain statutory time periods. In certain circumstances, an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer that complies with certain requirements of the Companies Law that differ from those that apply to U.S. corporations. Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which, if public trading in our ordinary shares resumes, could depress our share price. 15 We are a foreign private issuer and you will receive less information about us than you would from a domestic U.S. corporation. As a “foreign private issuer”, we are exempt from rules under the Exchange Act that impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements in connection with proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders also are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder with respect to their purchases and sales of our shares. In addition, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. As a result, you may not be able to obtain the same information relating to us as you would for a domestic U.S. corporation. Although our internal control over financial reporting was considered effective as of December 31, 2011, there is no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to be effective in the future, which could result in our financial statements being unreliable, government investigation or loss of investor confidence in our financial reports. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. We may also identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting has not been audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. In the future, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls are effective; our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities. 