Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of risks and uncertainties associated with our supplier relationships and with the sourcing of raw materials and ingredients. In 2001, we established our own production facility in Shanghai, where we currently manufacture the personal care products sold through our retail stores in China, as well as a small portion of product exported to select other markets. If the need arose, this plant could be expanded—or other facilities could be built in China—to produce larger amounts of inventory for export as a back-up to our usual supply chain. Pharmanex. Substantially all of our Pharmanex nutritional supplements and ingredients, including LifePak, are produced or provided by industry-leading third-party suppliers and manufacturers. We rely on two partners for the majority of our Pharmanex products, one of which supplies approximately 35% and the other of which supplies approximately 22% of our nutritional supplements. In the event we become unable to source any products or ingredients from these suppliers or from other current vendors, we believe that we would be able to produce or replace those products or substitute ingredients without great difficulty or significant increases to our cost of goods sold. Please refer to Item 1A. — “Risk Factors” for a discussion of certain risks and uncertainties associated with our supplier relationships, as well as with the sourcing of raw materials and ingredients. -7- We also maintain a facility located in Zhejiang Province, China, where we produce herbal extracts for Tegreen 97, ReishiMax GLp and other products sold globally. In 2005, we completed the build-out of a new manufacturing facility in Zhejiang Province where we produce some of our Pharmanex nutritional supplements for sale through our retail stores in China as well as a small portion of product exported to other markets. We are also considering the potential expansion of our manufacturing and export capabilities in Shanghai to the extent we conclude it necessary to supplement the output of our existing facility. In addition, we operate a plant in Shanghai where we manufacture our Scanners. This facility supports all of our current and anticipated future market demands. Big Planet. The majority of our Big Planet and Photomax products and services are provided by third parties, pursuant to contractual arrangements. By acting as a private-labeled agent for other vendors, we are able to avoid the large capital investment that would be required to build the infrastructure necessary to fulfill Big Planet’s product offerings. However, our profit margins and our ability to deliver quality services at competitive prices depend upon our ability to negotiate and maintain favorable terms with third-party providers. In connection with our Big Planet digital photography services, we are developing our own internal infrastructure for some of these offerings. Research and Development We continually invest in our research and development capabilities. Our research and development expenditures were approximately $8 million in 2004, $8 million in 2005 and $9 million in 2006. Because of our commitment to product innovation, we will continue to commit resources to research and development in the future. Our primary research laboratory, adjacent to our office complex in Provo, Utah, houses both Pharmanex and Nu Skin research facilities and professional and technical personnel. We also maintain research facilities in China. Much of our Pharmanex research to date has been conducted in China, where we benefit from a well-educated, low-cost scientific labor pool that enables us to conduct research and clinical trials at a much lower cost than would be possible in the United States. We also have collaborative relationships with numerous independent scientists, including scientific advisory boards comprised of recognized authorities in various related disciplines for each of our nutritional and personal care product categories. We maintain collaborative arrangements with prominent universities and research institutions in the United States, Europe and Asia, whose staffs include scientists with expertise in natural product chemistry, biochemistry, dermatology, pharmacology and clinical studies. Some of the university research centers with which we have collaborated include UC Davis, UCLA, Stanford University, Vanderbilt University, Tufts University, Columbia University, the University of Kansas, the University of Hong Kong School of Medicine and Taiwan Academia Sinica. In addition, we evaluate a significant number of product ideas for our Nu Skin and Pharmanex categories presented by outside sources. We utilize strategic licensing and other relationships with vendors for access to directed research and development work for innovative offerings. -8- In order to provide high-quality nutritional supplements, Pharmanex utilizes a unique 6S Quality Process® in our development and sourcing activities. The 6S Quality Process enhances our ability to provide consumers with safe, effective and consistent products and involves the following steps: • Selection. Conducting a scientific review of research and databases in connection with the selection of potential products and ingredients and determining the authenticity, usefulness and safety standards for potential products and ingredients. • Sourcing. Investigating potential sources, evaluating the quality of sources and performing botanical and chemical evaluations where appropriate. • Structure. Determining the structural profile of natural compounds and active ingredients. • Standardization. Standardizing the product’s dosage of biologically relevant active ingredients. • Safety. Assessing safety from available research and, where necessary, performing additional tests—such as microbial tests and chemical analyses—for toxins and heavy metals. • Substantiation. Reviewing documented pre-clinical and clinical trials and, where necessary and appropriate, initiating studies and clinical trials sponsored by Pharmanex. Geographic Sales Regions We currently sell and distribute our products in 45 markets, employing a direct selling model in each of our markets except China. We have modified our geographic regions to report Europe as a separate region as it has grown and increased its significance to our business. Our operations are now divided into the following five geographic regions: North Asia, Greater China, Americas, South Asia/Pacific and Europe. The following table sets forth the revenue for each of the geographic regions for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006: Revenue by Region Year Ended December 31, (U.S. dollars in millions) 2004 2005 2006 North Asia $ 640.1 56% $ 649.4 55% $ 593.8 53% Greater China 229.8 20 236.7 20 208.2 19 Americas 149.6 13 162.1 14 165.9 15 South Asia/Pacific 81.8 7 86.7 7 88.0 8 Europe 36.6 4 46.0 4 59.5 5 $ 1,137.9 100% $ 1,180.9 100% $ 1,115.4 100% Additional comparative revenue and related financial information is presented in the tables captioned “Segment Information” in Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The information from these tables is incorporated by reference in this Report. -9- North Asia. The following table provides information on each of the markets in the North Asia region, including the year it was opened, 2006 revenue and the percentage of our total 2006 revenue for each market: (U.S. dollars in millions) Year Opened 2006 Revenue Percentage of 2006 Revenue Japan 1993 $ 476.5 43% South Korea 1996 $ 117.3 11% Japan is our largest market and accounted for approximately 43% of total revenue in 2006. We market most of our Nu Skin and Pharmanex products in Japan, along with a limited number of Big Planet offerings. In addition, all three product categories offer a limited number of locally developed products sold exclusively in our Japanese market. In 2006 we launched the S2 Scanner and g3 nutritional juice in Japan, with first quarter 2007 plans to introduce a new anti-aging skin care product developed specifically for Japan. In South Korea, we offer most of our Nu Skin and Pharmanex products, along with a limited number of Big Planet services. In 2006 we launched our g3 nutritional juice and the latest version of our Nu Skin 180° skin treatment line, and we plan to launch the S2 the first part of 2007. Greater China. The following table provides information on each of the markets in the Greater China region, including the year it was opened, 2006 revenue and the percentage of our total 2006 revenue for each market: (U.S. dollars in millions) Year Opened 2006 Revenue Percentage of 2006 Revenue China 2003 $ 70.5 6% Taiwan 1992 $ 93.1 8% Hong Kong 1991 $ 44.6 4% Our Hong Kong and Taiwan operations are aligned with our global direct selling business model and our global compensation plan. We offer a robust product offering of the majority of our Nu Skin and Pharmanex products in Hong Kong and Taiwan, and only limited Big Planet products and services. The majority of our revenue in these markets comes from orders through our monthly product subscription program, which has led to improved retention of customers and distributors and has streamlined the ordering process. In China, we sell many of our Nu Skin products and a locally produced value line of personal care products under the Scion brand name. We also sell a select number of Pharmanex products, including LifePak, and we have Scanners in each of our approximately 150 retail stores. In 2006 we launched the S2 Scanner, and our g3 nutritional juice. We currently do not operate under our global direct selling business model in China as a result of regulatory restrictions on direct selling activities in this market. Consequently, we have developed a retail sales model that utilizes an employed sales force to sell products through fixed locations. We rely on the employed sales force to market and sell products at the various retail locations supported by only minimal advertising and traditional promotional efforts. Our retail model in China is largely based upon our ability to attract customers to our retail stores through our employed sales force, to educate them about our products through frequent training meetings, and to obtain repeat purchases from the sales employees and their customers. Our retail model only allows for product sales to be transacted within our retail stores. We currently have approximately 150 retail locations in operation. The compensation and salary of an employed sales representative is determined based on a variety of factors including the sales productivity of the sales representative and the other representatives he trains and supervises. While our distributor leaders from other markets are able to introduce customers and sales people to our stores, their promotional efforts are limited due to the restrictions on direct selling in this market. -10- We employed approximately 6,400 sales representatives in China as of December 31, 2006. Although we enter into labor contracts with all potential new sales representatives, only a small percentage complete the qualification process, become full-time sales representatives and continue as such for an extended period of time. We provide these potential new sales representatives with a minimum base pay and other labor benefits. In September of 2005, the Chinese government announced the adoption of new direct selling regulations that allow sales away from a fixed location through independent contractors, subject to various requirements and restrictions, including restrictions on the ability to pay multi-level compensation. In July of 2006, we received approval from the Chinese national government to conduct direct selling in Shanghai. We subsequently obtained the necessary local approvals and commenced direct selling activities in Shanghai in January 2007. We are now allowed to conduct larger training and promotional meetings in Shanghai and to engage an entry-level, non-employee sales force that can sell products away from fixed retail locations. Since the direct selling regulations prohibit the use of multi-level compensation plans, we compensate these independent contractors based on their personal selling efforts only. Our direct sales model is structured in a manner that we believe is complementary to our existing retail sales/employee sales representative model. Our independent direct sellers, for example, will have the opportunity to become employed sales representatives upon developing sales skills and a good customer base. We are currently in the process of seeking necessary approvals to expand our direct selling model into additional provinces throughout China. The licensing process includes a requirement that we establish “service centers” that will primarily be used to provide a product return location. We expect that our retail stores and offices will qualify as service centers, but we plan to add small service centers as necessary as the process unfolds. For a more detailed discussion regarding the direct selling approval process, please refer to the section below entitled, “Government Regulation – Direct Selling Activities”. For more information concerning the regulatory risks associated with our operations in China. Please refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors." Americas. The following table provides information on each of the markets in the North America region, including the year it was opened, 2006 revenue and the percentage of our total 2006 revenue for each market: (U.S. dollars in millions) Year Opened 2006 Revenue Percentage of 2006 Revenue United States 1984 $ 147.1 13% Canada 1990 $ 10.0 1% Latin America(1) 1990 $ 8.8 1% (1) Latin America includes Brazil, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico. -11- Substantially all of our Nu Skin and Pharmanex products, as well as our Big Planet products and services, are available for sale in the United States. In 2006 we introduced the S2 Scanner and the ProDerm Skin Analyzer in the United States. During 2006, we continued to invest in our Latin America business, opening Costa Rica early in the year. South Asia/Pacific. The following table provides information on each of the markets in the South Asia/Pacific region, including the year it was opened, 2006 revenue and the percentage of our total 2006 revenue for each market: (U.S. dollars in millions) Year Opened 2006 Revenue Percentage of 2006 Revenue Singapore/Malaysia/Brunei 2000/2001/2004 $ 33.2 3% Thailand 1997 $ 26.5 2% Australia/New Zealand 1993 $ 14.2 1% Indonesia 2005 $ 10.3 1% Philippines 1998 $ 3.8 —* * Less than 0.5% We offer a majority of our Pharmanex and Nu Skin products in South Asia/Pacific. Marketing initiatives in South Asia/Pacific have centered on monthly product subscription orders, the Scanner and our g3 nutritional drink. Europe. The following table provides information on our Europe region, including the year it was opened, revenue for 2006 and the percentage of our total 2006 revenue for the region: (U.S. dollars in millions) Year Opened 2006 Revenue Percentage of 2006 Revenue Europe(1) 1995 $ 59.5 5% (1) Europe includes Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Iceland, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. We currently operate in 19 countries throughout Northern, Eastern and Central Europe and offer a full range of Nu Skin, Pharmanex and Big Planet products. Various products and distributor tools have contributed to Europe’s recent success, including the Scanner, g3, and the Nu Skin® Galvanic Spa System II™. We have been experiencing strong growth in central European markets, and have benefited from recently opened markets in Russia, Israel, and Eastern Europe. In early 2007, we also opened operations in Switzerland with plans to continue investment in growth initiatives throughout Europe. -12- Distribution Overview. The foundation of our sales philosophy and distribution system is network marketing. We sell our products through independent distributors who are not employees, except in China where we sell our products through employed retail sales representatives. Our distributors generally purchase products from us for resale to consumers and for personal consumption. Network marketing is an effective vehicle to distribute our products because: • distributors can educate consumers about our products in person, which we believe is more effective for premium-quality, differentiated products than using television and print advertisements; • direct sales allow for actual product testing by potential customers; • there is greater opportunity for distributor and customer testimonials; and • as compared to other distribution methods, our distributors can provide customers higher levels of service and encourage repeat purchases. “Active distributors” under our global compensation plan are those distributors who have purchased products for resale or personal consumption during the previous three months. In addition, we have implemented “preferred customer” programs in many of our markets, which allow customers to purchase products—generally on a monthly product subscription basis—directly from us. We include preferred customers who have purchased products during the previous three months in our “active distributor” numbers. While preferred customers are legally very different from distributors, both are considered customers of our products. “Executive-level distributors” under our global compensation plan are those distributors who are most seriously pursuing the direct selling opportunity and must achieve and maintain specified personal and group sales volumes each month. Once an individual becomes an executive-level distributor, he or she can begin to take full advantage of the benefits of commission payments on personal and group sales volume. As a result of direct selling restrictions in China, we have implemented a modified business model utilizing retail stores and an employed sales force. (See the discussion on China in “Geographic Sales Regions.”) Employed full-time sales representatives are those sales representatives that have completed a qualification process. These sales representatives have a monthly volume commitment that is about 50% of the dollar amount of an executive-level distributor’s monthly volume commitment under our global compensation plan. Throughout this annual report, we include employed, full-time sales representatives in China in our “executive-level distributor” numbers in order to provide some level of comparison between our China model and our global direct selling model. -13- Our revenue is highly dependent upon the number and productivity of our distributors. Growth in sales volume requires an increase in the productivity and/or growth in the total number of distributors. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 761,000 active distributors of our products and services. Approximately 30,000 of these distributors were executive-level distributors. As of each of the dates indicated below, we had the following number of executive distributors in the referenced regions: Total Number of Executive Distributors by Region Region 2004 2005 2006 North Asia 16,637 16,129 15,354 Greater China 8,827 7,134 6,492 Americas 3,473 3,893 4,141 South Asia/Pacific 2,076 2,043 2,169 Europe 1,003 1,272 1,600 Total 32,016 30,471 29,756 Sponsoring. We rely on our distributors to recruit and sponsor new distributors of our products. While we provide Internet support, product samples, brochures, magazines and other sales materials at cost, distributors are primarily responsible for recruiting and educating new distributors with respect to products, our global compensation plan and how to build a successful distributorship. The sponsoring of new distributors creates multiple levels in a network marketing structure. Individuals that a distributor sponsors are referred to as “downline” or “sponsored” distributors. If downline distributors also sponsor new distributors, they create additional levels in the structure, but their downline distributors remain in the same downline network as their original sponsoring distributor. Sponsoring activities are not required of distributors and we do not pay any commissions for sponsoring new distributors. However, because of the financial incentives provided to those who succeed in building and mentoring a distributor network that resells and consumes products, many of our distributors attempt, with varying degrees of effort and success, to sponsor additional distributors. People often become distributors after using our products as regular customers. Once a person becomes a distributor, he or she is able to purchase products directly from us at wholesale prices. The distributor is also entitled to sponsor other distributors in order to build a network of distributors and product users. A potential distributor must enter into a standard distributor agreement, which obligates the distributor to abide by our policies and procedures. Global Compensation Plan. One of our competitive advantages is our global sales compensation plan. Under our global compensation plan, a distributor is paid consolidated monthly commissions in the distributor’s home country, in local currency, for the distributor’s own product sales and for product sales in that distributor’s downline distributor network across all geographic markets. Because of restrictions on direct selling in China, our full-time employed sales representatives there do not participate in the global compensation plan, but are instead compensated according to a retail sales model established for that market. Additionally, while global distributor leaders are compensated based on sales activity of preferred customers and sales employees in China, sales in China do not accrue to satisfy applicable sales volume requirements within the global compensation plan. Commissions on the sale of an individual Nu Skin or Pharmanex product can exceed 50% of the wholesale price. The actual payout percentage, however, varies depending on a distributor’s level within the global compensation plan. On a global basis, the overall payout on these products has typically averaged approximately 41% to 43%. We believe that our commission payout as a percentage of total sales is among the most generous paid by major direct selling companies. -14- From time to time, we make modifications and enhancements to our global compensation plan to help motivate distributors. In addition, we evaluate a limited number of distributor requests on a monthly basis for exceptions to the terms and conditions of the global compensation plan, including volume requirements. While our general policy is to discourage exceptions, we believe that the flexibility to grant exceptions is critical in retaining distributor loyalty and dedication. High Level of Distributor Incentives. Based upon management’s knowledge of our competitors’ distributor compensation plans, we believe our global compensation plan is among the most financially rewarding plans offered by leading direct selling companies. There are two fundamental ways in which our distributors can earn money: • through retail markups on sales of products purchased by distributors at wholesale; and • through a series of commissions on product sales. Each of our products carries a specified number of sales volume points. Commissions are based on total personal and group sales volume points per month. Sales volume points are generally based upon a product’s wholesale cost, net of any point-of-sale taxes. As a distributor’s business expands to successfully sponsoring other distributors into the business—who in turn expand their own businesses—a distributor receives a higher percentage of commissions. An executive’s commissions can increase substantially as multiple downline distributors achieve executive status. In determining commissions, the number of levels of downline distributors included in an executive’s commissionable group increases as the number of executive distributorships directly below the executive increases. Distributor Support. We are committed to providing high-level support services tailored to the needs of our distributors in each market. We attempt to meet the needs and build the loyalty of distributors by providing personalized distributor services and by maintaining a generous product return policy. Because the majority of our distributors are part time and have only a limited number of hours each week to concentrate on their business, we believe that maximizing a distributor’s efforts by providing effective distributor support has been, and will continue to be, important to our success. Through training meetings, distributor conventions, Web-based messages, distributor focus groups, regular telephone conference calls and other personal contacts with distributors, we seek to understand and satisfy the needs of our distributors. We provide walk-in, telephonic and computerized product fulfillment and tracking services that result in user-friendly, timely product distribution. Several of our walk-in retail centers maintain meeting rooms, which our distributors may utilize for training and sponsoring activities. Because of our efficient distribution system, we do not believe that most of our distributors maintain a significant inventory of our products. Rules Affecting Distributors. We closely monitor regulations and distributor activity in each market to ensure our distributors comply with local laws. Our published distributor policies and procedures establish the rules that distributors must follow in each market. We also monitor distributor activity to maintain a level playing field for our distributors, ensuring that some are not disadvantaged by the activities of others. We require our distributors to present products and business opportunities ethically and professionally. Distributors further agree that their presentations to customers must be consistent with, and limited to, the product claims and representations made in our literature. Distributors must represent to us that their receipt of commissions is based on retail sales and substantial personal sales efforts. We must produce or pre-approve all sales aids used by distributors such as videotapes, audiotapes, brochures and promotional clothing. Distributors may not use any form of media advertising to promote products. Products may be promoted only by personal contact or by literature produced or approved by us. Distributors may not use our trademarks or other intellectual property without our consent. -15- Except in China, products generally may not be sold, and our business opportunities may not be promoted, in traditional retail environments. We have made an exception to this rule by allowing some of our Pharmanex products to be sold in independently owned pharmacies and drug stores meeting specified requirements. Distributors who own or are employed by a service-related business—such as a doctor’s office, hair salon or health club—may make products available to regular customers as long as products are not displayed visibly to the general public in a manner to attract the general public into the establishment to purchase products. In order to qualify for commission bonuses, our distributors generally must satisfy specific requirements including achieving at least 100 points, which is approximately $100 in personal sales volume per month. In addition, individual markets may have requirements specific to that country based on regulatory concerns. For example, in the United States, distributors must also: • document retail sales or customer connections to established numbers of retail customers; and • sell and/or consume at least 80% of personal sales volume. We systematically review reports of alleged distributor misbehavior. If we determine one of our distributors has violated any of our policies or procedures, we may terminate the distributor’s rights completely. Alternatively, we may impose sanctions, such as warnings, probation, withdrawal or denial of an award, suspension of privileges of a distributorship, fines and/or withholding of commissions until specified conditions are satisfied, or other appropriate injunctive relief. Product Returns. We believe we are among the most consumer-protective companies in the direct selling industry. While the regulations and our operations vary somewhat from country to country, we generally follow a similar procedure for product returns. For 30 days from the date of purchase, our product return policy generally allows a retail customer to return any Nu Skin or Pharmanex product to us directly or to the distributor through whom the product was purchased for a full refund. After 30 days from the date of purchase, the end user’s return privilege is at the discretion of the distributor. Our distributors can generally return unused products directly to us for a 90% refund for one year. Through 2006, our experience with actual product returns averaged less than 5% of annual revenue. Payment. Distributors generally pay for products prior to shipment. Accordingly, we carry minimal accounts receivable. Distributors typically pay for products in cash, by wire transfer or by credit card. Cash, which represents a significant portion of all payments, is received by order takers in the distribution centers or retail stores in China when orders are placed. Competition Direct Selling Companies. We compete with other direct selling organizations, some of which have a longer operating history and higher visibility, name recognition and financial resources than we do. The leading direct selling companies in our existing markets are Avon and Alticor (Amway). We compete for new distributors on the strength of our multiple business opportunities, product offerings, global compensation plan, management, and our international operations. In order to successfully compete in this market and attract and retain distributors, we must maintain the attractiveness of our business opportunities to our distributors. -16- Nu Skin and Pharmanex Products. The markets for our Nu Skin and Pharmanex products are highly competitive. Our competitors include manufacturers and marketers of personal care and nutritional products, pharmaceutical companies and other direct selling organizations, many of which have longer operating histories and greater name recognition and financial resources than we do. We compete in these markets by emphasizing the innovation, value and premium quality of our products and the convenience of our distribution system. We focus on delivering a product offering with a “Measurable Difference” and provide our distributors with powerful tools that allow them to demonstrate the effectiveness of our nutritional and personal care products. Big Planet Products and Services. The markets for our Big Planet products and services are also highly competitive. Many of our competitors for these products and services have much greater name recognition and financial resources than we do. We compete in this market by delivering products that are more user friendly than those of our competitors, by developing unique features and product interfaces, by partnering with leading technology vendors whose competitive positioning can assist us and by leveraging our direct selling channel strengths. The market for technology and telecommunication products is very price sensitive, so we rely on our ability to acquire quality services from vendors at prices that allow our distributors to sell at competitive prices while still generating attractive commissions. Intellectual Property Our major trademarks are registered in the United States and in each country where we operate or have plans to operate, and we consider trademark protection to be very important to our business. Our major trademarks include Nu Skin, Pharmanex, Big Planet and LifePak. In addition, a number of our products and tools, including the Scanner, are based on proprietary technologies and formulations, some of which are patented or licensed from third parties. We also rely on trade secret protection to protect our proprietary formulas and know-how. Our business is not substantially dependent on any single licensed technology from any third party. Government Regulation Direct Selling Activities. Direct selling activities are regulated by various federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States and foreign countries. These laws and regulations are generally intended to prevent fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as “pyramid” schemes, that compensate participants for recruiting additional participants irrespective of product sales, use high-pressure recruiting methods and/or do not involve legitimate products. The laws and regulations in our current markets often: • impose cancellation/product return, inventory buy-backs and cooling-off rights for consumers and distributors; • require us or our distributors to register with governmental agencies; • impose reporting requirements; and • impose upon us requirements, such as requiring distributors to maintain levels of retail sales to qualify to receive commissions, to ensure that distributors are being compensated for sales of products and not for recruiting new distributors. -17- The laws and regulations governing direct selling are modified from time to time, and, like other direct selling companies, we are subject from time to time to government investigations in our various markets related to our direct selling activities. This can require us to make changes to our business model and aspects of our global compensation plan in the markets impacted by such changes and investigations. Based on research conducted in existing markets, the nature and scope of inquiries from government regulatory authorities and our history of operations in those markets to date, we believe our method of distribution complies in all material respects with the laws and regulations related to direct selling of the countries in which we currently operate. The Federal Trade Commission in the United States has recently proposed new regulations which would impose additional disclosure requirements and waiting periods before a person could sign up to become a distributor. The direct selling industry association has filed comments objecting to many of the restrictive and burdensome requirements in these proposed regulations and is working to get the FTC to change its proposal. As a result of restrictions in China on direct selling activities, we have implemented a retail store model utilizing an employed sales force. The regulatory environment in China is complex. Because we operate a direct selling model outside of China, our operations in China have attracted significant regulatory and media scrutiny since we expanded our operations there in January 2003. Regulations are subject to discretionary interpretation by municipal and provincial level regulators. Interpretations of what constitutes permissible activities by regulators can vary from province to province and can change from time to time because of the lack of clarity in the rules regarding direct selling activities. China recently adopted new direct selling and anti-pyramiding regulations that are restrictive and contain various limitations, including a restriction on the ability to pay multi-level compensation to independent distributors. Because of the Chinese government’s significant concerns about direct selling activities, it scrutinizes very closely activities of direct selling companies. The scrutiny has increased following adoption of the new direct selling and anti-pyramiding regulations and our business continues to be subject to reviews and investigations by municipal and provincial level regulators. At times, investigations and related actions by government regulators have impeded our ability to conduct business in certain locations, and have resulted in a few cases in fines being paid by our company. In each of these cases, we have been allowed to recommence operations after the government’s investigation, and no material changes to our business model were required in connection with these fines and impediments. We also expect to receive continued guidance and direction from regulators to address necessary to comply with the new direct selling regulations. Please refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for more information on the regulatory risks associated with our business in China. In July of 2006, we received national governmental approval to conduct direct selling in Shanghai. In January of 2007, we obtained necessary local approvals and commenced direct selling in eight districts within Shanghai. During the next few quarters we will be focusing our efforts on expanding our direct selling model into other provinces throughout China. Because direct selling was only recently authorized in Mainland China, the regulatory environment with respect to direct selling in this market remains fluid and the process for obtaining the necessary governmental approvals to conduct direct selling continues to evolve. The regulations and processes in some circumstances have been interpreted differently by different governmental authorities. In order to expand our direct selling model into additional provinces we currently must obtain a series of approvals from the Departments of Commerce in such provinces, the Shanghai Department of Commerce (Nu Skin China’s supervisory authority), as well as the Departments of Commerce in each city and district in which we plan to operate. We also are required to obtain the approval of the State Ministry of Commerce, which is the national governmental authority overseeing direct selling. Please refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for more information on the risks associated with our planned expansion of direct selling in China; -18- As we are being required to work with such a large number of provincial, city, district and national governmental authorities, we have found that it is taking more time than anticipated to work through the approval process with these authorities. These authorities have broad discretion in interpreting the regulations and granting necessary approvals. A delay in obtaining approvals at one level can delay our ability to obtain approvals at the next level. In addition, we have received some indications from the national government authorities that they intend to review and monitor the operations of an approved direct selling company during an evaluation period before granting approvals to such company to expand into additional provinces as regulators continue to closely monitor the development of direct selling in China. The complexity of the approval process as well as the government’s continued cautious approach as direct selling develops in China makes it difficult to predict the timeline for obtaining these approvals. Please refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for more information on the risks that these regulations could have on our business. Regulation of Our Products. Our Nu Skin and Pharmanex products and related promotional and marketing activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation by numerous domestic and foreign governmental agencies and authorities, including the FDA, the FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the United States Department of Agriculture, State Attorneys General and other state regulatory agencies in the United States, and the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan and similar government agencies in each market in which we operate. For example, in Japan, the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare requires us to have an import business license and to register each personal care product imported into Japan. In Taiwan, all “medicated” cosmetic and pharmaceutical products require registration. In China, personal care products are placed into one of two categories, “general” and “drug.” Products in both categories require submission of formulas and other information with the health authorities, and drug products require human clinical studies. The product registration process in China for these products can take from nine to more than 18 months. Such regulations in any given market can limit our ability to import products and can delay product launches as we go through the registration and approval process for those products. The sale of cosmetic products is regulated in the European Union under the European Union Cosmetics Directive, which requires a uniform application for foreign companies making personal care product sales. Our Pharmanex products are subject to various regulations promulgated by government agencies in the markets in which we operate. In the United States, laboratory analysis by governmental authorities, and the product registration process for these products are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration. Since these products are regulated as “foods” under the Dietary Supplement and Health Education Act, we are generally not required to obtain regulatory approval prior to introducing a product into the United States market. None of this infringes, however, upon the FDA’s power to remove an unsafe substance from the market. In our foreign markets, the products are generally regulated by similar government agencies, such as the Ministry of Health and Welfare in Japan and the Department of Health in Taiwan. We typically market our Pharmanex products in international markets as foods or health foods under applicable regulatory regimes. In the event a product, or an ingredient in a product, is classified as a drug or pharmaceutical product in any market, we will generally not be able to distribute that product in that market through our distribution channel because of strict restrictions applicable to drug and pharmaceutical products. China has some of the most restrictive nutritional supplement product regulations. Products marketed as “health foods” are subject to extensive laboratory analysis by governmental authorities, and the product registration process for these products takes approximately two years. We market both “health foods” and “general foods” in China. Our flagship product, LifePak, is currently marketed as a general food with only one of the three main capsules having received “health food” classification. Currently, “general foods” is not an approved category for direct selling; therefore, we will only market LifePak through our retail stores until final “health food” classification for LifePak is obtained for the two other capsules. Additionally, there is some risk associated with the common practice in China of marketing a product as a “general food” while seeking “health food” classification. If government officials feel our categorization of our products is inconsistent with product claims, ingredients or function, this could limit our ability to market such products in China in their current form. -19- The markets in which we operate all have varied regulations that distinguish foods and nutritional health supplements from “drugs” or “pharmaceutical products.” Because of the varied regulations, some products or ingredients that are considered a “food” in certain markets may be treated as a “pharmaceutical” in other markets. In Japan, for example, if a specified ingredient is not listed as a “food” by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, we must either modify the product to eliminate or substitute that ingredient, or petition the government to treat such ingredient as a food. We experience similar issues in our other markets. As a result, we must often modify the ingredients and/or the levels of ingredients in our products for certain markets. In some circumstances, the regulations in foreign markets may require us to obtain regulatory approval prior to introduction of a new product. Because of negative publicity associated with some supplements, such as “ephedra” (which we have never marketed) and other potentially harmful ingredients, there has been an increased movement in the United States and other markets to expand the regulation of dietary supplements, which could impose additional restrictions or requirements in the future. Most of our major markets also regulate advertising and product claims regarding the efficacy of products. This is particularly true with respect to our dietary supplements because we typically market them as foods or health foods. Accordingly, these regulations can limit our ability to inform consumers of the full benefits of our products. For example, in the United States, we are unable to claim that any of our nutritional supplements will diagnose, cure, mitigate, treat or prevent disease. In most of our foreign markets we are not able to make any “medicinal” claims with respect to our Pharmanex products. In the United States, the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act, however, permits substantiated, truthful and non-misleading statements of nutritional support to be made in labeling, such as statements describing general well-being resulting from consumption of a dietary ingredient or the role of a nutrient or dietary ingredient in affecting or maintaining a structure or a function of the body. Most of the other markets in which we operate have not adopted similar legislation and we may be subject to more restrictive limitations on the claims we can make about our products in these markets. For example, in Japan, our nutritional supplements are marketed as food products, which significantly limits our ability to make any claims regarding these products. In addition, all product claims must be substantiated. To date, we have not experienced any difficulty maintaining our import licenses. However, due to the varied regulations governing the manufacture and sale of nutritional products in the various markets, we have found it necessary to reformulate many of our products or develop new products in order to comply with such local requirements. In the United States, we are also subject to a consent decree with the FTC and various state regulatory agencies arising out of investigations that occurred in the early 1990s of certain alleged unsubstantiated product and earnings claims made by our distributors. The consent decree requires us to, among other things, supplement our procedures to enforce our policies, not allow our distributors to make earnings representations without making certain average earnings disclosures, and not allow our distributors to make unsubstantiated product claims. -20- Regulation of Our Business Tools. One of our strategies is to develop technologically-advanced business tools designed to help our distributors effectively market our Nu Skin and Pharmanex products. For example, during the last several years we have introduced the Scanner in many of our markets around the world. We have also launched an initial version of the ProDerm Skin Analyzer in the United States and Europe in 2006, and we are planning a global launch of an enhanced version of this tool starting in late 2007. These tools are subject to the regulations of various health, consumer protection and other governmental authorities around the world. These regulations vary from market to market and affect whether our business tools are required to be registered as medical devices, the claims that can be made with respect to these tools, who can use them and where they can be used. We have been subject to regulatory inquiries in the United States, Japan and other countries with respect to the status of the Scanner as a non-medical device. Any determination that medical device clearance is required could require us to expend significant time and resources in order to meet the stringent standards imposed on medical device companies. We are also subject to regulatory constraints on the claims that can be made with respect to the use of our business tools. In Japan, for example, we are limited in our ability to tie the Scanner measurement directly to the consumption of our nutrition products. We expect to face similar regulatory issues in Japan and other markets with respect to the ProDerm Skin Analyzer in the event we decide to launch this tool in these markets. Other Regulatory Issues. As a United States entity operating through subsidiaries in foreign jurisdictions, we are subject to foreign exchange control, transfer pricing and custom laws that regulate the flow of funds between us and our subsidiaries and for product purchases, management services and contractual obligations, such as the payment of distributor commissions. As is the case with most companies that operate in our product categories, we receive from time to time inquiries from government regulatory authorities regarding the nature of our business and other issues, such as compliance with local direct selling, transfer pricing, customs, taxation, foreign exchange control, securities and other laws. Negative publicity resulting from inquiries into our operations by United States and state government agencies in the early 1990s, stemming in part from alleged inappropriate product and earnings claims by distributors, and in the late 1990s resulting from adverse media attention in South Korea, harmed our business. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 11,360 full- and part-time employees worldwide, approximately 6,400 of whom are employed as sales representatives in our China operations. We also had labor contracts with approximately 3,400 potential new sales representatives in China, only a small percentage of whom are expected to complete the qualification process and become full-time sales representatives. None of our employees are represented by a union or other collective bargaining group, with the exception of the limited number of employees involved in our operations in Brazil. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good, and we do not foresee a shortage in qualified personnel necessary to operate our business. Available Information Our Internet address is www.nuskinenterprises.com. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. -21- Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Certain statements made in this filing under the caption “Item 1- Business” are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). In addition, when used in this Report the words or phrases “will likely result,” “expect,” “intend,” “will continue,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “believe” and similar expressions are intended to identify “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements include plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans and objectives relating to our products and future economic performance in countries where we operate. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on certain assumptions that may not be realized. Actual results and outcomes may differ materially from those discussed or anticipated. We assume no responsibility or obligation to update these statements to reflect any changes. The forward-looking statements and associated risks set forth herein relate to, among other things: • our plans to launch or continue to roll out or promote various products, tools, and initiatives, including the S2 Scanner and the ProDerm Skin Analyzer ; • the expectation that our relationship with our current primary suppliers will not end in the near term, and the belief that we could produce or source our personal care products from other suppliers and expand manufacturing capabilities in China, and replace our primary suppliers of Pharmanex products without great difficulty or increased cost; • our belief that we can produce sufficient Scanners in our manufacturing facility in China to support current and anticipated future market demands; • our plans to continue to develop and introduce new, innovative products and to improve and evolve our existing product formulations; • our plans to commit resources to research and development in the future; • our belief that providing effective distributor support will be important to our success; • our plans to further expand our direct selling model throughout China, including our expectation that our retail stores will qualify as “service” centers and our plans to add service centers throughout China as necessary; and • our belief that we do not currently foresee a shortage in qualified personnel necessary to operate our business. These and other forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties including those described below under “Risk Factors” and in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” -22- ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a number of substantial risks. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and they should be considered in connection with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors should be read together with the other items in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” Currency exchange rate fluctuations could lower our revenue and net income. In 2006 we recognized approximately 87% of our revenue in markets outside of the United States in each market’s respective local currency. We purchase inventory primarily in the United States in U.S. dollars. In preparing our financial statements, we translate revenue and expenses in foreign countries from their local currencies into U.S. dollars using weighted-average exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, particularly the Japanese yen inasmuch as we generated approximately 43% of our 2006 revenue in Japan, our reported revenue, gross profit and net income will likely be reduced. During the last couple of years we have experienced an overall weakening of the Japanese yen, which has harmed our results. Given the global, complex political and economic dynamics that affect exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot estimate future fluctuations and the effect these fluctuations may have upon future reported results or our overall financial condition. In the event the Japanese yen or other foreign currencies weaken further, our results in 2007 would be negatively impacted. Although we attempt to reduce our exposure to short-term exchange rate fluctuations by using foreign currency exchange rate contracts for the Japanese yen, we cannot be certain these contracts or any other hedging activity will effectively reduce exchange rate exposure. Because our Japanese operations account for a significant part of our business, adverse changes in our business operations in Japan would harm our business. Approximately 43% of our 2006 revenue was generated in Japan. We have experienced declines in our business in this market during the past 18 months, and many of our competitors have seen their businesses in this market contract in the last few years. We believe our operating results have been negatively impacted by a variety of factors, including the unanticipated impact of compensation plan changes, regulatory issues, and production difficulties. Our financial results would be harmed and our business could continue to decline if our products, business opportunity or planned growth initiatives do not retain and generate continued interest and enthusiasm among our distributors and consumers in this market. We have implemented several initiatives, including the launch of the second generation BioPhotonic Scanner and compensation plan changes, and have other initiatives planned to help renew growth in this market. If these and other planned initiatives are delayed, are impacted by regulatory constraints or do not generate distributor excitement or attract new distributors or customers in Japan, it may limit our prospects for renewed growth in that market and harm our financial results. For example, we have elected to wait until we have completed an enhanced version of the Nu Skin® ProDerm™ Skin Analyzer before implementing this initiative in Japan, which likely will not occur until at least the latter part of 2007. While we believe that we will be able to use the ProDerm Skin Analyzer in Japan to provide before and after pictures for consumers to demonstrate the effectiveness of our products, the manner in which the ProDerm may be used will be subject to significant restrictions in this market. There is also a risk that regulators could prohibit our use of the ProDerm in this market if they believe our distributors are or will use it to conduct skin analysis of their customers, or make medical claims or product recommendations based on the use of the ProDerm. If we are unable to retain our existing independent distributors and recruit additional distributors, our revenue will not increase and may even decline. We distribute almost all of our products through our independent distributors (and China sales representatives) and we depend on them to generate virtually all of our revenue. Our distributors may terminate their services at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience high turnover among distributors from year to year. As a result, in order to maintain sales and increase sales in the future, we need to continue to retain existing distributors and recruit additional distributors. To increase our revenue, we must increase the number of and/or the productivity of our distributors. -23- We have experienced periodic declines in both active distributors and executive distributors in the past. The number of our active and executive distributors may not increase and could decline again in the future. While we take many steps to help train, motivate and retain distributors, we cannot accurately predict how the number and productivity of distributors may fluctuate because we rely primarily upon our distributor leaders to recruit, train and motivate new distributors. Our operating results could be harmed if we and our distributor leaders do not generate sufficient interest in our business to retain existing distributors and attract new distributors. The number and productivity of our distributors also depends on several additional factors, including: • any adverse publicity regarding us, our products, our distribution channel or our competitors; • a lack of interest in, or the technical failure of, existing or new products; • lack of a sponsoring story that effectively draws new people into the business; • the public's perception of our products and their ingredients; • the public's perception of our distributors and direct selling businesses in general; • our actions to enforce our policies and procedures; • general economic and business conditions; and • potential saturation or maturity levels in a given country or market which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain distributors in such market. Our operating results could be adversely affected if our existing and new business opportunities and incentives, products, business tools and other initiatives do not generate sufficient enthusiasm and economic incentive to retain our existing distributors or to sponsor new distributors on a sustained basis. In addition, in our mature markets, one of the challenges we face is keeping distributor leaders with established businesses and high income levels motivated and actively engaged in business building activities and developing new distributor leaders. There can be no assurance that our initiatives such as the Scanner and others will generate excitement among our distributors in the long-term or that planned initiatives will be successful in maintaining distributor activity and productivity or in motivating distributor leaders to remain engaged in business building and developing new distributor leaders. In addition, some initiatives may have unanticipated negative impacts on our markets. For example, during the past couple of years certain modifications we made to compensation incentives in China, Japan and certain Southeast Asia markets were not received or understood well by some distributors, resulting in unanticipated negative impacts on distributor numbers and revenue in these markets. The introduction of a new product or key initiative such as the Scanner and g3 can also negatively impact other product lines to the extent our distributor leaders focus their efforts on the new product or initiative. -24- Our operations in China are subject to significant governmental scrutiny and may be harmed by the results of such scrutiny. Because of the government’s significant concerns about direct selling activities, government regulators in China scrutinize very closely activities of direct selling companies or activities that resemble direct selling. This scrutiny has increased following adoption of the new direct selling and anti-pyramiding regulations. The regulatory environment in China with regards to direct selling is evolving, and officials in multiple national and local levels in the Chinese government often exercise significant discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply applicable regulations. In the past, the government has taken significant actions against companies that the government found were engaging in direct selling activities in violation of applicable law, including shutting down their businesses and imposing substantial fines. Our business in China has been subject to significant governmental scrutiny over the last few years, and reviews and investigations by government regulators have at times impeded our ability to conduct business and have resulted in several cases in fines being paid by us, which in the aggregate have been less than 1% of our revenue in China. We continue to be subject to current governmental reviews and investigations, and we may incur similar or more severe sanctions in the future. Occasionally, we have also been asked to cease sales activity in some stores while the regulators review our operations. While, in each of these cases, we have been allowed to recommence operations after the government’s review without material changes to our operations, there is no assurance that this will always be the case. Even though we have now obtained approval to conduct direct selling in Shanghai, government regulators continue to scrutinize our activities and the activities of our distributors and sales employees to monitor our compliance with the new regulations and other applicable regulations as we implement direct selling into our business model. At times, complaints made by our sales representatives to the government have resulted in increased scrutiny by the government. Any determination that our operations or activities, or the activities of our employed sales representatives or distributors, are not in compliance with applicable regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, extended interruptions of business, termination of necessary licenses and permits, including our direct selling approvals, or restrictions on our ability to open new stores or obtain approvals for service centers or expand into new locations, or other actions, all of which would harm our business. If recently adopted direct selling regulations in China are interpreted or enforced by governmental authorities in a manner that negatively impacts our retail business model or our dual business model there, our business in China could be harmed. Towards the end of 2005, Chinese regulators adopted anti-pyramiding and new direct selling regulations. These regulations contain significant restrictions and limitations, including a restriction on multi-level compensation for independent distributors selling away from a fixed location. The regulations also impose various requirements on individuals before they can become direct sellers, including the passage of an examination, which are more burdensome than in our other markets and which could negatively impact the willingness of some people to sign up to become direct sellers. These new regulations are not yet well understood, and there continues to be some confusion and uncertainty as to the meaning of the new regulations and their scope, and the specific types of restrictions and requirements imposed under them. It is difficult to predict how regulators will interpret and enforce these new regulations and the impact of these new regulations on pending regulatory reviews and investigations. Our business and our growth prospects would be harmed if Chinese regulators interpret the anti-pyramiding regulations or direct selling regulations as applying to our retail store/employed sales representative business model, or if regulations are interpreted in such a manner that our current method of conducting business through the use of employed sales representatives or our implementation of direct selling that is currently underway is found to violate applicable regulations. In particular, our business would be harmed by any determination that our current method of compensating our sales employees, including our use of the sales productivity of a sales employee and the group of sales employees whom he or she trains and supervises as one of the factors in establishing such sales employee’s salary and compensation, violates the restriction on multi-level compensation in the new regulations. Our business could also be harmed if regulators inhibit our ability to concurrently operate our retail store/employed sales representative business model and our direct selling business. -25- Although we have obtained approval to conduct direct selling in China, our current governmental approval only allows us to conduct direct selling in eight districts within Shanghai. If we are unable to obtain additional necessary national and local governmental approvals as quickly as we would like, our ability to expand our direct selling business and grow our business there could be negatively impacted. In January 2007, we completed the required national and local licensing process and commenced direct selling activities in eight districts in Shanghai. In order to expand our direct selling model into additional provinces, we currently must obtain a series of approvals from district, city, provincial and national governmental agencies with respect to each province in which we wish to expand. The approval process includes a requirement that we establish “service centers” that serve primarily as product return locations. If regulators fail to permit us to build service centers at a rate that meets our growth demands, this could limit our ability to obtain direct selling approvals in accordance with anticipated timelines. Because direct selling was only recently authorized in China, the process for obtaining the necessary governmental approvals to conduct direct selling continues to evolve. As we are being required to work with such a large number of provincial, city, district and national governmental authorities, we have found that it is taking more time than anticipated to work through the approval process with these authorities. These authorities have broad discretion in interpreting the regulations and granting necessary approvals. The regulations and processes in some circumstances have been interpreted differently by different governmental authorities. A delay in obtaining approvals at one level can delay our ability to obtain approvals at the next level. In addition, we have received some indications from the national government authorities that they intend to review and monitor the operations of an approved direct selling company during an evaluation period before granting approvals to such company to expand into additional provinces as regulators continue to closely monitor the development of direct selling in China. The complexity of the approval process as well as the government’s continued cautious approach as direct selling develops in China makes it difficult to predict the timeline for obtaining these approvals. If the results of the government’s evaluation of our direct selling activities in Shanghai results in further delays in obtaining licenses elsewhere, or if the current processes for obtaining approvals are delayed further for any reason or are changed or are interpreted differently than currently understood, our ability to expand direct selling in China and our growth prospects in this market could be negatively impacted as a result. Because we will be implementing a compensation plan and business model for our independent distributors in China that is different from other markets due to regulatory restrictions, this could harm our ability to grow our business in China. The direct selling regulations impose various limitations and requirements, including a prohibition on multi-level compensation and a requirement that all distributors pass a required examination before becoming a distributor. The regulations also impose other restrictions on direct selling activities that differ from the regulations in our other markets. As a result, we are implementing a direct selling compensation plan and business model for the direct sales component of our business that differs from the model we use in other markets. There can be no assurance that these restrictions will not negatively impact our ability to provide an attractive business opportunity to distributors in this market and limit our ability to grow our business in this market. In addition, the regulations do not allow the sale of general foods through a direct selling business model. Because some of our supplements, including LifePak, are being marketed as general foods until we obtain health food status for these products, we will only be able to sell these products at our stores and not away from the stores until they receive health food status, which could have a negative impact on our direct selling business. -26- Intellectual property rights are difficult to enforce in China. Chinese commercial law is relatively undeveloped compared to most of our other major markets, and, as a result, we may have limited legal recourse in the event we encounter significant difficulties with patent or trademark infringers. Limited protection of intellectual property is available under Chinese law, and the local manufacturing of our products may subject us to an increased risk that unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our product formulations. As a result, we cannot assure that we will be able to adequately protect our product formulations. If the BioPhotonic Scanner is determined to be a medical device in a particular geographic market or if our distributors use it for medical diagnostic purposes, this could harm our ability to utilize it. In March 2003, the FDA questioned the status of the BioPhotonic Scanner as a non-medical device. We subsequently filed an application with the FDA to have it classified as a non-medical device. The FDA has not yet acted on our application. There are various factors that could determine whether the BioPhotonic Scanner is a medical device including the claims that we or our distributors make about it. We have faced similar uncertainties and regulatory issues in other markets with respect to the status of the BioPhotonic Scanner as a non-medical device and the claims that can be made in using it. For example, during the past couple of years we have faced regulatory inquiries in Japan, Korea, Singapore and Thailand regarding distributor claims with respect to the Scanner. There have also been recent legislative proposals in Singapore and Malaysia relating to the regulation of medical devices which could have an impact on the Scanner. We recently had two Scanners detained by the FDA office in Cincinnati that were being shippped back from Israel, and the office has asked us for documentation regarding its status as a non-medical device. A determination in any of these markets that the Scanner is a medical device or that distributors are using it to make medical claims or perform medical diagnoses could negatively impact our plans for or use of the BioPhotonic Scanner in such market. In 2006 we obtained additional contract rights to utilize the Scanner in all locations, including health care and medical facilities. Some of our distributors are now promoting the use of Scanners by medical professionals as a non-medical device in conjunction with wellness programs. This promotion could result in enhanced FDA scrutiny and increase the risk that the BioPhotonic Scanner be treated as a medical device requiring medical device clearance. Regulatory scrutiny of the Scanner may also dampen distributor enthusiasm and hinder the ability of distributors to effectively utilize the Scanner. In the event medical device clearance is required in any market, obtaining clearance could require us to provide documentation concerning its clinical utility and to make some modifications to its design, specifications and manufacturing process in order to meet stringent standards imposed on medical device companies. There can be no assurance we would be able to provide such documentation and make such changes promptly or in a manner that is satisfactory to regulatory authorities. Technical and regulatory issues associated with the second generation BioPhotonic Scanner and the Nu Skin® ProDerm™ Skin Analyzer could negatively impact the success of these programs, which could harm our business. Our current and planned initiatives surrounding the continued rollout and promotion of the S2 Scanner and the introduction of Nu Skin® ProDerm™ Skin Analyzer in our various markets are subject to technical and regulatory risks and uncertainties. The S2 was just introduced this past year, and we cannot be certain that over the long term the units will consistently perform according to expectations or that we will not experience technical problems. We have experienced challenges in our development of the ProDerm™ tool, including some software glitches in beta units that were tested in some Asia markets. As we continue to work through these technical issues, we elected to introduce an initial version that has fewer features than we initially anticipated. The initial version of this tool that we launched in the United States and Europe provides close-up skin images that enables distributors to demonstrate the effectiveness of our skin care products. We are currently working on the development of an enhanced version that will have improved functionality. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to successfully develop an enhanced version of this tool in accordance with our expectations. In addition, we are subject to regulatory risks with respect to the introduction of this tool, particularly in Japan, where it appears that regulatory restrictions in Japan may impose limitations on the use of this tool and on claims that may be made in connection with its use. Such limitations in Japan or any other markets could weaken the ability of our distributors to utilize this tool in building their businesses, and could dampen distributor enthusiasm surrounding it. -27- Governmental regulations relating to the marketing and advertising of our products and services, in particular our nutritional supplements, may restrict or inhibit our ability to sell these products. Our products and our related marketing and advertising efforts are subject to extensive governmental regulations by numerous domestic and foreign governmental agencies and authorities. These include the FDA, the FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Department of Agriculture in the United States, State Attorneys General and other state regulatory agencies and the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan along with similar governmental agencies in other foreign markets where we operate. Our markets have varied regulations concerning product formulation, labeling, packaging and importation. These laws and regulations often require us to, among other things: • reformulate products for a specific market to meet the specific product formulation laws of that country; • conform product labeling to the regulations in each country; and • register or qualify products with the applicable governmental authority or obtain necessary approvals or file necessary notifications for the marketing of our products. Restrictions on our ability to introduce products, or delays in introducing products, could reduce revenue and decrease profitability. Regulators also may prohibit us from making therapeutic claims about products, regardless of the existence of research and independent studies that may support such claims. These product claim restrictions could prevent us from realizing the potential revenue from some of our products. Changes to our compensation arrangements with our distributors could be viewed negatively by some distributors and could harm our operating results if such changes impact distributor productivity. We have implemented a global compensation plan that has some components that differ from market to market. We modify components of our compensation plan from time to time in an attempt to keep our compensation plan competitive and attractive to existing and potential distributors, to address changing market dynamics, to provide incentives to distributors that we believe will help grow our business, and to address other business needs. Because of the size of our distributor force and the complexity of our compensation plans, it is difficult to predict whether such changes will achieve their desired results. For example, in 2005, we made changes to our compensation plan in Japan that had been successful in other markets, but did not have the impact in Japan that we anticipated and negatively impacted our business. China and certain markets in Southeast Asia similarly were negatively impacted by compensation plan changes in 2005. We are currently implementing a new compensation plan for China for our independent distributors as we implement a direct selling model. We are also making some modifications to our employed sales representative compensation model to simplify it and to make it complementary to the compensation model we are implementing for the independent distributor sales force. In addition, because of the size and complexity of our sales force and compensation plan, growth in certain markets and changes to our plans have caused compensation rates in these markets to rise higher than historical levels, which could reduce our operating income. Although management’s objective is to maximize the benefit of compensation plan expenses, compensation plan changes may be made in the future in these markets with higher compensation rates in order to maintain overall payout as close to historical levels as possible. We cannot be certain that the modifications we are making in China or any other modifications we make to our compensation plans in our other markets will be well received or achieve their desired results. If our distributors fail to adapt to these changes or find them unattractive, our business could be harmed. -28- Negative publicity concerning supplements with certain controversial ingredients has spurred efforts to change existing laws and regulations with respect to nutritional supplements that, if successful, could result in more restrictive and burdensome regulations. There has been an increasing movement in the United States and other markets to increase the regulation of dietary supplements which could impose additional restrictions or requirements in the future. This movement has been generated, in part, by negative publicity arising from injuries and deaths alleged to be caused by nutritional supplements containing ephedra (which we have never sold) and other controversial ingredients. We are committed to not market nutritional supplements that contain any substances such as ephedra that are controversial and that could pose health risks. However, our operations could be harmed if governmental laws or regulations are enacted that restrict the ability of companies to market or distribute nutritional supplements or impose additional burdens or requirements on nutritional supplement companies. If we are unable to successfully expand and grow operations within our recently opened and developing markets, we may have difficulty achieving our long-term objectives. A significant percentage of our revenue growth over the past decade has been attributable to our expansion into new markets. For example, the revenue growth we experienced in 2003 and 2004 was due in part to our successful expansion of operations into China. Our growth over the next several years depends in part on our ability to successfully introduce products and tools, and to successfully implement initiatives in our new and developing markets, including China, Russia, Latin America and Eastern Europe that will help generate growth. In addition to the regulatory difficulties we may face in introducing our products, tools, and initiatives in these markets, we could face difficulties in achieving acceptance of our premium-priced products in developing markets. In the past, we have struggled to operate successfully in developing country markets, such as Latin America. This may also be the case in Eastern Europe and the other new markets into which we have recently expanded. If we are unable to successfully expand our operations within these new markets, our opportunities to grow our business may be limited, and, as a result, we may not be able to achieve our long-term objectives. Global political issues and conflicts could harm our business. Because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States, our business is subject to global political issues and conflicts, including terrorism threats, tensions related to North Korea, political tensions between the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan, and other issues. If these conflicts or issues escalate, or if there is increased anti-American sentiment, this could harm our foreign operations. In addition, changes and actions by governments in foreign markets, in particular those markets such as China where capitalism and free market trading is still evolving, could harm our business. -29- Adverse publicity concerning our business, marketing plan or products could harm our business and reputation. The size of our distribution force and the results of our operations can be particularly impacted by adverse publicity regarding us, the nature of our distributor network, our products or the actions of our distributors. Specifically, we are susceptible to adverse publicity concerning: • suspicions about the legality and ethics of network marketing; • the ingredients or safety of our or our competitors' products; • regulatory investigations of us, our competitors and our respective products; • the actions of our current or former distributors; and • public perceptions of direct selling businesses generally. In addition, in the past we have experienced negative publicity that has harmed our business in connection with regulatory investigations and inquiries. We may receive negative publicity in the future, and it may harm our business and reputation. Although our distributors are independent contractors, improper distributor actions that violate laws or regulations could harm our business. Distributor activities in our existing markets that violate governmental laws or regulations could result in governmental actions against us in markets where we operate. Except in China, our distributors are not employees and act independently of us. We implement strict policies and procedures to ensure our distributors will comply with legal requirements. However, given the size of our distributor force, we experience problems with distributors from time to time. For example, product claims made by some of our distributors in 1990 and 1991 led to an investigation by the FTC in the United States, which resulted in our entering into a consent decree with the FTC as described below. In addition, recent rulings by the Korean FTC and by judicial authorities against us and other companies in Korea indicate that vicarious liability may be imposed on us for the criminal activity of our independent distributors. Inability of new products to gain distributor and market acceptance could harm our business. A critical component of our business is our ability to develop new products that create enthusiasm among our distributor force. If we are unable to introduce new products planned for introduction, our distributor productivity could be harmed. In addition, if any new products fail to gain market acceptance, are restricted by regulatory requirements or have quality problems, this would harm our results of operations. Factors that could affect our ability to continue to introduce new products include, among others, government regulations, the inability to attract and retain qualified research and development staff, the termination of third-party research and collaborative arrangements, proprietary protections of competitors that may limit our ability to offer comparable products and the difficulties in anticipating changes in consumer tastes and buying preferences. Government inquiries, investigations, and actions could harm our business. From time to time, we receive formal and informal inquiries from various government regulatory authorities about our business and our compliance with local laws and regulations. Any determination that we or our distributors are not in compliance with existing laws or regulations could potentially harm our business. Even if governmental actions do not result in rulings or orders, they potentially could create negative publicity which could detrimentally affect our efforts to recruit or motivate distributors and attract customers and, consequently, reduce revenue and net income. -30- In the early 1990s, we entered into voluntary consent agreements with the FTC and a few state regulatory agencies relating to investigations of our distributors’ product claims and practices. These investigations centered on alleged unsubstantiated product and earnings claims made by some of our distributors. We believe that the negative publicity generated by this FTC action, as well as a subsequent action in the mid-1990s related to unsubstantiated product claims, harmed our business and results of operations in the United States. Pursuant to the consent decrees, we agreed, among other things, to supplement our procedures to enforce our policies, to not allow distributors to make earnings representations without making additional disclosures relating to average earnings and to not make, or allow our distributors to make, product claims that were not substantiated. We have taken various actions, including implementing a more generous inventory buy-back policy, publishing average distributor earnings information, supplementing our procedures for enforcing our policies, and reviewing distributor product sales aids, to address the issues raised by the FTC and state agencies in these investigations. As a result of the previous investigations, the FTC makes inquiries from time to time regarding our compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our consent decree. Any further actions by the FTC or other comparable state or federal regulatory agencies, in the United States or abroad, could have a further negative impact on us in the future. In addition, we are susceptible to government-initiated campaigns that do not rise to the level of formal regulations. For example, the South Korean government, several South Korean trade groups and members of the South Korean media initiated campaigns in 1997 and 1998 urging South Korean consumers not to purchase luxury or foreign goods. We believe that these campaigns and the related media attention they received, together with the economic recession that occurred in the late 1990s in the South Korean economy, significantly harmed our South Korean business. We cannot assure that similar government, trade group or media actions will not occur again in South Korea or in other countries where we operate or that such events will not similarly harm our operations. The loss of key high-level distributors could negatively impact our distributor growth and our revenue. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 761,000 active independent distributors, sales representatives and preferred customers, including approximately 30,000 executive level distributors or full-time sales representatives. Approximately 453 distributors occupied the highest distributor level under our global compensation plan as of that date. These distributors, together with their extensive networks of downline distributors, account for substantially all of our revenue. As a result, the loss of a high-level distributor or a group of leading distributors in the distributor’s network of downline distributors, whether by their own choice or through disciplinary actions by us for violations of our policies and procedures, could negatively impact our distributor growth and our revenue. -31- Laws and regulations may prohibit or severely restrict our direct sales efforts and cause our revenue and profitability to decline, and regulators could adopt new regulations that harm our business. Various government agencies throughout the world regulate direct sales practices. These laws and regulations are generally intended to prevent fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as “pyramid” schemes, that compensate participants for recruiting additional participants irrespective of product sales, use high pressure recruiting methods and/or do not involve legitimate products. The laws and regulations in our current markets often: • impose order cancellations, product returns, inventory buy-backs and cooling-off rights for consumers and distributors; • require us or our distributors to register with governmental agencies; • impose reporting requirements to regulatory agencies; and/or • require us to ensure that distributors are not being compensated based upon the recruitment of new distributors. Complying with these widely varying and sometimes inconsistent rules and regulations can be difficult and require the devotion of significant resources on our part. If we are unable to continue business in existing markets or commence operations in new markets because of these laws, our revenue and profitability will decline. Countries where we currently do business could change their laws or regulations to negatively affect or completely prohibit direct sales efforts. In addition, government agencies and courts in the countries where we operate may use their powers and discretion in interpreting and applying laws in a manner that limits our ability to operate or otherwise harms our business or adopt new laws or regulations that could impose additional restrictions. For example, the FTC in the United States has recently proposed new regulations which would impose additional disclosure requirements and waiting periods before a person could sign up to become a distributor that are restrictive and burdensome. The direct selling industry association has filed comments objecting to many of these requirements and is working to get the FTC to change its proposal for new regulations. If these regulations were adopted in their current form, it could have a negative impact on direct selling businesses in the United States including our business. If any governmental authority were to bring a regulatory enforcement action against us that interrupts our business, revenue and earnings would likely suffer. Challenges by private parties to the form of our network marketing system could harm our business. We may be subject to challenges by private parties, including our distributors, to the form of our network marketing system or elements of our business. In the United States, the network marketing industry and regulatory authorities have generally relied on the implementation of distributor rules and policies designed to promote retail sales to protect consumers and to prevent inappropriate activities and to distinguish between legitimate network marketing distribution plans and unlawful pyramid schemes. We have adopted rules and policies based on case law, rulings of the FTC, discussions with regulatory authorities in several states and domestic and global industry standards. Legal and regulatory requirements concerning network marketing systems, however, involve a high level of subjectivity, are inherently fact-based and are subject to judicial interpretation. Because of the foregoing, we can provide no assurance that we would not be harmed by the application or interpretation of statutes or regulations governing network marketing, particularly in any civil challenge by a current or former distributor. -32- Increases in duties on our imported products in our markets outside of the United States or adverse results of tax audits in our various markets could reduce our revenue, negatively impact our operating results and harm our competitive position. Historically, we have imported most of our products into the countries in which they are ultimately sold. These countries impose various legal restrictions on imports and typically impose duties on our products. We are subject from time to time to reviews and audits by the foreign taxing authorities of the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business throughout the world. These audits sometimes result in challenges by such taxing authorities as to our methodologies used in determining our income tax, duties, customs, and other amounts owed in connection with the importation and distribution of our products. Currently, customs audits are underway in a number of our markets. We have been assessed by the Japan customs authorities approximately $25 million for additional duties on products imported into Japan, and we are currently contesting this assessment. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company is operating under a new structure in Japan and we are in the process of negotiating a new advanced pricing agreement with the income tax authorities in Japan related to our transfer pricing for products being imported into Japan. In connection with these negotiations, they have requested that we explain our position in the custom's appeal and apparent difference in our treatment of the transaction for customs purposes compared to our income tax treatment under the prior structure. In the event the income tax authorities disagree with our position or explanation, there is a risk that they could attempt to challenge our income tax position, which could negatively impact our ability to successfully prosecute our custom's appeal or result in additional income tax assessments. Audits are also often focused on whether or not certain expenses are deductible for tax purposes in a given country. In Taiwan, we are currently subject to an audit by tax authorities with respect to the deductibility of distributor commission expenses in that market. In order to avoid the running of the statute of limitations with respect to the 1999 and 2000 tax years, the Taiwan tax authorities have disallowed our commission expense deductions for those years and assessed us a total of approximately $18.7 million. We are contesting this assessment and are in discussions with the tax authorities in an effort to resolve this matter. To the extent we are unable to successfully defend ourselves against such audits and reviews, we may be required to pay assessments and penalties and increased duties, which may, individually or in the aggregate, negatively impact our gross margins and operating results. Governmental authorities may question our intercompany transfer pricing policies or change their laws in a manner that could increase our effective tax rate or otherwise harm our business. As a U.S. company doing business in international markets through subsidiaries, we are subject to foreign tax and intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between our company and our subsidiaries. Regulators in the United States and in foreign markets closely monitor our corporate structure and how we effect intercompany fund transfers. If regulators challenge our corporate structure, transfer pricing mechanisms or intercompany transfers, our operations may be harmed, and our effective tax rate may increase. Tax rates vary from country to country, and, if regulators determine that our profits in one jurisdiction may need to be increased, we may not be able to fully utilize all foreign tax credits that are generated, which will increase our effective tax rate. For example, our corporate income tax rate in the United States is 35%. If our profitability in a higher tax jurisdiction, such as Japan where the corporate tax rate is currently set at 46%, increases disproportionately to the rest of our business, our effective tax rate may increase. The various customs, exchange control and transfer pricing laws are continually changing and are subject to the interpretation of governmental agencies. Despite our efforts to be aware of and comply with such laws and changes to and interpretations thereof, there is a risk that we may not continue to operate in compliance with such laws. We may need to adjust our operating procedures in response to such changes, and as a result our business may suffer. The loss of suppliers or shortages in ingredients could harm our business. For approximately ten years, we have acquired ingredients and products from a supplier that currently manufactures approximately 25% of our Nu Skin personal care products. In addition, we currently rely on two suppliers for a majority of Pharmanex nutritional supplement products, one of which supplies approximately 35% and the other of which supplies approximately 22%. In the event we were to lose any of these suppliers and experience any difficulties in finding or transitioning to alternative suppliers, this could harm our business. In addition, we obtain some of our products from sole suppliers that own or control the product formulations or ingredients. We also license the right to distribute some of our products from third parties. Although none of these products individually represents a substantial portion of our revenue, in the event we are unable to renew these contracts, we may need to discontinue some products or develop substitute products, which could harm our revenue. In addition, if we experience supply shortages or regulatory impediments with respect to the raw materials and ingredients we use in our products, we may need to seek alternative supplies or suppliers. Some of our nutritional products, including our recently introduced g3 juice, incorporate natural products that are only harvested once a year and may have limited supplies. If demand exceeds forecasts, we may have difficulties in obtaining additional supplies to meet the excess demand until the next growing season. If we are unable to successfully respond to such issues our business could be harmed. -33- Production difficulties and quality control problems could harm our business. Occasionally, we, or our suppliers have experienced production difficulties with respect to our products, including the delivery of products that do not meet our quality control standards. These quality problems have resulted in the past, and could result in the future, in stock outages or shortages in our markets with respect to products, harming our sales and creating inventory write-offs for unusable product. In addition, these issues can negatively impact distributor confidence as well as potentially invite additional governmental scrutiny in our various markets. We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of the services provided by any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management, many of whom would be difficult to replace. These employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. We may not be able to successfully retain existing personnel or identify, hire and integrate new personnel. We do not carry key person insurance for any of our personnel. Although we have signed offer letters or written agreements summarizing the compensation terms for some of our senior executives, we have generally not entered into formal employment agreements with our executive officers. If we lose the services of our executive officers or key employees for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Our markets are intensely competitive, and market conditions and the strengths of competitors may harm our business. The markets for our products are intensely competitive. Our results of operations may be harmed by market conditions and competition in the future. Many competitors have much greater name recognition and financial resources than we have, which may give them a competitive advantage. For example, our Nu Skin products compete directly with branded, premium retail products. We also compete with other direct selling organizations. The leading direct selling companies in our existing markets are Avon and Alticor (Amway). We currently do not have significant patent or other proprietary protection, and our competitors may introduce products with the same ingredients that we use in our products. Because of regulatory restrictions concerning claims about the efficacy of dietary supplements, we may have difficulty differentiating our products from our competitors’ products, and competing products entering the nutritional market could harm our nutritional supplement revenue. We also compete with other network marketing companies for distributors. Some of these competitors have a longer operating history and greater visibility, name recognition and financial resources than we do. Some of our competitors have also adopted and could continue to adopt some of our successful business strategies, including our global compensation plan for distributors. Consequently, to successfully compete in this market and attract and retain distributors, we must ensure that our business opportunities and compensation plans are financially rewarding. We have over 20 years of experience in this market and believe we have significant competitive advantages, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete in every endeavor in this market. -34- Product liability claims could harm our business. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by our products. Although we have had a very limited number and relatively low financial exposure from product claims to date, we have experienced difficulty in finding insurers that are willing to provide product liability coverage at reasonable rates due to insurance industry trends and the rising cost of insurance generally. As a result, we have elected to self-insure our product liability risks for our core product lines. Until we elect and are able to obtain product liability insurance, if any of our products are found to cause any injury or damage, we will be subject to the full amount of liability associated with any injuries or damages. This liability could be substantial. We cannot predict if and when product liability insurance will be available to us on reasonable terms. System failures could harm our business. Because of our diverse geographic operations and our complex distributor compensation plan, our business is highly dependent on efficiently functioning information technology systems. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, earthquakes, telecommunications failures and other events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. We have adopted and implemented a Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery Plan. Our primary data sets are archived and stored at third-party secure sites, but we have not contracted for a third-party recovery site. Despite any precautions, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems could result in interruptions in services and reduce our revenue and profits. There is a risk that the Avian Flu or other such epidemics could negatively impact our business, particularly in those Asian markets most affected by such epidemics in recent years. Our revenue was negatively impacted in 2003 by the SARS epidemic that hit Asia during that year. Currently, the Avian Flu is a concern in some Asian markets. It is difficult to predict the impact on our business, if any, of a recurrence of SARS or other epidemic, of the Avian Flu, or the emergence of new epidemics. Although such events could generate increased sales of health/immune supplements and certain personal care products, our direct selling and retail activities and results of operations could be harmed if the fear of the Avian Flu, SARS or other communicable diseases that spread rapidly in densely populated areas causes people to avoid public places and interaction with one another. The market price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations due to a number of factors that are beyond our control. Our common stock closed at $22.51 per share on March 31, 2005 and closed at $17.56 per share on February 15, 2007. During this two-year period, our common stock traded as low as $13.40 per share and as high as $25.86 per share. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Some of these factors include: • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • the sale of shares of common stock by our original or significant stockholders; • general trends in the market for our products; • acquisitions by us or our competitors; -35- • economic and/or currency exchange issues in those foreign countries in which we operate; • changes in estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; and • general business and political conditions. Broad market fluctuations could also lower the market price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. As of February 15, 2007, our original stockholders, together with their family members, estate planning entities and affiliates, controlled approximately 29% of the combined stockholder voting power, and their interests may be different from yours. The original stockholders of our company, together with their family members and affiliates, have the ability to influence the election and removal of the board of directors and, as a result, future direction and operations of our company. As of February 15, 2007, these stockholders owned approximately 29% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, they may influence decisions concerning business opportunities, declaring dividends, issuing additional shares of common stock or other securities and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. They may make decisions that are adverse to your interests. If our stockholders sell a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. Several of our principal stockholders hold a large number of shares of the outstanding common stock. Any decision by any of our principal stockholders to aggressively sell their shares could depress the market price of our common stock. As of February 15, 2007, we had approximately 65.9 million shares of common stock outstanding. All of these shares are freely tradable, except for approximately 19 million shares held by certain stockholders who participated in our October 2003 recapitalization transaction wherein we repurchased approximately 10.8 million of our shares from our original stockholders and their affiliates and facilitated the resale of approximately 6.2 million additional shares to a group of private equity investors. Under the terms of our repurchase, our original stockholders agreed to a two-year lock-up that expired on October 22, 2005. These stockholders also agreed that, after the expiration of the two-year lock-up agreement in October 2005, they will be subject to certain volume limitations with respect to open market transactions. In the event these lock-up restrictions were removed, the resulting sales could cause the price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 