D. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our business and general business, economic, financial, legal and other factors or conditions that may affect us. We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We have a significant amount of debt that matures in 2014, and there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We provided by/ (used) cash in our operating activities in the amount of ($16.5) million in 2011, ($7.8) million in 2012 and $0.28 million in 2013. As of December 31, 2013, the total amount of our cash and cash equivalents amounted to approximately $2.0 million (including $0.1 million of restricted cash) and we had a capital deficiency in the amount of $14.0 million. As of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding Series A notes and Series B notes in the aggregate principal amounts of approximately $10.4 million and $4.6 million, respectively. We are required to pay our note holders approximately $10.6 million in July 2014 and approximately $4.4 million in December 2017 (not including interest and CPI adjustments). These facts raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, and our audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013 include an explanatory paragraph to this effect by our independent registered public accounting firm. 5 In addition, if the value of the NIS compared to the U.S. dollar increases, the U.S. dollar value of the principal amount of both series of our convertible notes would also increase. We may be unable to repay the principal amount of the notes when due. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on these notes, we will be in default under the respective trust agreements governing the notes which could, in turn, cause defaults under any other future indebtedness. The amount of debt we have incurred could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including by: · deterring customers and potential customers from doing business with us; · limiting our ability to obtain financing; · requiring us to apply all or a substantial portion of our cash towards payments on our debt, instead of using those funds for other purposes, such as working capital or capital expenditures; · leading our suppliers to require advance payments, thereby harming our cash flows; and · forcing us to issue equity securities to our creditors in the context of an arrangement or resulting in our liquidation, in which case our currently outstanding ordinary shares will have no value. We are negotiating a creditor arrangement that involves the cancellation of all our currently outstanding ordinary shares and the issuance to our main creditors of ordinary shares constituting 100% of our outstanding share capital following the issuance. If we do not succeed in consummating an arrangement, we will probably enter liquidation proceedings. In either case, our currently outstanding ordinary shares will have no value. On March 5, 2014, we reached an agreement in principle with the representatives of the holders of our Series A notes and Series B notes with respect to a proposed arrangement under Section 350 of the Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999 (the "Companies Law"), and on April 13, 2014, the Tel Aviv District Court approved our request to allow us to convene meetings of our shareholders and significant creditors to approve the proposed arrangement. Set forth below are the highlights of the proposed arrangement: · all of our currently outstanding ordinary shares, including the shares of our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Izhak Tamir, and our Chairman of the Board, Mr. Eric Paneth, would be cancelled; · 90% of the debt represented by our Series A notes and Series B notes, less our current cash balance in excess of $1.0 million, would be exchanged for a new series of non-convertible, non-assignable notes in the principal amount thereof (the “Series C Notes”). · the remaining balance of the debt represented by our Series A notes and Series B notes would be canceled in exchange for 100% of our newly issued ordinary shares; · additional ordinary shares may be issued to certain other creditors in connection with the restructuring of their debt; 6 · Mr. Tamir would continue to serve as the our Chief Executive Officer for at least three months following the consummation of the arrangement and would assist us as requested for at least an additional 24 months in the area of customer support and for an unlimited period in the area of litigation and patent monetization; · we and our existing directors and officers would be granted waivers from claims that would be contingent upon the fulfillment by Mr. Tamir of aforementioned undertakings; and · our directors would be replaced with directors designated by the note holders. For additional information about the proposed arrangement, see Item 10.C "Material Contracts—Proposed Creditor Arrangement". If the proposed arrangement is consummated on the foregoing terms, our currently outstanding ordinary shares including the shares of our CEO Mr. Izhak Tamir and our Chairman of the Board Mr. Eric Paneth will be cancelled and will have no value. There can be no assurance that an arrangement will ultimately be approved and implemented on the foregoing terms or otherwise. Under applicable law, an arrangement requires various approvals, including our significant creditors, our shareholders, the Tel Aviv District Court and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. If an arrangement is not consummated, we will probably enter liquidation proceedings. In that case, as well, our ordinary shares will have no value. We need additional financing to operate our business and repay our debt. We need to raise additional capital to operate our business and repay our debt. The substantial cash required to fund our operating activities and repay our outstanding notes could impede our ability to operate successfully and to invest in our business. We have not generated cash during any of the years in the period from 2007 through 2013. We need to raise equity or debt, commercialize our intellectual property, or do a combination of these transactions. The high amount of our debt, even after the implementation of the 2012 Arrangement, has discouraged prospective investors from investing in our equity. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. This would inhibit our ability to operate our business. Our financial condition has already forced us to significantly curtail our operations in the past few years. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on reasonable terms, we may be required to further curtail operations significantly or obtain funds by entering into financing agreements on unattractive terms, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to operate. If we issue ordinary shares to new investors, especially given the low prevailing market prices of our ordinary shares, our shareholders will be significantly diluted. We have a history of substantial losses. We may experience additional losses in the future. We have incurred significant research and development expenses addressing the development of the metro CM-100 and CM-4000 products, both telecommunication equipment products addressing high transmission of data for the metropolitan area. We incurred operating losses of approximately $34 million in 2008, $25 million in 2009, $25 million in 2010, $16 million in 2011, $7 million in 2012 and $3 million in 2013. We also incurred significant net losses in each of those years. We cannot be sure that we will be able to become profitable. 7 We have recently made significant reductions in our personnel in order to preserve our cash. This prevents us from being awarded contracts with new customers and could harm our ability to awarded new orders and support existing customers, as well. In 2011 and in multiple stages in 2012 and 2013, in order to reduce our cash expenditures, we decreased our expenses, mainly by reducing our headcount, in all areas, including research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. We have also reduced our administrative headcount, thereby increasing the administrative responsibilities of the remaining employees. As of April 30, 2014, we have only seven employees. There is no assurance that the reduction in these expenses will improve our results of operations. The reduction in these expenses means that we no longer have the capacity to conduct research and development, attract new customers and satisfy our existing customers. If we fail to satisfy our customers, we could face legal claims for breach of our maintenance and support obligations. Recent and future economic conditions, may adversely affect our business. The current economic and credit environment is having a negative impact on business around the world. The impact of these conditions on the technology industry and our major current and potential customers has been severe. Conditions may continue to be depressed or may be subject to further deterioration which could lead to a further reduction in consumer and customer spending overall, which could have an adverse impact on sales of our products. A disruption in the ability of our current customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their orders of our products, the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us and the cancellation or reduction of future projects, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. In addition, any disruption in the ability of customers to access liquidity could lead customers to request longer payment terms from us or long-term financing of their purchases from us. If we are unable to grant extended payment terms when requested by customers, our sales could decrease. Granting extended payment terms or a significant adverse change in a customer’s financial and/or credit position would have an immediate negative effect on our cash balances, and could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables or limit our ability to collect receivables related to purchases by that customer. As a result, we may have to defer recognition of revenues, our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase and our losses may increase. We depend on sales to a limited number of significant customers. The loss of a significant customer, or a decrease in purchases by a significant customer, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our revenues from 2004 through 2007 were dependent on sales of one product line, the CM-100, to KDDI, a Japanese telecommunication carrier, which has remained a significant customer. Approximately 16.6% of our revenues in 2011, 25.3% of our revenues in 2012 and 17% in 2013 were derived from sales of CM-100 metro products and services to KDDI. KDDI purchased the CM-100 for initial coverage deployment in its metropolitan area network and began significant deployment in late 2004, continuing through 2005. KDDI’s deployments of the CM-100 decreased in 2006 through 2011. Deployments and revenues from KDDI for 2014 will be insignificant. In 2007, we introduced the CM-4000, a metro product with additional features and capabilities. KDDI has not made and is not expected to make purchases of this product. In 2012, KDDI decided not to award a large upgrade project to us due to our weak financial condition. Moreover, as part of our cost-cutting program in 2012, after KDDI and its distributor did not agree to our request to increase their maintenance payments to us, we terminated the employment of most of the employees who were experts in the CM-100, closed our office in Japan and stopped issuing invoices for support services to the distributor. This resulted in a significant reduction in our overall maintenance revenues and could harm our ability to generate additional sales from KDDI. We do not know for how long a period of time KDDI will continue to purchase the CM-100 from us, nor do we have any control or influence over the purchasing decisions of KDDI, including the quantities and timing of purchases by KDDI. 8 In 2008, our products were selected by Media Broadcast GmbH as a network infrastructure building block for network solutions deployed by Deutsche Telekom’s wholesale business unit, and leased to a leading cable operator in Germany. Media Broadcast, which was a subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom, began purchasing and deploying our products in 2008, becoming our second largest customer in 2008. Approximately 44.1% of our revenues in 2008 were derived from sales of metro products to Media Broadcast. Sales to Media Broadcast decreased significantly thereafter and constituted 2.6% of our revenues in 2011, 3.1% of our revenues in 2012 and 6% in 2013. We do not know for how long a period of time Media Broadcast will continue to purchase products from us nor do we have any control or influence over the purchasing decisions of Media Broadcast, including the quantities and timing of its purchases. In 2009, our CM-4000 products were selected by Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) in India as part of a nationwide, next generation broadband, triple play network based on gigabit passive optical network (GPON) and carrier Ethernet technologies. In 2010, after receipt of a required approval from TSEC in India, a condition for making sales to BSNL, we started to recognize revenues from sales to BSNL through two OEM channels. We recognized approximately $2.6 million of revenues in 2011, which represented 16.8% of our revenues in 2011, approximately $0.2 million of revenues in 2012, which represented 1.2% of our revenues in 2012, and no revenues in 2013. We had expected to receive a follow-on order from BSNL in an amount of 381 million Indian Rupees equal to approximately $7 million in the third quarter of 2011 through ITI Ltd., a local OEM channel. Since then, we believed on several occasions that we were on the verge of receiving this order, only to be frustrated by new obstacles. As a result, we wrote off approximately $$0.8 million and $2.3 million of inventory in our 2012 and 2013 financial statements, respectively. In June 2009, our CM-4000 was selected by Mexico’s redIT (formerly MetroNet) as their main network infrastructure building block. The CM-4000 was selected to replace redIT’s existing carrier Ethernet switches that were at the end of their life and could not be purchased any longer. Interoperability between our CM-4000 and their existing equipment was a requirement that enabled redIT to continue delivery of Carrier Ethernet services to leading carriers in Mexico over a multi-vendor network until the expected transition to a full CM-4000 network is completed. Deliveries of our CM-4000 in Mexico started at the end of 2008. Sales to redIT increased significantly thereafter and constituted 6.7% of our revenues in 2011, 13.4% of our revenues in 2012 and 28% of our revenues in 2013. We cannot be sure that this customer will continue to purchase our products to the same extent, if at all. Our agreement with RedIT provides for payments in multiple installments by RedIT over a period of 36 months after the delivery of our products. Given our financial and business condition, we may not be able to provide support services to the customer's satisfaction, creating a risk that we will be unable to collect these long-term payments. In late 2009, a leading Scandinavian telecommunication service provider selected our CM-4000 product to enable services migration and expansion for residential, enterprise and mobile subscribers with shipments beginning in late 2009. Sales to this customer represented 23.1% of our revenues in 2011, 10.2% of our revenues in 2012 and 12% of our revenues in 2013. We cannot be sure that this customer will continue to purchase our products. 9 We have a business collaboration arrangement with 3M Services to distribute our CM-4000 packet transport gears, which led to the selection of our CM-4000 product by several customers, most of which are regional operators in Germany. Sales to 3M accounted for18.6% of our revenues in 2011, 25.6% of our revenues in 2012 and 17% of our revenues in 2013. For the past several years, we have depended on sales of our CM product lines to a limited number of customers for the substantial majority of our revenues. This dependence will continue in 2014 and beyond. Following the significant reductions in our headcount and budget in 2012, since the end of 2012 we do not have sufficient resources to develop new features required by our customers and prospective customers. At that time, we abandoned our efforts to win Tier 1 customers and we stopped development of Layer-3 functionality. We have since effected additional headcount reductions and, as of April 30, 2014, we have only seven employees, none of whom are research and development, marketing or customer support personnel. As a result, we have abandoned our efforts to win any new customers and we no longer engage in development or marketing activities. Instead, we focus on retaining our existing customers by providing them with limited technical support, including by way of outsourcing, even where we are obliged to provide broader support. There is no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products or that they will not choose another vendor. The loss of 3M or redIT as a customer or the loss or a significant decrease in revenues from 3M or redIT would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations unless we are able to generate significant additional revenues from other customers. The purchasing patterns in the markets we address will likely result in our revenues being highly volatile. Sales of our product lines are dependent on the capital equipment expenditure budgets of telecommunication carriers for metro network equipment. The purchasing patterns of telecommunication carriers for this type of expansion project are subject to high volatility. Uncertainty with respect to consumer spending as a result of weak economic conditions could cause our customers to delay the placing of orders and slow the pace of reorders. We have experienced a concentrated and inconsistent pattern of purchasing by KDDI, Media Broadcast, BSNL, redIT and by the customers of 3M. Our revenues historically have depended upon our ability to meet the requirements by our customers and potential customers to develop new products and features. We currently do not have sufficient resources to develop new products, features or solutions. In order to win new orders from our current customers, we were required from time to time to develop new product features. These development projects required us to expend significant time and resources. Following the significant reductions in our headcount and budget in 2012 and 2013, we do not have any resources to develop new features required by our customers. This reduces our ability to preserve our existing customers. We have completely abandoned the efforts to win new customers. We currently lack sufficient resources to develop new products and product enhancements. The market for our products is characterized by: · rapid technological change; 10 · frequent product introductions and enhancements; · evolving industry standards; · changes in end-user requirements; and · changes in services offered by telecommunication companies. Technologies or standards applicable to our products could become obsolete or fail to gain widespread, commercial acceptance, resulting in losses and inventory write-offs. Rapid technological change and evolving technological standards are resulting in relatively short life cycles for our products. Short life cycles for our products could cause decreases in product prices at the end of the product life cycle, inventory write-offs and a lower rate of return on our research and development expenditures. Due to our financial condition, we do not expect to be able to respond to technological changes or new product introductions by others or to try to develop or market new products. The market for our telecommunication products is intensely competitive. Because substantially all of our competitors have much greater resources than we have, it may be difficult for us to effect commercial sales or to achieve operating profitability. The market for our products is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Many of our current and potential competitors are large and established companies and have better name recognition and greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and personnel resources than we. Consolidation has increased the size and scope of a number of our competitors. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to retain customers, cause us to lower our prices in order to compete and reduce our market share and revenues, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The expansion of research and design facilities in China and India, where engineering costs are significantly lower compared to the United States, Western Europe or Israel, has increased and could further increase competition and price pressure for our products. In addition, manufacturers of telecommunication equipment in China are attempting to leverage their success in supplying telecommunication equipment to local carriers in Asia and market and sell their products outside China. The competitors in our markets are numerous and we expect competition to increase in the future. The principal competitors for our products include Alcatel-Lucent, Brocade, Ciena, Cisco Systems, Inc., ECI Telecom Ltd., Ericsson, Extreme Networks, Inc., Fujitsu, Hitachi, Huwaei, Juniper Networks, NEC, Nokia-Siemens Networks, Tellabs, UTStarcom and ZTE. Government regulation of telecommunication companies could adversely affect the demand for our products. Telecommunication regulatory policies affecting the availability of telephone companies’ services, and other terms on which telephone companies conduct their business, may impede the market penetration of our metro products. For example, our CM-100 and CM-4000 product lines address high bandwidth packets, and are dependent on new service offerings, such as video services, which require regulatory approvals for introduction by telecommunication carriers, including for the scope of content, service packages and tariffs. Telecommunication companies in markets in other countries in which we may attempt to sell our products are also subject to evolving governmental regulation or state monopolies. Changes in laws or regulations in Latin America, Germany, the rest of Europe, Japan, India or elsewhere could materially adversely affect our ability, and the ability of our customers, to deploy our products. 11 We currently use one subcontractor to manufacture and assemble our products, source components and provide other services. In addition, some of our suppliers are sole suppliers. Our business could suffer if we cannot retain or replace our sole subcontractor or a sole supplier. We currently use one subcontractor for product assembly, component sourcing, inventory warehousing, testing and shipment. As a result, we are highly dependent on this subcontractor. In addition, some of the components used in our products are purchased, by us or by our subcontractor, from suppliers that are the sole source of such components. We have not entered into multi-year agreements with assurances of supply with any of our suppliers or subcontractor. Our reliance on one subcontractor and on third-party suppliers involves several risks, including: · the potential absence of adequate capacity if we are able to sell a significant amount of our products; · the unavailability of, or interruption in access to, certain process technologies; · reduced control over product quality, delivery, schedules, manufacturing yields and costs; and · higher per unit prices we could be charged for the manufacturing services we purchase based on the amount of services purchased. Shortages of raw materials or production capacity constraints at our suppliers or subcontractor could negatively affect our ability to meet product delivery obligations and result in increased costs for affected products that we may not be able to recover. Use of a subcontractor also involves the risk of reduced control over product quality, delivery schedules and manufacturing yields, as well as limited negotiating power to reduce costs. In order to have an adequate supply of components with a long lead-time for delivery, we may order significant quantities of components in advance of receiving a purchase order from a customer. A shortage in the supply of key semiconductor and other components could affect our ability to manufacture and deliver our products and result in lower revenues. We may be unable to find alternative sources in a timely manner, if at all, if our major subcontractor were unwilling or unable to provide us with key components. In addition, supply from single source suppliers limits our ability to purchase components at competitive prices and could require us to maintain higher inventory levels. This could increase our need for working capital and could increase the risk of an inventory write-off. In addition, we may also be charged higher per unit prices for certain components whose costs are unit sensitive. This would adversely affect our gross profit margins and results of operations. If we cannot obtain sufficient manufacturing services or key components as required, or develop alternative sources if and as required in the future, product shipments may be delayed or reduced. This could adversely affect our end-user relationships, business and results of operations. 12 We are subject to regulations that require us to use components based on environmentally friendly materials. Compliance with these regulations has increased our costs and is expected to continue to increase our costs. Failure to comply with these regulations could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to telecommunication industry regulations requiring the use of environmentally-friendly materials in telecommunication equipment. For example, pursuant to a European Union directive, telecommunication equipment suppliers were required to eliminate lead solders from their products (the “RoHs6 regulations”). Although we believe that we are in compliance with the RoHs6 regulations, the tests for compliance with these regulations are limited in their ability to fully ensure compliance. If, in spite of the tests performed, we are not in compliance with these regulations, it could harm our ability to sell our products in Europe and in any other countries that may adopt these regulations. In addition, we have not tested all of our products for RoHs compliance. We have relied on the results for products tested in deciding not to test all of our products. If products that we elected not to test are found not to be compliant with these regulations, it could harm our ability to sell the products that are not compliant. Compliance with these regulations, especially with respect to the requirement that products be lead free, as well as additional regulations that are likely to apply in the future, requires us to undertake significant expense with respect to the re-design of our products. This could also result in part or all of our inventory becoming obsolete. We may also be required to pay higher prices for components that comply with these regulations. In addition, such regulations could reduce our production yield and decrease our gross margin. We may not be able to pass these higher component costs and the cost of the decrease in production yield on to our customers. We cannot at this point estimate the expense that will be required to redesign our products in order to include “environmentally friendly” components. We cannot be sure that we will be able to comply with such regulations, that we will be able to comply on a cost effective basis or that a sufficient supply of compliant components will be available to us. Compliance with such regulations has increased our product design costs and could continue to increase these costs. Our inability or failure to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We could incur substantial costs if customers assert warranty claims or request product recalls, especially after our cost-cutting measures in 2012 and 2013. Any significant product returns or claims under our warranty or post-contract hardware and software support services, or PCS, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We offer complex products that have in the past and may in the future contain errors, defects or failures when introduced or as new versions are released. If we deliver products with defects, errors or bugs or if we undergo a product recall as a result of errors or failures, market acceptance of our products could be lost or delayed and we could be the subject of substantial negative publicity. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We commenced commercial sales of our metro product in 2004. While to date we have not incurred warranty expenses that exceeded our estimates, we could incur a higher level of warranty expense claims at any time compared to our prior experience. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in the products sold by us and expect to continue to provide a similar indemnity in connection with future sales. In some cases, our indemnity also covers indirect damages. Product liability claims could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in certain circumstances, a deterioration of our financial condition could give rise to warranty claims or rights to terminate agreements and return our equipment, which would further harm our financial condition. This risk is more acute after the elimination of our customer support and R&D personnel as part of our cost-cutting measures in 2012 and 2013. In fact, during the first quarter of 2013, we commenced a global product recall of 250 units of one our products that was marketed in 2012. The process has been completed. In 2013, one of the customers of 3M Services to whom we sold products that later became the subject of such recall threatened to sue 3M Services, for damages of approximately $1.3 million, in connection with products supplied by us, 3M Services informed us that it reserved its right to sue us, in turn, in connection with this matter. This matter has been settled. 13 We are subject to international business risks. We sell our CM-4000 products internationally, in Japan, Korea, India and other countries in Asia, Latin America and Europe. Our international sales and operations are subject to numerous risks inherent in international business activities, including: · compliance with foreign laws and regulations; · staffing and managing foreign operations; · import or currency control restrictions; · burdens that may be imposed by tariffs and other trade barriers; · local and international taxation; · increased risk of collections; · transportation delays; · seasonal reduction of business activities; and · political and economic factors, as well as natural disasters, that may adversely affect our customers and potential customers. These factors, as well as different technical standards or product requirements for our systems in different markets, may limit our ability to operate effectively in foreign markets. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the service of any of these individuals, our business could be harmed. As of April 30, 2014, we have only seven employees, each one of them is important to our operation. In particular, our operation largely depends on the managerial skills and long-standing relationships of Izhak Tamir, our Chief Executive Officer. If he is unable or unwilling to continue as an officer or consultant, our business could be harmed and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. We may not be able to prevent the misappropriation of our technology, and our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. We have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our technologies. To protect our proprietary know-how, we rely on patent protection, technical leadership, trade secrets and confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements. These measures may not adequately protect our technology and it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our authorization or to develop similar technology. There is a risk that we may violate the proprietary rights of others. We are subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of other companies. Many participants in the telecommunication industry have an increasing number of patents and patent applications and have frequently commenced litigation based on alleged infringement. We indemnify our customers with respect to infringement of third party proprietary rights by our products. Third parties may assert infringement claims in the future and these claims may require us to enter into license arrangements or result in costly litigation, regardless of the merits of these claims. Licensing may be unavailable or may not be obtainable on commercially reasonable terms. 14 We face foreign exchange currency risks. We operate in a number of territories and typically our prices are sometimes determined in local currencies of the countries in which we operate. The main currencies of the countries in which we operate are the U.S. dollar, Japanese Yen (“Yen”), NIS and Euro. A major part of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars and in NIS. In particular, we are obligated to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, our convertible notes in NIS. The majority of our salaries are also paid in NIS. We currently do not use hedge instruments. We are likely to face risks from fluctuations in the value of the Yen, NIS and the Euro compared to the U.S. dollar, our functional currency in our financial statements. Since our sales prices to KDDI are determined in Yen, based on currency exchange rates that prevailed in prior years, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Yen would cause us to recognize lower dollar revenues and gross profit in our financial statements. In 2011, the value of the U.S dollar slightly decreased against the Yen. In 2012 and 2013, the value of the U.S dollar slightly increased against the Yen. Since some of our sales prices in Europe are linked to the Euro, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Euro would cause us to recognize lower dollar revenues and gross profit in our financial statements. In 2011 through 2013, the value of the U.S. dollar slightly increased against the Euro. Since our salary and other expenses are denominated in NIS, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar against the NIS would cause us to recognize higher dollar expenses in our financial statements. In 2011, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased against the NIS. In 2012 and 2013, the value of the U.S. dollar increased against the NIS. We are subject to taxation in several countries. Because we have operated in several countries, mainly in Israel, Japan, Germany, Korea, India, Mexico and a country in Scandinavia, we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. We are required to report to and are subject to local tax authorities in Israel, the United States, Japan, Korea and India and cannot be sure of the amount of taxes we may become obligated to pay in these countries. In addition, our income that is derived from sales and support to customers in one country might also be subject to taxation in other countries. The tax authorities in the countries in which we operate may not agree with our tax position. Our tax benefits from carry forward losses and other tax planning benefits such as Israeli Approved Enterprise programs, may prove to be insufficient due to Israeli tax limitations, or may prove to be insufficient to offset tax liabilities from foreign tax authorities. Foreign tax authorities may also use our gross profit or our revenues in each territory as the basis for determining our income tax, and our operating expenses might not be considered for related tax calculations. This could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Operations in Israel Potential political, economic or military instability in Israel may adversely affect our results of operations. Our principal offices and many of our subcontractor and suppliers are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, Hamas (an Islamist militia and political group in the Gaza Strip) and Hezbollah (an Islamist militia and political group in Lebanon). Recent political uprisings, social unrest and violence in various countries in the Middle East and North Africa, including Israel’s neighbors Egypt and Syria, are affecting the political stability of those countries. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence with the Syrian government, Hamas and Hezbollah. This situation may potentially escalate in the future to violent events which may affect Israel and us. 15 The future of relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority is uncertain. Terror attacks, armed conflicts or political instability in the region could negatively affect local business conditions and harm our results of operations. We cannot predict the effect on us of the increase in the degree of violence by Palestinians against Israel or the effect of recent uprisings, political instability or military action elsewhere in the Middle East. Furthermore, several countries restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional companies may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of an increase in hostilities or anti-Israel sentiment. This may also seriously harm our operating results, financial condition and the ability to expand our business. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by inflation rates in Israel. We could be exposed to risk if the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the Yen, U.S. dollar, Euro, and other currencies of other foreign countries in which we operate, or if the timing of such devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In that event, the cost in U.S. dollars of our operations in Israel would increase and our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations would be adversely affected. For example, in 2013, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased in relation to the NIS by 7%, while inflation in 2013 increased by 1.8%. In 2012, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased in relation to the NIS by 2.3%, while inflation in 2012 increased by 1.6%. As a result, our salary expenses, which are primarily linked to the NIS, increased in U.S. dollar terms. In 2011, the value of the U.S. dollar increased in relation to the NIS by 7.7%, while inflation in 2011 increased by 2.2%. Our issuance in March 2007 and June 2011 of convertible notes that are denominated in NIS has made us more sensitive to increases in the value of the NIS relative to the U.S. dollar. In 2012 and 2013, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased in relation to the NIS, and the Israeli CPI increased, which caused us to record significant financial expenses in relation to the Series A notes and Series B notes. Due to these fluctuations, we may record higher or lower expenses in our financial statements. Our past participation in government grant programs restricts our ability to freely transfer manufacturing rights and technology out of Israel, which limits our ability to commercialize our intellectual property In the past, we relied on grants from the Israeli government and other institutions for the financing of a portion of our product development expenditures. Generally, according to Israeli law, any products developed with grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist, or OCS, are required to be manufactured in Israel, unless we obtain prior approval of a governmental committee. As a condition to obtaining this approval, we may be required to pay the OCS up to 300% of the grants we received and to repay these grants at an accelerated rate, depending on the portion of manufacturing performed outside Israel. We have obtained an approval from the OCS to manufacture part of our products outside Israel. We intend to keep sufficient manufacturing activities in Israel so that we will be subject to a repayment percentage of up to 150% of the grants we received. In addition, we are prohibited from transferring to third parties the technology, patents and knowhow developed with these grants without the prior approval of a governmental committee. If such approval is given, we may be required to pay the OCS all or significant portion of the proceeds from transferring to third parties the technology, patents or knowhow developed with these grants. Based on a request from the OCS, we reported and made certain payments related to our manufacturing activities outside of Israel. The OCS may also dispute our reports related to our manufacturing activities outside of Israel. If we are required to pay the OCS more than what we provided for in our financial statements, it could adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, our total contingent royalties to the OCS is approximately $21.3 million. The position of the OCS is that we would be required to pay at least this amount if we were to transfer our technology, patents or knowhow outside Israel. If the OCS does not modify this position, we may be unable to successfully monetize our patents. 16 In addition, the OCS has claimed that we are required to repay grants in the amount of $0.75 million related to a research and development project that was cancelled. In addition, in April 2014, we received a claim from the OCS to repay grants related to 2012 in an amount of $1.2 million. The tax benefits to which we are currently entitled require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. We are entitled to certain government programs and tax benefits, particularly as a result of the “Approved Enterprise” status of most of our existing facilities. If we fail to meet eligibility conditions in the future, our tax benefits could be reduced or canceled. For more information about Approved Enterprises, see “Item 5.B - Liquidity and Capital Resources – Effective Corporate Tax Rates in Israel,” and “Item 10.E – Taxation – Israeli Tax Considerations – Tax Benefits Under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959” in this Annual Report, and Note 8a to the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, included in this Annual Report. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us and our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon our directors and officers may be difficult to effect in the United States because all these parties reside outside the United States. Any judgment obtained in the United States against such parties may not be collectible in the United States. It may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. However, subject to time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. judgment in a civil matter, if: · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; 17 · the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction, in compliance with due process and the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; · no action between the same parties in the same matter is pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in a U.S. court; and · the U.S. courts are not prohibited from enforcing judgments of the Israeli courts. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make an acquisition of us more difficult, which could depress our share price. The Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999, or the Companies Law, generally requires that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares voting on the proposed merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy its obligations. In addition, a merger may generally not be completed unless at least (i) 50 days have passed since the filing of the merger proposal with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (ii) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each of the parties to the merger. Also, in certain circumstances an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 25% or greater or 45% or greater shareholder of the company (unless there is already a 25% or greater or a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, respectively). If, as a result of an acquisition, the acquirer would hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. The described restrictions could prevent or make more difficult an acquisition of Orckit, which could depress our share price. Risks Relating to the Ownership of our Ordinary Shares We need to effect an arrangement with our main creditors, inlcuding the holders of our Series A notes and Series B notes. If such an arrangement is effected, our currently outstanding ordinary shares are expected to to be canceled under the terms of the proposed arrangement. According to the terms of the arrangement proposed by us, our Series A notes and the Series B notes would be extinguished in exchange for a new series of notes and ordinary shares, and our currently outstanding ordinary shares will be canceled, including the shares held by our Mr. Tamir and Mr. Paneth. Accordingly, such an arrangement would result in rendering worthless the holdings of our current shareholders. 18 The ordinary shares that may be issued to our creditors in such an arrangement will be freely tradable, and the holders thereof may promptly try to sell such shares in the public markets. There is no assurance that there will be sufficient liquidity to enable such sales. Such sales, and the potential for such sales, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. They also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. The trading market for our ordinary shares has low liquidity, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares at desired prices and amounts. Our ordinary shares currently are quoted on the OTCQB, an inter-dealer quotation service operated by OTC Markets Group for companies that are current in their SEC reporting obligations. There are no financial or qualitative standards to be traded on this platform. In Israel, our ordinary shares are traded on the maintenance list. We do not meet the listing conditions of the NASDAQ Stock Market or the TASE. The market for shares quoted on the OTCQB is typically less liquid than that for shares listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market, and trading on the maintenance list is more limited than on the main list of the TASE. This could make it more difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares at desired prices and amounts, which could also adversely affect our ability to raise future capital through the sale of our ordinary shares. We have recently started filings reports in Israel in accordance with the Israeli securities regulations. These regulations require additional costs and management attention and could result in sanctions. In addition to the OTCQB, our ordinary shares are listed on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or the TASE. For so long as our ordinary shares were listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market, we filed a copy of each SEC report with the Israel Securities Authority and were not required to file additional reports under the Israeli securities regulations. However, following our delisting from the NASDAQ Stock Market, we started filing reports pursuant to the Israeli securities regulations. This entails additional management attention, increased legal and accounting expenses and enhanced exposure to sanctions for possible violations of Israeli securities laws. Among these requirements, is the preparation of our financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, rather than U.S. GAAP, which requires us to retain and pay additional accounting consultants. This has increased the time and attention required of Izhak Tamir, who serves as both our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, for financial reporting matters. Holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents face certain income tax risks. In any tax year, we could be deemed a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. holders of our ordinary shares. Based on the composition and value of our gross assets during 2007, 2008 and 2009, it is likely that we would be deemed to have been a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes during each of such years. For 2006, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, we believe that we would not be deemed to have been a PFIC. There can be no assurance that we will not be deemed a PFIC for any future tax year in which, for example, the value of all our assets, as measured by the public market valuation of our ordinary shares and the amount of our liabilities, declines in relation to the value of our passive assets (such as cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities). If we are a PFIC for any tax year, U.S. holders of our ordinary shares during such year may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liabilities and reporting requirements for such year and succeeding years, even if we are no longer a PFIC in such succeeding years. 19 U.S. residents should carefully read “Item 10.E - Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations” in this Annual Report for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares and the consequences of PFIC status. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, for funding growth. Accordingly, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. One shareholder who is also our Chief Executive Officer may be able to control us. As of December 31, 2013, Izhak Tamir, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and a member of our Board of Directors, beneficially owned an aggregate of 4,850,409 ordinary shares, representing 15.5% of our outstanding ordinary shares, including 4,747,409 ordinary shares, 25,000 ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants at an exercise price of $5.66 per share and 78,000 ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants at an exercise price of $3.50 per share. Currently, Mr. Tamir is not party to a shareholders’ agreement with other shareholders. However, if Mr. Tamir acts together with other shareholders, together they may have the power to control the outcome of matters submitted for the vote of shareholders, including the approval of significant change in control transactions. The equity interest in Orckit of Mr. Tamir may make certain transactions more difficult and result in delaying or preventing a change in control of us unless approved by him. Our shareholder bonus rights plan and the super-majority voting requirements in our articles of association may delay, prevent or make more difficult a hostile acquisition of us, which could depress our share price. In November 2001, we adopted a shareholder bonus rights plan pursuant to which share purchase bonus rights were distributed to our shareholders. These rights generally will be exercisable and transferable apart from our ordinary shares only if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our ordinary shares, or commences a tender or exchange offer upon consummation of which that person or group would hold such a beneficial interest. Once these rights become exercisable and transferable, the holders of rights, other than the person or group triggering their transferability, will be generally entitled to purchase our ordinary shares at a discount from the market price. The rights will expire on December 31, 2014, unless our Board takes action to amend the expiration date. While these rights remain outstanding, they may make an acquisition of us more difficult and result in delaying or preventing a change in control of Orckit. In addition, our articles of association require the approval of the holders of at least 75% of our ordinary shares voting on the matter to remove a director from office and the approval of at least two-thirds of our ordinary shares voting on the matter to elect a director. These requirements could also delay or prevent a change of control of our company. Our share price has fluctuated significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. Between January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2013, our share price has fluctuated from a low of $0.5 to a high of $8.00. The following factors may cause significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares: · fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings or those of our competitors; 20 · changes in the conversion prices of our convertible notes, as occurred pursuant to the 2012 Arrangement and as our note holders request from time to time; · announcements concerning us, our competitors or telecommunication companies; · announcements concerning our customers; · announcements of technological innovations; · the introduction of new products; · changes in product price policies involving us or our competitors; · market conditions in the industry; · the conditions of the securities markets, particularly in the technology and Israeli sectors; and · political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel and worldwide. In addition, stock prices of many technology companies fluctuate significantly for reasons that may be unrelated or disproportionate to operating results. The factors discussed above may depress or cause volatility of our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. Our actual financial results might vary from our publicly disclosed financial forecasts. From time to time, we publicly disclose financial forecasts. Our forecasts reflect numerous assumptions concerning our expected performance, as well as other factors which are beyond our control and which might not turn out to be correct. As a result, variations from our forecasts could be material. Our financial results are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section. If our actual financial results are worse than our financial forecasts, the price of our ordinary shares may decline. Investors may experience significant dilution as a result of financing transactions or the issuance of ordinary shares under outstanding securities convertible into or exercisable for our ordinary shares. If we issue ordinary shares to new investors, especially given the low prevailing market prices of our ordinary shares, the ownership stake of our existing shareholders will be significantly diluted. In addition, we may issue additional ordinary shares upon the conversion or exercise of our outstanding stock options, warrants and convertible subordinated notes, and other rights to acquire our ordinary shares. The issuance of ordinary shares upon the conversion or exercise of such securities will dilute our shareholders' ownership stake. There may be an adverse effect on the market price of our shares as a result of shares being sold or available for sale in the future. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, warrants or convertible notes, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall. Such sales, and the potential for such sales, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. 21 Our ordinary shares are listed for trading in more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading on OTCQB and the maintenance list of the TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on OTCQB and NIS on TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets can often differ, resulting from the factors described above, as well as differences in exchange rates. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. We are subject to ongoing costs and risks associated with complying with extensive corporate governance and disclosure requirements. As an Israeli company subject to U.S. federal securities laws and Israeli securities laws, we spend a significant amount of management time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, SEC regulations, Israeli securities regulations and the Companies Law. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires an annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting of the effectiveness of these controls by our management. There is no guarantee that these efforts will result in management assurance that our internal control over financial reporting is adequate in future periods. In connection with our compliance with Section 404 and the other applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management devotes a substantial amount of time, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff, to assure that we continue to comply with these requirements. We do not have the financial resources to hire such additional personnel. The management attention and costs relating to compliance with the foregoing requirements could materially and adversely affect our financial results. 