D. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, among others, could in the future affect our actual results of operations and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. Before you decide to buy, hold, or sell our Ordinary Shares, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this annual report. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs. In that event, the market price for our Ordinary Shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and we may continue to incur full-year losses in 2013 and in subsequent years. We have incurred losses in each year since we commenced operations in 1990. We reported net losses attributable to shareholders of $50.0 million in 2008 (including a goodwill impairment charge of $24.2 million), $23.2 million in 2009, $6.2 million in 2010, $6.9 million in 2011and $17.4 million in 2012. We may continue to incur full year losses in 2013 and afterwards, as we invest in the expansion of our global marketing network, reduce our product prices in return for future transaction fees based on the volume of transactions in systems that contain our products, invest in fixed assets that may generate revenues more slowly than expected and enhance our research and development capabilities. 8 We are under new management and are assessing possible alternatives to maximize value for our shareholders. This process may not result in a viable alternative, or such alternative might not be implemented successfully. During the second half of 2012, six out of eight of our directors ceased serving on our Board of Directors and our Chief Executive Officer, our President and Chief Marketing Officer and VP Projects resigned. In December 2012, eight new directors were elected to serve on our Board of Directors, in March 2013 we announced the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer and in April 2013 we appointed a new chairman to our board of directors. Our new Board of Directors has been identifying and assessing strategies to maximize value for our shareholders. After the assessment period we plan to implement a new strategy for growing our businesses and building shareholder value. However, there is no certainty that we will be able to identify the strategy that will work best for us, or that the strategy we choose will be implemented successfully. If we fail to identify the appropriate strategy or to implement successfully the strategy we choose, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in our management and control may result in disputes with prior management and directors. Managing such disputes may cause the diversion of management’s attention or the expenditure of significant resources, or both. We are in a transition period and may desire to exit certain product lines or businesses, or to restructure our operations, but may not be successful in doing so. Our new Board of Directors has been identifying and assessing strategies to maximize value for our shareholders. Such process may result in a decision to divest certain product lines and businesses or restructure our operations, including through the contribution of assets to joint ventures. However, our ability to successfully exit product lines and businesses, or to close or consolidate operations, depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For example, if we are seeking a buyer for a particular business line, none may be available, or we may not be successful in negotiating satisfactory terms with prospective buyers. If we are unable to exit a product line or business in a timely manner, or to restructure our operations in a manner we deem to be advantageous, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if a divestment is successful, we may face indemnity and other liability claims by the acquirer or other parties. We depend on a small number of large customers, and the loss of one or more of them would lower our revenues. Our customer base is concentrated among a limited number of large customers, primarily because a substantial part of our revenues is derived from large projects. We anticipate that our revenues will continue to depend on a limited number of major customers. The customers we consider to be our major customers and the percentage of our revenue represented by each major customer vary from period to period. In 2010, 2011 and for 2012, our largest customer, the Ecuadorian government, provided 53%, 16% and 12% respectively, of our total revenues for such periods. In addition, two other customers, relating to a driving license project in Tanzania and a national identification cards in Panama , respectively accounted for 14% and 0% for 2011 and 12% and 15% for 2012 of our total revenues. If we were to lose any one of our major customers, or if any of our customers were to have difficulty meeting their financial obligations to us for any reason, our financial condition would be adversely affected. If the market for smart cards in general, and for contactless microprocessor-based smart cards in particular, does not grow, sales of our products may not grow and may even decline. The success of our products depends on commercial enterprises, governmental authorities and other potential card issuers adopting contactless microprocessor-based smart card technologies. Other card technologies, such as magnetic strips or bar codes, are widely used and could be viewed by potential customers as more cost effective alternatives to our products. Additionally, potential customers in developed countries such as the United States may already have installed systems that are based on technologies different from ours and therefore may be less willing to incur the capital expenditures required to install or upgrade to a contactless microprocessor-based smart card system. As a result, we cannot assure that there will be significant market opportunities for contactless microprocessor-based smart card products. If demand for contactless microprocessor-based smart card products such as ours does not develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may have fewer opportunities for growth than expected. 9 If we fail to develop new products or adapt our existing products for use in new markets, our revenue growth may be impeded and we may incur significant losses. To date, we have sold products incorporating our technology within a limited number of markets. We are devoting significant resources to developing new products and adapting our existing products for use in new markets, such as mobile payment solutions, parking solutions and medical cards for use in hospitals. If we fail to develop new products or adapt our existing products for new markets, we may not recoup the expenses incurred in our efforts to do so, our revenue growth may be impeded and we may incur significant losses. We have acquired several companies or groups of companies and we intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future. The failure to successfully integrate acquired companies and businesses or to acquire new companies and businesses may harm our financial performance and growth. During the last few years we acquired several companies or businesses around the world. In certain cases, we paid for these acquisitions through the issuance of our Ordinary Shares and in certain cases, warrants to purchase Ordinary Shares and cash consideration. These and future acquisitions could result in: · difficulties in integrating our operations, technologies, products and services with those of the acquired companies and businesses; · difficulty in integrating operations that are spread across significant geographic distances; · diversion of our capital and our management's attention away from other ongoing business issues; · potential loss of key employees and customers of companies and businesses we acquire; · increased liabilities as a result of liabilities of the companies and businesses we acquire; and · dilution of shareholdings in the event we acquire companies and businesses in exchange for our Ordinary Shares. We may not successfully integrate all technologies, manufacturing facilities or distribution channels that we have or may acquire and we cannot assure that any of our recent acquisitions will be successful. In addition, if we do not acquire new companies and businesses in the future, our business may not grow as expected. If any of our recent or future acquisitions are not successful, our financial performance and business may be adversely affected. Our revenue growth may be impaired if we are unable to maintain our current, and establish new, strategic relationships. The markets for our products are usually highly specialized and require us to enter into strategic relationships in order to facilitate or accelerate our penetration into new markets. We consider a relationship to be strategic when we integrate our technology into some of the product offerings of a manufacturer or systems integrator that has a significant position in a specified market and cooperate in marketing the resulting product. The termination of any of our strategic relationships or our failure to develop additional relationships in the future may limit our ability to expand the markets in which our products are deployed or to sell particular products. 10 The terms of certain of our agreements may restrict our ability to take actions that we believe to be desirable. Pursuant to certain agreements we have entered into with our suppliers, sales agents and joint venture partners, we have agreed to restrict ourselves in some areas of business for different time periods, ranging from several months to several years. In addition, in certain markets, we sell our products through sales agents which, in certain cases, have exclusive sales rights in that market if specified sales quotas are met. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition if these partners do not perform in a satisfactory manner. We face intense competition. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business prospects will be impaired. We face intense competition from developers of contact and contactless microprocessor-based technologies and products, developers of contactless products that use other types of technologies that are not microprocessor-based, and non-smart card technologies. In some of our markets we are facing competition from new emerging technologies such as Smartphone related solutions. We compete on the basis of a range of competitive factors including price, compatibility with the products of other manufacturers, and the ability to support new industry standards and introduce new reliable technologies. Many of our competitors have greater market recognition, larger customer bases, and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we possess. As a result, they may be able to introduce new products, respond to customer requirements and adapt to evolving industry standards more quickly than we can. From time to time, we or one or more of our present or future competitors may announce new or enhanced products or technologies that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of our existing products. The announcement of new or enhanced products may cause customers to delay or alter their purchasing decisions in anticipation of such products, and new products developed by our competitors may render our products obsolete or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. If we cannot compete successfully with our existing and future competitors, we could experience lower sales, price reductions, loss of revenues, reduced gross margins and reduced market share. If there is a sustained increase in demand for microprocessors, availability might be limited and prices might increase. Our products require microprocessors. The microprocessor industry periodically experiences increased demand and limited availability due to production capacity constraints. Increased demand or limited availability of microprocessors could substantially increase the cost of producing our products. Some of our customers have fixed prices in their contracts, and therefore we may not be able to pass on any increases in costs to such customers, and consequently our profit margin may be reduced. In addition, as a result of a shortage, we may be compelled to delay shipments of our products, or devote additional resources to maintaining higher levels of microprocessor inventory. Consequently, we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our cost of revenues and, therefore, in our future results of operations. Our products have long development cycles and we may expend significant resources in relation to a specific project without realizing any revenues. The development cycle for our products varies from project to project. Typically, the projects in which we are involved are complex and require that we customize our products to our customers’ needs and specifications in return for payment of a fixed amount. We then conduct evaluation, testing, implementation and acceptance procedures of the customized products with the customer. Only after successful completion of these procedures will customers place orders for our products in commercial quantities. In addition, our sales contracts do not typically include minimum purchase requirements. We therefore cannot assure that future contracts will result in commercial sales. Our average development cycle is typically between 6 and 18 months from initial contact with a potential customer until we deliver commercial quantities to the customer and recognize significant revenues. As a result, we may expend financial, management and other resources to develop customer relationships before we recognize revenues, if any. 11 Fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance may create volatility in the market price of our shares and may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied substantially in the past and may continue do so in the future. These fluctuations may be driven by various factors which are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and may not meet the expectations of analysts and investors. These factors include, among others, the following: · The size and timing of orders placed by our governmental customers is difficult to predict. Governmental projects typically involve a protracted competitive procurement process and in some circumstances litigation following the award of a contract. For example, we started to prepare and negotiate our offer for the Republic of Panama e-ID project in 2010 (the “Panama Border Control Project”, described more fully in Item 10.C “Material Contracts”, below), while the agreement was actually signed during 2011 and we started recognizing revenues only in 2012. · Our payroll expenses are relatively fixed and we would not expect to reduce our workforce due to a reduction in revenues in any particular quarter. · The tendency of some of our clients, due to budgetary reasons, to place orders for products toward the last quarter of their financial year. As a result of these factors, our revenues and operating results in any quarter may not be indicative of our future performance, and it may be difficult to evaluate our prospects. Delays or discontinuance of the supply of components may hamper our ability to produce our products on a timely basis and cause short-term adverse effects. The components we use in our products, including microprocessors and cards, are supplied by third party suppliers and manufacturers. We sometimes experience short-term adverse effects due to delayed shipments that have in the past interrupted and delayed, and could in the future interrupt and delay, the supply of our products to our customers, and may result in cancellation of orders for our products. However, other than our Supply Agreement with SMARTRAC N.V., as described below, we do not generally have long-term supply contracts under which our suppliers are committed to supply us with components at fixed or defined prices. Suppliers could increase component prices significantly without warning or could discontinue the manufacturing or supply of components used in our products. In addition, third party suppliers may face other challenges in fulfilling their contractual obligations with us which are beyond our control. For instance, our 2011and 2012 financial results were adversely impacted by the flooding in Thailand which had direct impact on a plant of one of our principal contractors for inlays, and this caused disruptions to our supply chain and specifically affected our ability to deliver products to our customers. We may not be able to develop alternative sources for product components if and as required in the future. Even if we are able to identify alternative sources of supply, we may need to modify our products to render them compatible with other components. This may cause delays in product shipments, increase manufacturing costs and increase product prices. Some of our suppliers are located in Europe and Asia, and therefore we may experience logistical problems in our supply chain, including long lead times for receipt of products or components and shipping delays. In addition, our subcontractors may, on occasion, feel the impact of potential economic or political instability in their regions, which could affect their ability to supply us with components for our products in a timely manner. 12 If we fail to hire, train and retain qualified research and development personnel, our ability to enhance our existing products, develop new products and compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to hire and train qualified research and development personnel. Individuals who have expertise in research and development in our industry are scarce. Competition for such personnel in the electronics industry is intense, particularly in Israel. Consequently, hiring, training and retaining such personnel is time consuming and expensive. In addition, it may be difficult to attract qualified personnel to Rosh Pina, which is located in the northern part of Israel. If we fail to hire, train and retain employees with skills in research and development, we may not be able to enhance our existing products or develop new products. If we are unable to protect or assert our intellectual property rights, our business and results of operations may be harmed. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part on using our intellectual property and proprietary rights to protect our technology and products. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, design, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other contractual relationships with our employees, customers, affiliates, distributors, suppliers and others. While substantially all of our employees are subject to non-compete agreements, these agreements may be difficult to enforce as a result of Israeli law limiting the scope of employee non-competition undertakings. We further note that the Israeli Supreme Court noted (in an obiter dictum) in 2012, without making any decisive ruling, that an employee who contributes to an invention during his employment could be allowed to seek compensation for it from their employer, even if the employee’s contract of employment specifically states otherwise and the employee has transferred all intellectual property rights to the employer. The Supreme Court considered the possibility that a contract that revokes the employee’s right for royalties and compensation may not necessarily foreclose the right of the employee to claim a right for royalties. As a result, even if the Company believes that none of its employees has any rights in any of the Company’s patents, or to receive royalties, it is unclear if, and to what extent, our employees may be able to claim compensation with respect to our future revenue. As a result, we may receive less revenue from future products if such claims are successful, which in turn could impact our future profitability. Our patent portfolio includes over 100 issued utility and design patents and pending patent applications worldwide encompassing, among others, product applications, software platforms, system and product architecture and product concepts in the fields of Near Field Communications, or NFC, contactless payments, secure ID, petroleum and parking solutions. Our issued patents are registered in the United States, Europe, Australia, Israel and other countries and our patent applications are pending in the United States, Europe, Asia, Israel, South Africa and additional territories. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued with respect to any of our pending or future patent applications or that the scope of our existing patents, or any future patents that are issued to us, will provide us with adequate protection for our technology and products. Others may challenge our patents or patent applications as well as our registered trademarks. We do not know whether any of them will be upheld as valid or will be enforceable against alleged infringers. Thus we do not know whether they will enable us to prevent or hinder the development of competing products or technologies. Moreover, patents provide legal protection only in the countries where they are registered and the extent of the protection granted by patents varies from country to country. The measures we have taken to protect our technology and products may not be sufficient to prevent their misappropriation by third parties or their independent development by others of similar technologies or products. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, competitors may be able to offer products similar to our products more easily. Our competitors may also develop competing technology by designing around our patents and thereafter manufacturing and selling products that compete directly with ours, which would harm our business, financial position and results of operations. In order to protect our technology and products and enforce our patents and other proprietary rights, we may need to initiate, prosecute or defend litigation and other proceedings before courts and patent and trademark offices in multiple countries. For instance, in March 2012 we filed a patent infringement lawsuit alleging that T-Mobile USA, Inc. sells NFC enabled phones that infringe a patent we own. These legal and administrative proceedings could be expensive and could occupy significant management time and resources. In addition, since one of T-Mobile’s defenses is invalidity of the patent, there is a risk that the asserted patent will be declared invalid. 13 Security breaches and system failures could expose us to liability, harm our business or result in the loss of customers. We retain sensitive data, including intellectual property, books of record and personally identifiable information, on our networks. It is critical to our business strategy that our infrastructure and other infrastructure we use to host our solutions remain secure, do not suffer system failures and are perceived by customers and partners to be secure and reliable. Despite our security measures, our infrastructure and third party infrastructure we use to host our solutions may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or other disruptive problems. Our policy is to cap our liability to damages at the cost of the project. Yet, we cannot ensure that the actual liabilities imposed on us in case of data security issues or data loss issues would indeed be subject to such cap. Any security breach or system failure may compromise information stored on our networks. Such an occurrence could negatively affect our reputation as a trusted provider of solutions and hosting such solutions by adversely affecting the market’s perception of the security or reliability of our products or services. If we fail to adhere to regulations and security standards imposed by credit card networks, or if our products are not certified or otherwise fail to comply with such regulations and security standards (such as payment card industry standards, etc.) or if our customers fail to take proper protective measures and hold OTI liable for the consequences, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our products are designed to collect, store, and route certain personally identifiable information from the clients and clients of our customers, as well as processing such clients’ payments using payment information. In addition, we may store such information on our servers. We are required by some of our customers to meet industry standards imposed by payment systems standards setting organizations such as EMVCo LLC, credit card associations such as Visa, MasterCard, and other credit card associations and standard setting organizations such as PCI SSC, Intermec, the U.K. Cards Association and other local organizations. Furthermore, many of our offerings are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS), which is a set of multifaceted security standards that is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities. Even though we attempt to protect our company through our contracts with our customers, clients and other third-party service providers, and in certain cases assess their security controls, we have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. We implemented an off-site backup policy that is expected to help in case of system crash caused by hackers, intruders or attackers. However, this policy cannot guarantee complete security, as not all attack possibilities are known. We also advise our customers to maintain insurance policies covering cyber-attacks on their systems, including system restore and derived liabilities in case of stolen data, and we further advise them to monitor their backup policies carefully, ensuring off-site backups. New standards are continually being adopted or proposed as a result of worldwide anti-fraud initiatives, encryption of cardholder data, the increasing need for system compatibility and technology developments such as wireless and wire line IP communication. We cannot be sure that we will be able to design our solutions to comply with future standards or regulations on a timely basis, if at all. Compliance with these standards could increase the cost of developing or producing our products, while non- compliance may harm our reputation or result in customer and client claims. New products designed to meet any new standards need to be introduced to the market and ordinarily need to be certified by the credit card associations and our customers before being purchased. The certification process is costly and time consuming and increases the amount of time it takes to sell our products. Selling products that are non-compliant may result in fines against us or our customers, which we may be liable to pay. After installation of a system, the customer is responsible for physical security, power supply air condition, backup and any other operational step ensuring the servers from unexpected crashes. Yet, these may happen outside of OTI's control and, as above, OTI advises its clients to take backup and insurance measures for such cases. In addition, even if our products are designed to be compliant, compliance with certain security standards is determined on the basis of the network environment in which our customers and service providers install our products. Therefore, such compliance depends upon additional factors such as proper installation of the components of the environment (including our systems, compliance of software and system components provided by other vendors), implementation of compliant security processes and business practices and adherence to such processes and practices. 14 Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected if we do not comply with new or existing industry standards and regulations, or obtain or retain necessary regulatory approval or certifications in a timely fashion, or if compliance results in increasing the cost of our products. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. It is not always possible to know with certainty whether or not the manufacture and sale of our products does or will infringe patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. For example, patent applications may be pending at any time which, if granted, cover products that we developed or are developing. In certain jurisdictions, the subject matter of a patent is not published until the patent is issued. Third parties may, from time to time, claim that our products infringe on their patent or other intellectual property rights. In addition, if third parties claim that our customers are violating their intellectual property rights, our customers may seek indemnification from us (which could be costly), or may terminate their relationships with us. Our products depend on operating systems licensed to us and we may also be subject to claims by third parties that our use of these operating systems infringes on their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claim could involve time-consuming and disruptive litigation that, if determined adversely to us, could prevent us from making or selling our products, subject us to substantial monetary damages or require us to seek licenses. Intellectual property rights litigation is complex and costly, and we cannot be sure of the outcome of any litigation. Even if we prevail, the cost of litigation could harm our results of operations. In addition, litigation is time consuming and could divert our management’s attention and resources away from our business. If we do not prevail in any litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we might be required to discontinue the use of certain processes, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products and solutions, and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses on unfavorable terms. Licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, some licenses are non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or cannot design around any third party patents or otherwise avoid infringements, we may be unable to sell some of our products. We are susceptible to changes in international markets and difficulties with international operations could harm our business. We have derived revenues from different geographical areas. The following table sets forth our sales in different geographical areas as a percentage of revenues: Africa Europe Far East Americas Israel 2008 15 48 10 15 12 2009 12 37 8 31 12 2010 12 22 3 56 7 2011 24 32 18 19 7 2012 24 33 3 35 5 Our ability to maintain our position in existing markets and to penetrate new, regional and local markets is dependent, in part, on the stability of regional and local economies. Our regional sales may continue to fluctuate widely and may be adversely impacted by future political or economic instability in these or other foreign countries or regions. 15 In addition, there are inherent risks in these international operations which include, among others: · changes in regulatory requirements and communications standards; · required licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; · difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights across, or having to litigate disputes in, various jurisdictions; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex laws and treaties in various jurisdictions. If we are unable to manage the risks associated with our focus on international sales, our business may be harmed. We report in US dollars while a portion of our revenues and expenses is incurred in other currencies. Therefore currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We generate a significant portion of our revenues in U.S. Dollars but we incur a large portion of our expenses in other currencies. Our principal non-U.S. Dollar expenses are for Israeli employees’ salaries, which are in NIS, and the expenses of our international subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries in Germany and France, InterCard and PARX France, incur expenses in Euros, our subsidiary in Poland, ASEC Spolka Akeyjna, or ASEC, incurs expenses in Polish Zloty and our subsidiary in South Africa, OTI Africa, incurs expenses in South-African Rand. To the extent that we and our subsidiaries based in Israel, Europe and South-Africa conduct our business in different currencies, our revenues and expenses and, as a result, our assets and liabilities, are not necessarily accounted for in the same currency. We are therefore exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. More specifically, we face the risk that our accounts receivable denominated in non-U.S. Dollar currencies will be devalued if such currencies weaken quickly and significantly against the U.S. Dollar. Similarly, we face the risk that our accounts payable and debt obligations denominated in non-U.S. Dollar currencies will increase if such currencies strengthen quickly and significantly against the U.S. Dollar. These fluctuations may negatively affect our results of operations. Our operations could also be adversely affected if we are unable to limit our exposure to currency fluctuations in the future. To decrease the risk of financial exposure to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar against the NIS or other currencies, we may enter into currency hedging transactions. However, these measures may not adequately protect us from material adverse effects resulting from currency fluctuations. In addition, if we wish to maintain the U.S. Dollar-denominated value of sales made in other currencies, any devaluation of the other currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar would require us to increase our other currency denominated selling prices. That could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders. Our international sales and operations are subject to complex laws relating to foreign corrupt practices and bribery, among many other subjects. A violation of, or change in, these laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations in countries outside the U.S. are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 as amended from time to time, or the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity, or obtain any unfair advantage. We have internal control policies and procedures and have implemented training and compliance programs for our employees and agents with respect to the FCPA. However, we cannot assure that our policies, procedures and programs will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Allegations of violations of applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, may result in internal, independent, or government investigations. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. In addition, investigations by governmental authorities as well as legal, social, economic, and political issues in these countries could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners or agents outside of the U.S. may fail to comply with other applicable laws. The costs of complying with these and similar laws may be significant and may require significant management time and focus. Any violation of these or similar laws, intentional or unintentional, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 We may have to adapt our products in order to integrate them into our customers’ systems if new government regulations or industry standards are adopted or current regulations or standards are changed. Some of our products are subject to government regulation in the countries in which they are used. For example, card readers used in the U.S. and in Europe require certification of compliance with regulations of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission and the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, respectively, regarding emission limits of radio frequency devices. In addition, governmental certification for the systems into which our products are integrated may be required. The International Standards Organization approved industry standards regulating the transfer of data between contactless smart cards and a reader that we generally meet. If there is a change in government regulations or industry standards, we may have to make significant modifications to our products and, as a result, could incur significant costs and may be unable to deploy our products in a timely manner. In addition, prior to purchasing our products, some customers may require us to receive or obtain a third party certification, or occasionally certify ourselves, that our products can be integrated successfully into their systems or comply with applicable regulations. In some cases, in order for our products, or for the system into which they are integrated, to be certified, we may have to make significant product modifications. Furthermore, receipt of third party certifications may not occur in a timely manner or at all. Failure to receive third party certifications could render us unable to deploy our products in a timely manner or at all. Our products may contain defects that are only discovered after the products have been deployed or used. This could harm our reputation, result in loss of customers and revenues or subject us to product liability claims. Our products are highly technical and deployed as part of large and complex projects. As a result of the nature of our products, they can only be fully tested when fully deployed. For example, the testing of our parking payment product required the distribution of sample parking payment cards to drivers, installation of electronic kiosks at which a card holder can increase the balance on his or her card, linking of kiosks to financial and parking databases, collection of data through handheld terminals, processing of data that is collected by the system, compilation of reports and clearing of parking transactions. Any defects in our products could result in: · harm to our reputation; · loss of, or delay in, revenues; · loss of customers and market share; · failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products; and · unexpected expenses to remedy errors. In addition, we could be exposed to potential product liability claims. While we currently maintain product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this insurance will be sufficient to cover any successful product liability claim. Any product liability claim could result in changes to our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of a large deductible or co-insurance requirements. Any product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of our cash reserves. Furthermore, the assertion of product liability claims, regardless of the merits underlying the claim, could result in substantial costs to us, divert management’s attention away from our operations and damage our reputation. 17 We have sought government contracts in the past and may seek additional government contracts in the future, which subjects us to certain risks associated with such types of contracts. Most government contracts are awarded through a competitive bidding process, and some of the business that we expect to seek in the future likely will be subject to a competitive bidding process. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including: · the frequent need to compete against third parties with more financial and marketing resources and more experience than we have in bidding on and performing major contracts; · the need to compete for a particular contract against third parties that may be long-term, entrenched incumbents and that, as a result, have greater domain expertise and established customer relations; · the need to compete on occasion to retain existing contracts that have in the past been awarded to us on a sole-source basis; · the substantial cost and managerial time and effort necessary to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; · the need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to service a fixed-price contract that we are awarded; and · the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge new contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding or subsequent contract modifications, and the risk that any of these protests or challenges could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. We may not be afforded the opportunity in the future to bid on contracts that are held by other companies and are scheduled to expire if the government determines to extend the existing contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through the competitive bidding process, we may not be able to operate in the market for products and services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to win new contract awards or retain those contracts, if any, that we are awarded over any extended period, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, government contracts subject us to risks associated with tender processes (which many times include, third party challenges and long qualification period), public budgetary restrictions and uncertainties, actual contracts that are less than awarded contract amounts, and cancellation at any time at the option of the government (sometimes due to challenges by third parties). Any failure to comply with the terms of any government contracts could result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as suspension from future contracts for a significant period of time, any of which could adversely affect our business by requiring us to pay significant fines and penalties or prevent us from earning revenues from government contracts during the suspension period. Cancellation of any one of our major government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The government may be in a position to obtain greater rights with respect to our intellectual property than we would grant to other entities. Government agencies also have the power to deem contractors unsuitable for new contract awards based on their financial difficulties or the outcome of investigations. Because we engage in the government contracting business, we will be subject to audits and may be subject to investigation by governmental entities. Failure to comply with the terms of any government contracts could result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as suspension from future government contracts for a significant period of time, any of which could adversely affect our business by requiring us to spend money to pay the fines and penalties and prohibiting us from earning revenues from government contracts during the suspension period. 18 We have significant operations in countries that may be adversely affected by political or economic instability. We are a global company with worldwide operations. We derive significant portion of our sales and future growth from regions such as Latin America, Eastern Europe and Africa, which may be more susceptible to political or economic instability. Significant portions of our operations are conducted outside the markets in which our products are sold, and accordingly we often import a substantial number of products into such markets. We may, therefore, be denied access to our customers or suppliers or denied the ability to ship products from any of our sites as a result of a closing of the borders of the countries in which we sell our products, or in which our operations are located, due to economic, legislative or political conditions. Delays in the implementation stage in some of the projects we are involved with may prevent us from generating sales revenues as expected in the applicable year. In 2010 and 2011 we experienced delays in some of the projects we are involved with. For example, in Panama, where we have been contracted to supply electronic immigration control systems, we have experienced delays in the project implementation. Delays in other projects might occur as a result of factors that are beyond our control such as customer readiness or shortage in purchased components needed for project implementation as well as our readiness to implement the projects. If such delays occur in the future, it might affect our revenues, profitability or our share price. The general economic outlook may adversely affect our business. Our operations and performance depend on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of business and public spending, which deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. This may adversely affect the budgeting and purchasing behavior of our customers and our potential customers, including shifting customers purchasing patterns to lower-cost options, which could adversely affect our product sales. In addition, continuing uncertainties in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers, suppliers, distributors and resellers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and to perform their contractual obligations with us. As a result, we could encounter, among other adverse effects, a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products, and an increase in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable being required. We derive a portion of our revenues from sales to systems integrators that are not the end-users of our products. We are dependent, to a certain extent, on the ability of these integrators to maintain their existing business and secure new business. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, 4%, 7% and 8%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales to systems integrators that incorporate our products into systems which they supply and install for use in a specific project. To the extent our revenues depend on the ability of systems integrators to successfully market, sell, install and provide technical support for systems in which our products are integrated or to sell our products on a stand-alone basis, our revenues may decline if the efforts of these systems integrators fail. Further, the faulty or negligent implementation and installation of our products by systems integrators may harm our reputation and dilute our brand name. We are one step removed from the end-users of our products, and therefore may be more difficult for us to rectify damage to our reputation caused by systems integrators that have direct contact with end-users. In addition, termination of agreements with systems integrators or revocation of exclusive distribution rights within certain countries might be difficult. If we are unable to maintain our current relationships with systems integrators or develop relationships with new systems integrators, we may not be able to sell our products and our results of operations could be impaired. Unless we continue to expand our direct sales, our future success will depend upon the timing and size of future purchases by systems integrators and the success of the projects and services for which they use our products. 19 Terrorist attacks may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the financial markets on which our Ordinary Shares trade, the markets in which we operate, our operations and profitability and your investment. These attacks, or subsequent armed conflicts resulting from or connected to them, may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. For example, during the Second Lebanon War in 2006, numerous shells fired at Israel from Lebanese territory landed in Rosh Pina. Although such attacks did not have an adverse impact upon the Company or any of its operations, we cannot assure you that, in the future, any similar circumstances will have no such impact. In addition, terrorist attacks may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and/or expensive and affect the results of our operations. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares We may not be able to meet NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements and our shares may be delisted. We may not be able to meet NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements in the NASDAQ Listing Rules, or the NASDAQ Rules, and our Ordinary Shares may be moved to NASDAQ Capital Market or delisted. Among other things, if the bid price of our Ordinary Shares is less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days or more, our shares may be moved to be traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market, or be delisted. After the bid price of a company goes below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, NASDAQ provides it a grace period before shares are being moved to be traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market or delisted. Since March 22, 2013, the bid price of our Ordinary Shares has been below $1.00. Our share price has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our Ordinary Shares has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so. The market price of our Ordinary Shares may be significantly affected by factors such as the announcements of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors, technological innovations by us or our competitors or periodic variations in our results of operations. In addition, any statements or changes in estimates by analysts covering our shares or relating to the smart card industry could result in an immediate effect that may be adverse to the market price of our shares. Trading in shares of companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Market in general and trading in shares of technology companies in particular has been subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations that have been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These factors may depress the market price of our Ordinary Shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. Securities litigation has also often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. In the future, we may be the target of similar litigation that could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Our share price could be adversely affected by future sales of our Ordinary Shares. As of April 29, 2013, we had 32,104,312 outstanding Ordinary Shares, 1,178,699 Ordinary Shares we repurchased and are held by us as dormant shares, 371,730 warrants to purchase additional Ordinary Shares at a weighted average exercise price of $2.65 per share and 2,012,116 options to purchase additional Ordinary Shares at a weighted average exercise price of $1.34 per share. We may, in the future, sell or issue additional Ordinary Shares. We have an effective shelf registration statement under which we raised approximately $16.6 million (net of issuance costs) from the public in exchange for 6,000,000 of our Ordinary Shares. The market price of our Ordinary Shares could drop as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our Ordinary Shares in the public market or the perception that such sales may occur, including sales or perceived sales by our directors, officers or principal shareholders. These factors could also make it more difficult to raise additional funds through future offerings of our Ordinary Shares or other securities. 20 Our shareholders could experience dilution of their ownership interest by reason of our issuing more shares. Under Israeli law, shareholders in public companies do not have preemptive rights. This means that our shareholders do not have the legal right to purchase shares in a new issue before they are offered to third parties. In addition, our Board of Directors may approve the issuance of shares in many instances without shareholder approval. As a result, our shareholders could experience dilution of their ownership interest by reason of our raising additional funds through the issuance of Ordinary Shares. In addition, we may continue to acquire companies or businesses in exchange for our shares, resulting in further dilution. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our Ordinary Shares, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of any dividends by the Company is solely at the discretion of our Board of Directors and based on the conditions set forth in the Companies Law. We adopted a Shareholders Rights Plan that may dilute the shares of an “Acquiring Person”. On January 12, 2009, our Board of Directors approved the adoption of a Shareholders Rights Plan, as amended on January 5, 2012, or the Plan. Pursuant to the terms of the Plan, each Ordinary Share of the Company shall give its holder one right, or Right, as detailed in the Plan. Each Right will become exercisable only after a person or a group becomes an “Acquiring Person” by obtaining beneficial ownership of, or by commencing a tender or exchange offer for, 15% or more of our Ordinary Shares (our Board of Directors may reduce this percentage, but not to less than 10%), unless our Board of Directors approves such “Acquiring Person” or redeems the Rights. Each Right, once it becomes exercisable, will generally entitle its holder, other than the “Acquiring Person”, to purchase from the Company either half (1/2), one, two or three Ordinary Shares, as shall be determined by the Board of Directors, in consideration for the par value thereof. Therefore, the Plan may dilute the holding of shareholders who are deemed “Acquiring Persons” under the Plan. In addition, certain institutions may be discouraged from purchasing or holding our Ordinary Shares due to the Plan’s presumed anti-takeover effect. Furthermore, the existence of the Plan may discourage bids to acquire our Company at a price that may be attractive to our shareholders. We may fail to maintain effective internal control in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and in particular with Section 404, have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Although our management has determined that we had effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our future internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our Ordinary Shares. 21 Risks Related to Israel Security, political and economic instability in the Middle East may harm our business. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, security, political and economic conditions in the Middle East in general, and in Israel in particular, may directly affect our business. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. From time to time since late 2000, there has also been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians, which has strained Israel’s relationships with its Arab citizens, with Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. In early 2011, riots and popular uprisings in various countries in the Middle East led to severe and continuing political instability in those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political and trade relationships that exist between the State of Israel and these countries. In addition, this instability may affect the global economy and marketplace. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, would likely negatively affect business conditions and could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, some countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. Restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could have an adverse impact on the expansion of our business. In addition, we could be adversely affected by the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in the rate of inflation, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of key personnel to perform Israeli military service. Some of our executive officers and employees are required to perform annual military reserve duty in Israel and may be called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees due to military service. Any disruption to our operations would harm our business. The Israeli government programs in which we currently participate, and the Israeli tax benefits we currently receive, require us to meet several conditions, and they may be terminated or reduced in the future. This could increase our costs and/or our taxes. We are entitled to certain tax benefits under Israeli government programs, largely as a result of the “Approved Enterprise” status granted to some of our capital investment programs by the Israeli Ministry of Industry and Trade. Taxable income derived from each program is tax exempt for a period of ten years beginning in the year in which the program first generates taxable income, up to 14 years from the date of approval or 12 years from the date of the beginning of production. Without such benefits our taxable income from such programs would be taxed at the regular corporate tax rate (29% in 2007, 27% in 2008, 26% in 2009, 25% in 2010, 24% in 2011, and 25% in 2012 and thereafter). To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions, including making specified investments in property, plant and equipment. We cannot assure you that we will continue to receive these tax benefits at the same rate or at all. The termination or reduction of these programs and tax benefits could increase our taxes and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions relating to our business We received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the OCS, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. We are obligated to pay royalties with respect to the grants received. In addition, the terms of the OCS grants limit our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel if such products or technologies were developed using know-how developed with or based upon OCS grants. Pursuant to the Israeli Encouragement of Research and Development in the Industry Law, we and any non-Israeli who becomes a holder of five percent (5%) or more of our share capital are generally required to notify the OCS and such non-Israeli shareholder is required to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. 22 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Some of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets is located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws in an Israeli court against us or any of these persons or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make undesirable an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. The Companies Law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers, requires special approvals for transactions involving shareholders holding five percent or more of the company’s capital, and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our Ordinary Shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. 