Item 1A. Risk Factors” and in Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 10-K. 1 PART I Item 1. Business. THE COMPANY The Company is an energy and energy services provider offering physical delivery and related services for both electricity and natural gas primarily in the south central United States. The Company conducts these activities through two business segments, the Electric Utility and the Natural Gas Pipeline segments. For financial information regarding these segments, see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Electric Utility segment generates, transmits, distributes and sells electric energy in Oklahoma and western Arkansas. Its operations are conducted through OG&E and are subject to regulation by the OCC, the APSC, and the FERC. OG&E was incorporated in 1902 under the laws of the Oklahoma Territory. OG&E is the largest electric utility in Oklahoma and its franchised service territory includes the Fort Smith, Arkansas area. OG&E sold its retail gas business in 1928 and is no longer engaged in the gas distribution business. The operations of the Natural Gas Pipeline segment are conducted through Enogex Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Enogex”) and consist of three related businesses: (i) the transportation and storage of natural gas, (ii) the gathering and processing of natural gas and (iii) the marketing of natural gas. Enogex’s focus is to utilize its gathering, processing, transportation and storage capacity to execute physical, financial and service transactions to capture margins across different natural gas related commodities, locations or time periods. The vast majority of Enogex’s natural gas gathering, processing, transportation and storage assets are located in the major gas producing basins of Oklahoma. Prior to October 31, 2005, Enogex owned, through a 75 percent interest in the NOARK Pipeline System Limited Partnership (“NOARK”), a controlling interest in and operated Ozark Gas Transmission, L.L.C. (“OGT”), a FERC regulated interstate pipeline that extends from southeast Oklahoma through Arkansas to southeast Missouri. On October 31, 2005, Enogex sold its interest in Enogex Arkansas Pipeline Corporation (“EAPC”), which held its NOARK interest. Also, during the third quarter of 2005, Enogex Compression Company, LLC (“Enogex Compression”) sold it majority interest in Enerven Compression Services, LLC (“Enerven”), a joint venture focused on the rental of natural gas compression assets. In May 2006, Enogex Gas Gathering, L.L.C. (“Gathering”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Enogex Inc., sold certain gas gathering assets in the Kinta, Oklahoma, area (the “Kinta Assets”). The EAPC and Enerven businesses and the sale of the Kinta Assets have been reported as discontinued operations in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and are discussed further in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2006, Enogex entered into a joint venture arrangement with a third party. The joint venture, Atoka Midstream LLC, intends to construct, own and operate a gathering system and processing plant and related facilities relating to production in certain areas in southeastern Oklahoma. Enogex holds its 50 percent membership interest in Atoka Midstream LLC through Enogex Atoka LLC (“Enogex Atoka”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Enogex Inc. Enogex Atoka will act as the managing member and operator of the facilities owned by the joint venture. The Company was incorporated in August 1995 in the state of Oklahoma and its principal executive offices are located at 321 North Harvey, P.O. Box 321, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73101-0321; telephone (405) 553-3000. Company Strategy The Company’s vision is to be a regional utility-focused energy business recognized for operational excellence and strong financial performance. The Company intends to execute its vision by focusing on its regulated electric utility business and unregulated midstream gas business. As explained below, the Company intends to maintain the majority of its assets in the regulated utility business complemented by its natural gas pipeline business. The Company’s long-term financial goals include earnings growth of four to five percent on a weather-normalized basis, an annual total return in the top third of its peer group, dividend growth, maintenance of a dividend payout ratio consistent with its peer group, maintenance of strong credit ratings and appropriate returns on invested capital. The Company believes it can accomplish these financial goals by, among other things, pursuing multiple avenues to build its business, maintaining a diversified asset position, continuing to develop a wide range of skills to succeed with changes in its industries, providing products and services to customers efficiently, managing risks effectively and maintaining strong regulatory and legislative relationships. OG&E has been focused on its Customer Savings and Reliability Plan, which provides for increased investment at the utility to improve reliability and meet load growth, replace infrastructure equipment, replace aging transmission and distribution system and deploy newer technology that improves operational, financial and environmental performance. As part of this plan, OG&E purchased, for approximately $160 million, a 77 percent interest in the 520 megawatt (“MW”) natural gas-fired combined cycle NRG McClain Station (the “McClain Plant”) in July 2004. Capacity payment savings from 2 reduced cogeneration payments and fuel savings from the McClain Plant will be utilized to help mitigate the price increases associated with this investment. Also, as part of this plan, on February 20, 2006, OG&E entered into an agreement to engineer, procure and construct a wind generation energy system for a 120 MW wind farm (“Centennial”) in northwestern Oklahoma. The wind farm was fully in service in January 2007. Through December 31, 2006, OG&E has spent approximately $171.1 million related to the Centennial wind farm. On January 17, 2007, OG&E sent notice to the OCC to trigger the Centennial wind farm rider for the first billing cycle in February 2007. OG&E has announced a six-year construction initiative that is estimated to include up to $3.3 billion in major projects designed to expand capacity, enhance reliability and improve environmental performance. The first part of this initiative involved OG&E entering into an agreement for the proposed construction of a 950 MW coal unit at OG&E’s existing Sooner plant location near Red Rock, Oklahoma. OG&E expects construction to begin in 2007 and is targeting the completion of the power plant in the 2011/2012 timeframe. OG&E’s share of the projected $1.8 billion construction cost for the plant will be about $759 million. OG&E’s six-year construction initiative also includes strengthening and expanding the electric transmission, distribution and substation systems and replacing aging infrastructure. Other projects involve installing new emission-control equipment at existing OG&E power plants to help meet OG&E’s commitment to meet environmental requirements. OG&E also expects to incur a significant amount of capital and operating expenditures in the next several years to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. For additional information regarding the above items and other regulatory matters, see Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Enogex plans to continue to implement improvements to enhance long-term financial performance of its mid-continent assets through more efficient operations and effective commercial management of the assets. In addition, Enogex is seeking to diversify its gathering, processing and transportation businesses principally by expanding into other geographic areas that are complementary with the Company’s strategic capabilities. In August 2006, Enogex completed a project to expand its gathering pipeline capacity on the west side of its system in western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle that should enable Enogex to benefit from growth opportunities in that marketplace. Enogex continues to consider additional opportunities to expand this project. In addition to focusing on growing its earnings, Enogex has reduced its exposure to changes in commodity prices and minimized its exposure to keep-whole processing arrangements. Enogex’s profitability increased significantly from 2003 to 2006 due to the performance improvement plan initiated in 2002 as well as an overall favorable business environment coupled with higher commodity prices. While the Company believes substantial progress has been achieved, additional opportunities remain. Enogex continues to review its work processes, evaluate the rationalization of assets, negotiate better terms for both new contracts and replacement contracts, manage costs and pursue opportunities for organic growth, all in an effort to further improve its cash flow and net income, while at the same time decreasing the volatility associated with commodity prices. Enogex’s marketing business, which concentrates principally on origination of physical sales of natural gas, has expanded into the Gulf Coast and Rocky Mountain markets. Also, Enogex’s marketing business utilizes a strategy that seeks to minimize the amount of capital employed and to complement better the natural gas pipeline business. The Company expects to continue to pursue a disciplined approach to continuous improvement and efficiency of operations. As discussed above, during 2005 and 2006, Enogex sold its interests in EAPC and Enerven and the Kinta Assets and will continue to review its asset portfolio and seek to divest underperforming or non-strategic assets. Also, on December 15, 2006, Enogex announced that it had entered into a firm capacity lease agreement with Midcontinent Express Pipeline, LLC for a primary term of 10 years (subject to possible extensions) for certain capacity on the Enogex system. The leased capacity provided for in this agreement is up to 0.5 billion cubic feet (“Bcf”) per day and is dependent on the shipper volumes that commit to the project. The Enogex capacity will be a part of the proposed Midcontinent Express Pipeline (“MEP”), a joint venture between Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. and Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. In addition to the Enogex leased capacity, the proposed MEP project includes a new pipeline originating near Bennington, Oklahoma and terminating in Butler, Alabama. Pending necessary regulatory approval, the MEP pipeline project is currently expected to be in service by February 2009. Depending on the final capacity that MEP subscribes to pursuant to the agreement, Enogex expects its revenues from this firm capacity lease agreement to be between $12 million and $30 million annually. Enogex currently estimates that its capital expenditures related to this project during the next two to three years could be approximately $100 million. The Enogex lease agreement with MEP is subject to certain contingencies including regulatory approval. Prior to such approval, Enogex may incur expenditures of between approximately $20 million and $40 million with the majority being for certain commitments for materials that can be sold or used in normal operations in the event the MEP project does not proceed and the amount not recovered or utilized for such expenditures is not expected to be material. Enogex also is seeking to provide lease capacity to Boardwalk’s Gulf Crossings project. Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, has announced plans to build the Gulf Crossings pipeline, which includes 355 miles of new interstate natural gas pipeline. It initially is expected to transport gas from the supply areas in Sherman, Texas, Bennington, Oklahoma, and Paris, Texas to the Perryville, Louisiana Hub. Subject to regulatory approvals, the Gulf Crossings project is expected to be in service during the fourth quarter of 2008. The Company’s business strategy is to continue maintaining the diversified asset position of OG&E and Enogex so as to provide competitive energy products and services to customers primarily in the south central United States. The 3 Company will continue to focus on those products and services with limited or manageable commodity exposure. In addition to the incremental growth opportunities that Enogex provides, the Company believes that many of the risk management practices, commercial skills and market information available from Enogex provide value to all of the Company’s businesses. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Overview” for a further discussion. ELECTRIC OPERATIONS - OG&E General The Electric Utility segment generates, transmits, distributes and sells electric energy in Oklahoma and western Arkansas. Its operations are conducted through OG&E. OG&E furnishes retail electric service in 269 communities and their contiguous rural and suburban areas. During 2006, five other communities and two rural electric cooperatives in Oklahoma and western Arkansas purchased electricity from OG&E for resale. The service area, with an estimated population of 2.0 million, covers approximately 30,000 square miles in Oklahoma and western Arkansas, including Oklahoma City, the largest city in Oklahoma, and Fort Smith, Arkansas, the second largest city in that state. Of the 269 communities that OG&E serves, 243 are located in Oklahoma and 26 in Arkansas. OG&E derived approximately 89 percent of its total electric operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 from sales in Oklahoma and the remainder from sales in Arkansas. OG&E’s system control area peak demand as reported by the system dispatcher during 2006 was approximately 6,473 MW’s on August 10, 2006. OG&E’s load responsibility peak demand was approximately 6,033 MW’s on August 10, 2006. As reflected in the table below and in the operating statistics on page 5, there were approximately 26.4 million megawatt-hour (“MWH”) sales to OG&E’s customers (“system sales”) in 2006 as compared to approximately 26.0 million in 2005 and 24.7 million in 2004. System sales increased approximately 1.5 percent in 2006 primarily due to warmer weather during 2006. Variations in system sales for the three years are reflected in the following table: Year ended December 31 (In millions) 2006 Increase 2005 Increase 2004 Decrease System Sales (A) 26.4 1.5% 26.0 5.3% 24.7 (1.2)% (A) Sales are in millions of MWH’s. OG&E is subject to competition in various degrees from government-owned electric systems, municipally-owned electric systems, rural electric cooperatives and, in certain respects, from other private utilities, power marketers and cogenerators. Oklahoma law forbids the granting of an exclusive franchise to a utility for providing electricity. In a citywide election in May 2006, Oklahoma City voters approved a 25-year franchise for OG&E, which as noted above is the largest city in OG&E’s service territory. Besides competition from other suppliers or marketers of electricity, OG&E competes with suppliers of other forms of energy. The degree of competition between suppliers may vary depending on relative costs and supplies of other forms of energy. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the potential impact on competition from federal and state legislation. 4 OKLAHOMA GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY CERTAIN OPERATING STATISTICS Year ended December 31 (In millions) 2006 2005 2004 ELECTRIC ENERGY (Millions of MWH) Generation (exclusive of station use) 24.6 24.8 22.6 Purchased 3.9 3.3 4.2 Total generated and purchased 28.5 28.1 26.8 Company use, free service and losses (2.1) (2.0) (2.0) Electric energy sold 26.4 26.1 24.8 ELECTRIC ENERGY SOLD (Millions of MWH) Residential 8.7 8.5 7.9 Commercial 6.2 6.0 5.7 Industrial 7.1 7.2 7.0 Public authorities 2.9 2.8 2.7 Sales for resale 1.5 1.5 1.4 System sales 26.4 26.0 24.7 Off-system sales --- 0.1 0.1 Total sales 26.4 26.1 24.8 ELECTRIC OPERATING REVENUES (In millions) Residential $ 698.8 $ 663.6 $ 611.4 Commercial 428.3 418.9 389.9 Industrial 345.0 355.6 326.7 Public authorities 171.0 173.1 158.5 Sales for resale 65.4 67.7 57.0 Provision for rate refund (0.9) (2.0) (6.9) System sales revenues 1,707.6 1,676.9 1,536.6 Off-system sales revenues 2.7 4.9 0.8 Other 35.4 38.9 40.7 Total Electric Operating Revenues $ 1,745.7 $ 1,720.7 $ 1,578.1 ACTUAL NUMBER OF ELECTRIC CUSTOMERS (At end of period) Residential 647,548 639,733 630,736 Commercial 82,974 81,728 80,786 Industrial 9,505 9,472 9,420 Public authorities 14,769 14,515 14,022 Sales for resale 44 45 44 Total 754,840 745,493 735,008 AVERAGE RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER SALES Average annual revenue $ 1,084.31 $ 1,043.60 $ 975.08 Average annual use (kilowatt-hour (“KWH”)) 13,526 13,455 12,630 Average price per KWH (cents) $ 8.02 $ 7.76 $ 7.72 5 Regulation and Rates OG&E’s retail electric tariffs are regulated by the OCC in Oklahoma and by the APSC in Arkansas. The issuance of certain securities by OG&E is also regulated by the OCC and the APSC. OG&E’s wholesale electric tariffs, short-term borrowing authorization and accounting practices are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC. The Secretary of the Department of Energy has jurisdiction over some of OG&E’s facilities and operations. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 87 percent of OG&E’s electric revenue was subject to the jurisdiction of the OCC, nine percent to the APSC and four percent to the FERC. The OCC issued an order in 1996 authorizing OG&E to reorganize into a subsidiary of the Company. The order required that, among other things, (i) the Company permit the OCC access to the books and records of the Company and its affiliates relating to transactions with OG&E; (ii) the Company employ accounting and other procedures and controls to protect against subsidization of non-utility activities by OG&E’s customers; and (iii) the Company refrain from pledging OG&E assets or income for affiliate transactions. In addition, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 enacted the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, which in turn granted to the FERC access to the books and records of the Company and its affiliates as the FERC deems relevant to costs incurred by OG&E or necessary or appropriate for the protection of utility customers with respect to the FERC jurisdictional rates. OG&E has been and will continue to be affected by competitive changes to the utility industry. Significant changes already have occurred and additional changes are being proposed to the wholesale electric market. Although it appears unlikely in the near future that changes will occur to retail regulation in the states served by OG&E due to the significant problems faced by other states in their electric deregulation efforts and other factors, significant changes are possible, which could significantly change the manner in which OG&E conducts its business. These developments at the federal and state levels are described in more detail in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent Regulatory Matters OG&E Wind Power Filing. On February 20, 2006, OG&E entered into an agreement to engineer, procure and construct the 120 MW Centennial wind farm planned for construction in northwestern Oklahoma. The wind farm was fully in service in January 2007. Through December 31, 2006, OG&E has spent approximately $171.1 million related to the Centennial wind farm. On April 28, 2006, the OCC approved a settlement agreement approving the wind power contract and a recovery rider for up to $205 million in construction costs and allowance for funds used during construction. The settlement also indicated that OG&E shall file for a general rate review during 2009 that will permit the OCC to issue an order no later than December 31, 2009 placing the Centennial wind farm in OG&E’s rate base. On January 17, 2007, OG&E sent notice to the OCC to trigger the Centennial wind farm rider for the first billing cycle in February 2007. The recovery rider is designed to recover approximately $22.6 million in the first year of operations, which amount will decline over the life of the facility. Because the wind farm rider was implemented in February 2007, OG&E expects to recover approximately $20.7 million under the rider during the remaining 11 months of 2007. OG&E expects the recovery rider to remain in effect through late 2009. As explained below, the recent rate order from the APSC allows for the recovery of the portion of the Centennial wind farm allocable to OG&E’s customers in Arkansas. OG&E Arkansas Rate Case Filing. On July 28, 2006, OG&E filed with the APSC an application for an annual rate increase of approximately $13.5 million to recover, among other things, its investment in, and the operating expenses of, the McClain Plant, the Centennial wind power project and the costs of electric system expansion and upgrades based on a return on equity of 11.75 percent. On November 29, 2006, OG&E reached a settlement with the other parties in this case for an annual rate increase of approximately $5.4 million. In the settlement agreement, the parties also agreed that OG&E would be allowed to recover the full Arkansas portion of the Centennial wind farm. On January 5, 2007, the APSC approved the settlement and issued a rate order that provides for a $5.4 million annual increase in OG&E’s electric rates and a 10.0 percent return on equity. The new Arkansas rates became effective in February 2007. Proposed Construction of Power Plant. On July 18, 2006, the Company announced plans for OG&E to partner with American Electric Power’s subsidiary, Public Service Company of Oklahoma (“PSO”), and the Oklahoma Municipal Power Authority (“OMPA”) to build a new 950 MW coal unit at OG&E’s existing Sooner plant location near Red Rock, Oklahoma. The estimated $1.8 billion project is the result of PSO’s December 2005 request for proposals in which it sought bids for up to 600 MW’s of new base load generation to be available to PSO. The unit, to be called Red Rock, is expected to be one of the cleanest of its size using coal from the Powder River Basin, which is located near Gillette, Wyoming. OG&E will operate the facility and expects to spend approximately $759 million in construction costs related to its 42 percent ownership percentage in the project and approximately $30 million in transmission costs for the project. PSO will own 50 percent and the OMPA will own eight percent. On December 1, 2006, OG&E submitted an application to the Oklahoma 6 Department of Environmental Quality (“ODEQ”) for an air permit for the Red Rock plant. OG&E is seeking to have the air permit approved by the ODEQ by August 1, 2007. OG&E expects construction to begin in 2007 and is targeting the completion of the power plant in the 2011/2012 timeframe. OG&E filed an application with the OCC on January 17, 2007 asking the OCC to find that its portion of the construction costs are prudent and that a recovery mechanism should be established to recover OG&E’s overall cost of capital on the investment during the construction period. The OCC rules provide that the OCC has up to 240 days to issue an order determining OG&E’s pre-approval request, however OG&E’s application requested that the OCC issue an order by July 20, 2007. The project is contingent upon numerous factors, including the successful completion of contract negotiations and the necessary regulatory and environmental approvals. Under the construction, ownership and operating agreement between OG&E, PSO and the OMPA, the parties could incur up to $60 million (of which approximately $25 million would be borne by OG&E) prior to the receipt of acceptable regulatory approvals and permits. If such approvals and permits were not obtained and the Red Rock project was abandoned, the Company can provide no assurance that these expenditures incurred by OG&E would be recoverable in future rates. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of certain regulatory matters including, among other things, the gas transportation and storage contract between OG&E and Enogex, OG&E’s 2005 Oklahoma rate case order, security enhancements, national energy legislation and state legislative initiatives. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities OG&E, as a regulated utility, is subject to the accounting principles prescribed by SFAS No. 71. SFAS No. 71 provides that certain actual or anticipated costs that would otherwise be charged to expense can be deferred as regulatory assets, based on the expected recovery from customers in future rates. Likewise, certain actual or anticipated credits that would otherwise reduce expense can be deferred as regulatory liabilities, based on the expected flowback to customers in future rates. Management’s expected recovery of deferred costs and flowback of deferred credits generally results from specific decisions by regulators granting such ratemaking treatment. OG&E records certain actual or anticipated costs and obligations as regulatory assets or liabilities if it is probable, based on regulatory orders or other available evidence, that the cost or obligation will be included in amounts allowable for recovery or refund in future rates. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, OG&E had regulatory assets of approximately $319.2 million and $189.2 million, respectively, and regulatory liabilities of approximately $224.5 million and $118.1 million, respectively. See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion. As discussed in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, legislation was enacted in Oklahoma that was to restructure the electric utility industry in that state. The implementation of the Oklahoma restructuring legislation has been delayed and seems unlikely to proceed during the near future. Yet, if and when implemented, this legislation could deregulate OG&E’s electric generation assets and cause OG&E to discontinue the use of SFAS No. 71 with respect to its related regulatory balances. The previously-enacted Oklahoma legislation would not affect OG&E’s electric transmission and distribution assets and OG&E believes that the continued use of SFAS No. 71 with respect to the related regulatory balances is appropriate. Based on a current evaluation of the various factors and conditions that are expected to impact future cost recovery, management believes that its regulatory assets, including those related to generation, are probable of future recovery. Rate Structures Oklahoma OG&E has had several different customer programs and rate options. The Guaranteed Flat Bill (“GFB”) option for residential and small general service accounts allows qualifying customers the opportunity to purchase their electricity needs at a set price for an entire year. Budget-minded customers that desire a fixed monthly bill may benefit from the GFB option. The GFB option received OCC approval for permanent rate status in OG&E’s rate case completed in December 2005. A second tariff rate option provides a “renewable energy” resource to OG&E’s Oklahoma retail customers. This renewable energy resource is a wind power purchase program and is available as a voluntary option to all of OG&E’s Oklahoma retail customers. OG&E’s ownership and access to wind resources makes the renewable wind power option a possible choice in meeting the renewable energy needs of our conservation-minded customers and provides the customers with a means to reduce their exposure to increased prices for natural gas used by OG&E as boiler fuel. A third rate offering available to commercial and industrial customers is levelized demand billing. This program is beneficial for medium to large size customers with seasonally consistent demand levels who wish to reduce the variability of their monthly electric bills. 7 Another program being offered to OG&E’s commercial and industrial customers is a voluntary load curtailment program. This program provides customers with the opportunity to curtail on a voluntary basis when OG&E’s system conditions merit curtailment action. Customers that curtail their usage will receive payment for their curtailment response. This voluntary curtailment program seeks customers that can curtail on most curtailment event days, but may not be able to curtail every time that a curtailment event is required. The previously discussed rate options coupled with OG&E’s other rate choices provide many tariff options for OG&E’s Oklahoma retail customers. OG&E’s rate choices, reduction in cogeneration rates, acquisition of additional generation resources and overall low costs of production and deliverability are expected to provide valuable benefits for our customers for many years to come. The revenue impacts associated with these options are indeterminate in future years since customers may choose to remain on existing rate options instead of volunteering for the new rate option choices. There was no overall material impact in 2005 or 2006 associated with these rate options, but revenue variations may occur in the future based upon changes in customers’ usage characteristics if they choose these programs. As part of the rate order issued by the OCC in December 2005, OG&E received OCC approval for the creation of two new rate classes, Public Schools-Demand and Public Schools Non-Demand. These two classes of service will provide OG&E flexibility to provide targeted programs for load management to public schools and their unique usage patterns. Another item approved in the order was the creation of service level fuel differentiation that allows customers to pay fuel costs that better reflect operational energy losses related to a specific service level. The OCC order also approved a military base rider that demonstrates Oklahoma’s continued commitment to our military partners. Arkansas Energy efficiency hearings are also currently being held by the APSC for all Arkansas utilities. These hearings are expected to lead to various conservation options and programs in the near future and result in better use of energy resources. Fuel Supply During 2006, approximately 67 percent of the OG&E-generated energy was produced by coal-fired units and 33 percent by natural gas-fired units. Of OG&E’s 6,079 total MW capability reflected in the table under 