D. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, among others, could in the future affect our actual results of operations and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. Before you decide to buy, hold, or sell our ordinary shares, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this annual report. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs. In that event, the market price for our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 7 Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and we may continue to incur full-year losses in 2010 and in subsequent years. We have incurred losses in each year since we commenced operations in 1990. We reported net losses attributable to shareholders of $9.1 million in 2005, $6.6 million in 2006, $20.6 million in 2007, $50.0 million in 2008 (including a goodwill impairment charge of $24.2 million) and $23.2 million in 2009. We may continue to incur full year losses in 2010 and afterwards, as we invest in the expansion of our global marketing network, reduce our product prices in return for transaction fees based on the volume of transactions in systems that contain our products, invest in fixed assets that may generate revenues slowly than expected and enhance our research and development capabilities. If the market for smart cards in general, and for contactless microprocessor-based smart cards in particular, does not grow, sales of our products may not grow and may even decline. The success of our products depends on commercial enterprises, governmental authorities and other potential card issuers adopting contactless microprocessor-based smart card technologies. Other card technologies, such as magnetic strips or bar codes, are widely used and could be viewed by potential customers as more cost effective alternatives to our products. Additionally, potential customers in developed countries such as the United States may already have installed systems that are based on technologies different from ours and may therefore be less willing to incur the capital expenditures required to install or upgrade to a contactless microprocessor-based smart card system. As a result, we cannot assure you that there will be significant market opportunities for contactless microprocessor-based smart card products. If demand for con tactless microprocessor-based smart card products such as ours does not develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may have fewer opportunities for growth than we expect. If we fail to develop new products or adapt our existing products for use in new markets, our revenue growth may be impeded and we may incur significant losses. To date, we have sold products incorporating our technology within a limited number of markets. We are devoting significant resources to developing new products and adapting our existing products for use in new markets, such as mobile payment solutions, parking solutions, medical cards for use in hospitals and identity cards for use by governmental authorities. If we fail to develop new products or adapt our existing products for new markets, we may not recoup the expenses incurred in our efforts to do so, our revenue growth may be impeded and we may incur significant losses. We have acquired several companies or groups of companies and we intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future. The failure to successfully integrate acquired companies and businesses or to acquire new companies and businesses may harm our financial performance and growth. During the last few years we acquired several companies around the world. We paid for all of these acquisitions through the issuance of our ordinary shares (and in certain cases, warrants to purchase ordinary shares and cash consideration). These and future acquisitions could result in: · difficulties in integrating our operations, technologies, products and services with those of the acquired companies; · difficulty in integrating operations that are spread across significant geographic distances; · diversion of our capital and our management's attention away from other business issues; · potential loss of key employees and customers of companies we acquire; · increased liabilities as a result of liabilities of the companies we acquire; and · dilution of shareholdings in the event we acquire companies in exchange for our shares. We may not successfully integrate all technologies, manufacturing facilities or distribution channels that we have or may acquire and we cannot assure you that any of our recent acquisitions will be successful. In addition, if we do not acquire new companies and businesses in the future, our business may not grow as expected. If any of our recent or future acquisitions are not successful, our financial performance and business may be adversely affected. 8 Our dependence on third party distributors, sales agents, and value-added resellers could result in marketing and distribution delays which would prevent us from generating sales revenues. We market and sell some of our products using a network of distributors covering several major world regions, including the United States. We establish relationships with distributors and resellers through written agreements that provide prices, discounts and other material terms and conditions under which the reseller is eligible to purchase our systems and products for resale. These agreements generally do not grant exclusivity to the distributors and resellers and, as a general matter, are fixed-term contracts, do not always have commitments for minimum sales and can be terminated by the distributor. We are currently engaged in discussions with other potential distributors, sales agents, and value-added resellers. Such arrangements may never be finalized and, if finalized, such arrangements may not increase our revenues or enable us to achieve profitability. Our ability to terminate our relationship with a distributor that is not performing satisfactorily may be limited. Inadequate performance by a distributor may affect our ability to develop markets in the regions for which the distributor is responsible and could result in substantially greater expenditures by us in order to develop such markets. Our operating results will be highly dependent upon: (i) our ability to maintain our existing distributor arrangements; (ii) our ability to establish and maintain coverage of major geographic areas and establish access to customers and markets; and (iii) the ability of our distributors, sales agents, and value-added resellers to successfully market our products. A failure to achieve these objectives could result in lower revenues. Our revenue growth may be impaired if we are unable to maintain our current, and establish new, strategic relationships. The markets for our products are usually highly specialized and require us to enter into strategic relationships in order to facilitate or accelerate our penetration into new markets. We consider a relationship to be strategic when we integrate our technology into some of the product offerings of a manufacturer or systems integrator that has a significant position in a specified market, and then we cooperate in marketing the resulting product. The termination of any of our strategic relationships or our failure to develop additional relationships in the future may limit our ability to expand the markets in which our products are deployed or to sell particular products. The terms of certain of our agreements may restrict our ability to take actions that we believe to be desirable. Pursuant to certain agreements we have entered into with our suppliers, distributors and joint venture partners, we have agreed to restrict ourselves in some areas of business for different time periods, ranging from several months to several years. In addition, in certain markets, we sell our products through distributors which, in general, have exclusive distribution rights in that market if specified sales quotas are met. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition if these partners do not perform in a satisfactory manner. We face intense competition. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business prospects will be impaired. We face intense competition from developers of contact and contactless microprocessor-based technologies and products, developers of contactless products that use other types of technologies that are not microprocessor-based, and non-smart card technologies. We compete on the basis of a range of competitive factors including price, compatibility with the products of other manufacturers, and the ability to support new industry standards and introduce new reliable technologies. Many of our competitors, including NXP Semiconductors (previously Philips Semiconductors), and Infineon Technologies AG have greater market recognition, larger customer bases, and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we possess. As a result, they may be able to introduce new products, respond to customer requi rements and adapt to evolving industry standards more quickly than we can. In addition, we may not be able to differentiate our products sufficiently from those of our competitors. From time to time, we or one or more of our present or future competitors may announce new or enhanced products or technologies that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of our existing products. The announcement of new or enhanced products may cause customers to delay or alter their purchasing decisions in anticipation of such products, and new products developed by our competitors may render our products obsolete or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. If we cannot compete successfully with our existing and future competitors, we could experience lower sales, price reductions, loss of revenues, reduced gross margins and reduced market share. 9 If there is a sustained increase in demand for microprocessors, availability might be limited and prices might increase. Our products require microprocessors. The microprocessor industry periodically experiences increased demand and limited availability due to production capacity constraints. Increased demand for, or limited availability of, microprocessors could substantially increase the cost of producing our products. Because some of our customer contracts have fixed prices, we may not be able to pass on any increases in costs to these customers, and consequently our profit margin could be reduced. In addition, as a result of a shortage, we may be compelled to delay shipments of our products, or devote additional resources to maintaining higher levels of microprocessor inventory. Consequently, we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our cost of revenues and, therefore, in our future results of operations. Our products have long development cycles and we may expend significant resources in relation to a specific project without realizing any revenues. The development cycle for our products varies from project to project. Typically, the projects in which we are involved are complex and require that we customize our products to our customers’ needs and specifications in return for payment of a fixed amount. We then conduct evaluation, testing, implementation and acceptance procedures of the customized products with the customer. Only after successful completion of these procedures will customers place orders for our products in commercial quantities. In addition, our sales contracts do not typically include minimum purchase requirements. We, therefore, cannot assure that future contracts will result in commercial sales. Our average development cycle is typically between 18 and 24 months from initial contact with a potential customer until we deliver commercial quantities to the cu stomer and recognize significant revenues. As a result, we may expend financial, management and other resources to develop customer relationships before we recognize any revenues. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance may create volatility in the market price of our shares and may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied substantially in the past and may do so in the future. These fluctuations may be driven by various factors which are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and may not meet the expectations of analysts and investors. These factors include the following: · The size and timing of orders placed by our government customers is difficult to predict. Government projects typically involve a protracted competitive procurement process and in some circumstances litigation following the award of a contract. For example, we started to prepare our offer for the Israeli national electronic parking system project in 1992, we were awarded the contract in May 1998 and deployment began in January 2000. We started recognizing revenues in the second half of 2000. · The fact that our rental expenses are fixed and we may not be able to reduce these expenses in the event of a reduction in revenues in a particular quarter. In addition, our payroll expenses are relatively fixed and we would not expect to reduce our workforce due to a reduction in revenues in any particular quarter. · The tendency of our clients to place orders for products toward the last quarter of their financial year. Because of these factors, our revenues and operating results in any quarter may not be indicative of our future performance, and it may be difficult for you to evaluate our prospects. Delays or discontinuance of the supply of components may hamper our ability to produce our products on a timely basis and cause short-term adverse effects. The components we use in our products, including microprocessors and cards, are supplied by third party suppliers and manufacturers. We sometimes experience short-term adverse effects due to delayed shipments that have in the past interrupted and delayed, and could in the future interrupt and delay, the supply of our products to our customers, and may result in cancellation of orders for our products. However, other than our supply agreement with SMARTRAC N.V. as described below, we do not generally have long-term supply contracts under which our suppliers are committed to supply us with components at fixed or defined prices. Suppliers could increase component prices significantly without warning or could discontinue the manufacturing or supply of components used in our products. We may not be able to develop alternative sourc es for product components if and as required in the future. Even if we are able to identify alternative sources of supply, we may need to modify our products to render them compatible with other components. This may cause delays in product shipments, increase manufacturing costs and increase product prices. In connection with the sale of MCT's assets and other assets of OTI, we entered into a long-term supply agreement with SMARTRAC N.V. (as is more fully described in Item 10 C. "Material Contracts"), under which SMARTRAC N.V. became our exclusive supplier for wire-embedded and dual interface inlays, according to our needs, and our supplier for other products, at defined terms and prices. The potential adverse effects of dependence in third party suppliers apply in this case to a higher extent. 10 Because some of our suppliers are located in Europe and the Far East, we may experience logistical problems in our supply chain, including long lead times for receipt of products or components and shipping delays. In addition, our subcontractors may, on occasion, feel the impact of potential economic or political instability in their regions, which could affect their ability to supply us with components for our products in a timely manner. If we fail to hire, train and retain qualified research and development personnel, our ability to enhance our existing products, develop new products and compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to hire, train and retain qualified research and development personnel. Individuals who have expertise in research and development in our industry are scarce. Competition for such personnel in the electronics industry is intense, particularly in Israel. Consequently, hiring, training and retaining such personnel is both time consuming and expensive. In addition, it may be difficult to attract qualified personnel to Rosh Pina, which is in the north of Israel. If we fail to hire, train and retain employees with skills in research and development, we may not be able to enhance our existing products or develop new products. Our ability to compete depends on our continuing right to use, and our ability to protect, our intellectual property rights. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part on using our intellectual property and proprietary rights to protect our technology and products. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, design, copyright and trade secret law, as well as confidentiality agreements and other contractual relationships with our employees, customers, affiliates, distributors and others. While substantially all of our employees are subject to non-compete agreements, these agreements may be difficult to enforce as a result of Israeli law limiting the scope of employee non-competition undertakings. We currently have patents registered in the United States, Israel and other countries covering some of our technology, and have pending applications in the United States, Europe, the Far East, Israel and elsewhere which have not yet resulted in granted patents. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued with respect to any of our pending or future patent applications or that the scope of our existing patents, or any future patents that are issued to us, will provide us with adequate protection for our technology and products. Others may challenge our patents or registered trademarks. We do not know whether any of them will be upheld as valid or will be enforceable against alleged infringers. Thus we do not know whether they will enable us to prevent or hinder the development of competing products or technologies. Moreover, patents provide legal protection only in the countries where they are registered and the extent of the protection granted by patents varies from country to country. The measures we have taken to protect our technology and products may not be sufficient to prevent their misappropriation by third parties or independent development by others of similar technologies or products. Competitors may also develop competing technology by designing around our patents and thereafter manufacturing and selling products that compete directly with ours. In order to protect our technology and products and enforce our patents and other proprietary rights, we may need to initiate, prosecute or defend litigation and other proceedings before courts and patent and trademark offices in numerous countries. These legal and administrative proceedings could be expensive and could occupy significant management time and resources. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. It is not always possible to know with certainty whether or not the manufacture and sale of our products does or will infringe patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. For example, patent applications may be pending at any time which, if granted, cover products that we developed or are developing. In certain jurisdictions, the subject matter of patents is not published until the patents are issued. Third parties may from time to time claim that our products infringe on their patent or other intellectual property rights. In addition, if third parties claim that our customers are violating their intellectual property rights, our customers may seek indemnification from us (which could be costly), or may terminate their relationships with us. Our products depend on operating systems licensed to us and we may also be subject to claims by third parties that our use of these operating systems infringes on their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claim could involve time-consuming and disruptive litigation that, if determined adversely to us, could prevent us from making or selling our products, subject us to substantial monetary damages or require us to seek licenses. 11 Intellectual property rights litigation is complex and costly, and we cannot be sure of the outcome of any litigation. Even if we prevail, the cost of litigation could harm our results of operations. In addition, litigation is time consuming and could divert our management’s attention and resources away from our business. If we do not prevail in any litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we might be required to discontinue the use of certain processes, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products and solutions, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses on unfavorable terms. Licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, some licenses are non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or cannot design around any third party patents or otherwise avoid infringements, we may be unable to sell some of our products. The loss of the services of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Oded Bashan, could seriously harm our business. Our success depends, in part, on the continued services of Oded Bashan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Bashan is one of our founders and has developed our business and technology strategy since our inception. The loss of services of Mr. Bashan could disrupt our operations and harm our business. We are susceptible to changes in international markets and difficulties with international operations could harm our business. We have derived revenues from different geographical areas. The following table sets forth our sales in different geographical areas as a percentage of revenues: Africa Europe Far East Americas Israel 2005 12 29 6 43 10 2006 9 41 17 24 9 2007 13 50 5 21 11 2008 15 48 10 15 12 2009 12 37 8 31 12 Our ability to maintain our position in existing markets and to penetrate new, regional and local markets, is dependent, in part, on the stability of regional and local economies. Our regional sales may continue to fluctuate widely and may be adversely impacted by future political or economic instability in these or other foreign countries or regions. In addition, there are inherent risks in these international operations which include: · changes in regulatory requirements and communications standards; · required licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; · difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights across, or having to litigate disputes in, various jurisdictions; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex laws and treaties in various jurisdictions. If we are unable to manage the risks associated with our focus on international sales, our business may be harmed. 12 Because we report in dollars while a portion of our revenues and expenses is incurred in other currencies, currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We generate a significant portion of our revenues in U.S. dollars but we incur a large portion of our expenses in other currencies, principally some employees’ salaries in New Israeli Shekels, and the majority of the expenses of our German, French and Polish subsidiaries, InterCard, InSeal, PARX France and ASEC, in euros, of our subsidiary in South Africa, OTI Africa, in South-African Rands and of our subsidiary in the Far East, MCT (the assets of which we sold during the forth quarter of 2009), in Yuan Renminbi. To the extent that we and our subsidiaries based in Israel, Europe, South-Africa and the Far East conduct our business in different currencies, our revenues and expenses and, as a result, our assets and liabilities, are not necessarily accounted for in the same currency. We are, therefore, exposed to foreign currency ex change rate fluctuations. These fluctuations may negatively affect our results of operations. Our operations could also be adversely affected if we are unable to limit our exposure to currency fluctuations in the future. Accordingly, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the New Israeli Shekel or other currencies. However, these measures may not adequately protect us from material adverse effects resulting from currency fluctuations. In addition, if we wish to maintain the dollar-denominated value of sales made in other currencies, any devaluation of the other currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would require us to increase our other currency denominated selling prices. That could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders. We may have to adapt our products in order to integrate them into our customers’ systems if new government regulations or industry standards are adopted or current regulations or standards are changed. Some of our products are subject to government regulation in the countries in which they are used. For example, card readers used in the United States and in Europe require certification of compliance with regulations of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission and the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, respectively, regarding emission limits of radio frequency devices. In addition, governmental certification for the systems into which our products are integrated may be required. The International Standards Organization is in the process of approving industry standards regulating the transfer of data between contactless smart cards and a reader. If there is a change in government regulations or industry standards, we may have to make significant modifications to our products and, as a result, could incur significant costs and may be unable to deploy our products in a timely manner. In addition, prior to purchasing our products, some customers may require us to receive or obtain a third party certification, or occasionally certify ourselves, that our products can be integrated successfully into their systems or comply with applicable regulations. Receipt of third party certifications may not occur in a timely manner or at all. In some cases, in order for our products, or for the system into which they are integrated, to be certified, we may have to make significant product modifications. Failure to receive third party certifications could render us unable to deploy our products in a timely manner or at all. Our products may contain defects that are only discovered after the products have been deployed. This could harm our reputation, result in loss of customers and revenues and subject us to product liability claims. Our products are highly technical and deployed as part of large and complex projects. Because of the nature of our products, they can only be fully tested when fully deployed. For example, the testing of our parking payment product required the distribution of sample parking payment cards to drivers, installation of electronic kiosks at which a card holder can increase the balance on his or her card, linking of kiosks to financial and parking databases, collection of data through handheld terminals, processing of data that is collected by the system, compilation of reports and clearing of parking transactions. Any defects in our products could result in: · harm to our reputation; · loss of, or delay in, revenues; · loss of customers and market share; · failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products; and · unexpected expenses to remedy errors. 13 In addition, we could be exposed to potential product liability claims. While we currently maintain product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that this insurance will be sufficient to cover any successful product liability claim. Any product liability claim could result in changes to our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of a large deductible or co-insurance requirements. Any product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of our cash reserves. Furthermore, the assertion of product liability claims, regardless of the merits underlying the claim, could result in substantial costs to us, divert management’s attention away from our operations and damage our reputation. We have sought government contracts in the past and may seek additional government contracts in the future, which subjects us to certain risks associated with such types of contracts. Most government contracts are awarded through a competitive bidding process, and some of the business that we expect to seek in the future likely will be subject to a competitive bidding process. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including: · the frequent need to compete against companies or teams of companies with more financial and marketing resources and more experience than we have in bidding on and performing major contracts; · the need to compete against companies or teams of companies that may be long-term, entrenched incumbents for a particular contract we are competing for and which have, as a result, greater domain expertise and established customer relations; · the need to compete on occasion to retain existing contracts that have in the past been awarded to us on a sole-source basis; · the substantial cost and managerial time and effort necessary to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; · the need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any fixed-price contract that we are awarded; and · the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge new contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding or subsequent contract modifications, and the risk that any of these protests or challenges could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. We may not be afforded the opportunity in the future to bid on contracts that are held by other companies and are scheduled to expire if the government determines to extend the existing contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through the competitive bidding process, we may not be able to operate in the market for products and services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to win new contract awards or retain those contracts, if any, that we are awarded over any extended period, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, government contracts subject us to risks associated with tender processes (which many times include, third party challenges, long qualification period), public budgetary restrictions and uncertainties, actual contracts that are less than awarded contract amounts, and cancellation at any time at the option of the government (sometimes due to challenges by third parties). Any failure to comply with the terms of any government contracts could result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as suspension from future contracts for a significant period of time, any of which could adversely affect our business by requiring us to pay significant fines and penalties or prevent us from earning revenues from government contracts during the suspension period. Cancellation of any one of our major government contracts, could have a m aterial adverse effect on our financial condition. The government may be in a position to obtain greater rights with respect to our intellectual property than we would grant to other entities. Government agencies also have the power, based on financial difficulties or investigations of their contractors, to deem contractors unsuitable for new contract awards. Because we will engage in the government contracting business, we will be subject to audits and may be subject to investigation by governmental entities. Failure to comply with the terms of any government contracts could result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as suspension from future government contracts for a significant period of time, any of which could adversely affect our business by requiring us to spend money to pay the fines and penalties and prohibiting us from earning revenues from governmen t contracts during the suspension period. 14 Delays in the implementation stage in some of the projects we are involved with may prevent us from generating sales revenues as expected in the year. In 2007, 2008 and 2009 we experienced delays in some of the projects we are involved with – for example in our joint venture selling electronic travel document inlays for the Chinese government we have experienced delays in the project implementation. Delays in other projects might occur as a result of factors that are beyond our control such as customer readiness or shortage in purchased components needed for project implementation as well as our readiness to implement the projects. If such delays occur in the future it might affect our revenues, profitability and our share price. The general economic outlook may adversely affect our business. The Company’s operations and performance depend on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of business and public spending, which have deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. This may adversely affect the budgeting and purchasing behavior of our customers and our potential customers, including shifting customers purchasing patterns to lower-cost options, which could adversely affect our product sales. In addition, although economic conditions in many countries have stabilized somewhat following the widespread contraction in late 2008 and 2009, continuing uncertainties in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers, suppliers, distributors and resellers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and to perform their contractual obligations with us. As a result, we could encounter, among other adverse effects, a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products, and an increase in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable being required. We derive a portion of our revenues from sales to systems integrators that are not the end-users of our products. We are to a certain extent dependent on the ability of these integrators to maintain their existing business and secure new business. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, 10%, 11% and 9%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales to systems integrators that incorporate our products into systems which they supply and install for use in a specific project. To the extent our revenues depend on the ability of systems integrators to successfully market, sell, install and provide technical support for systems in which our products are integrated or to sell our products on a stand-alone basis, our revenues may decline if the efforts of these systems integrators fail. Further, the faulty or negligent implementation and installation of our products by systems integrators may harm our reputation and dilute our brand name. Because we are one step removed from the end-users of our products, it may be more difficult for us to rectify damage to our reputation caused by systems integr ators that have direct contact with end-users. In addition, termination of agreements with systems integrators or revocation of exclusive distribution rights within certain countries can be difficult. If we are unable to maintain our current relationships with systems integrators or develop relationships with new systems integrators, we may not be able to sell our products and our results of operations could be impaired. Unless we continue to expand our direct sales, our future success will depend upon the timing and size of future purchases by systems integrators and the success of the projects and services for which they use our products. Terrorist attacks may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the financial markets on which our ordinary shares trade, the markets in which we operate, our operations and profitability and your investment. These attacks or subsequent armed conflicts resulting from or connected to them may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these terrorist attacks may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and/or expensive and affect the results of our operations. 15 Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our ordinary shares has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our ordinary shares may be significantly affected by factors such as the announcements of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors, technological innovations by us or our competitors or quarterly variations in our results of operations. In addition, any statements or changes in estimates by analysts covering our shares or relating to the smart card industry could result in an immediate effect that may be adverse to the market price of our shares. Trading in shares of companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Market in general and trading in shares of technology companies in particular has been subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations that have been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These factors may depress the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. Securities litigation has also often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. In the future, we may be the target of similar litigation that could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Our share price could be adversely affected by future sales of our ordinary shares. As of March 29, 2010, we had 24,376,137 outstanding ordinary shares, 1,253,431 warrants to purchase additional ordinary shares at a weighted average exercise price of $ 13.9 per share and 2,922,564 options to purchase additional ordinary shares at a weighted average exercise price of $ 2.029 per share. We may, in the future, sell or issue additional ordinary shares. The market price of our ordinary shares could drop as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market or the perception that such sales may occur, including sales or perceived sales by our directors, officers or principal shareholders. These factors could also make it more difficult to raise additional funds through future offerings of our ordinary shares or other securities. If our ordinary shares are ever considered a penny stock, any investment in our ordinary shares will be considered a high-risk investment and become subject to restrictions on marketability. Penny stocks are securities whose price is less than $5, which are speculative and issued by very small companies. If our shares are deemed to be “penny stock” for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the “Exchange Act, brokers effecting transactions in our shares would be subject to additional customer disclosure and record keeping obligations. The additional obligations include disclosure of the risks associated with low price stocks, stock quote information and broker compensation. In addition, brokers making transactions in penny stocks are subject to additional sales practice requirements under the Exchange Act. These additional requirements include making inquiries into the suitability of penny stock inve stments for each customer or obtaining the prior written agreement of the customer for the penny stock purchase. Because of these additional obligations, some brokers will not effect transactions in penny stock. If our shares are deemed a “penny stock” in the future, this designation could have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our ordinary shares and your ability to sell our ordinary shares. We may not be able to meet NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements and our shares may be delisted. We may not be able to meet NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements in the NASDAQ Listing Rules, or the NASDAQ Rules, and our ordinary shares may be delisted. For example, if the bid price of our ordinary shares is less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days or more, our shares may be moved to be traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market, or be delisted. After the bid price of a company goes below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, NASDAQ provides it a grace period before shares are being moved to be traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market or delisted. On March 29, 2010, the closing price of our ordinary share was $2.18. Our shareholders could experience dilution of their ownership interest by reason of our issuing more shares. Under Israeli law, shareholders in public companies do not have preemptive rights. This means that our shareholders do not have the legal right to purchase shares in a new issue before they are offered to third parties. In addition, our board of directors may approve the issuance of shares in many instances without shareholder approval. As a result, our shareholders could experience dilution of their ownership interest by reason of our raising additional funds through the issuance of ordinary shares. In addition, we may continue to acquire companies or businesses in exchange for our shares, resulting in further dilution. 16 We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development of our business. In addition, if we would receive benefits under Israeli law for our “Approved Enterprises,” payment of a cash dividend may create additional tax liabilities for us. We have adopted a share repurchase plan which may adversely affect our financial position. Although we have never declared or paid cash dividend, in November 2008, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of our shares in a total aggregate amount not to exceed $5 million conditioned on court's approval, as required under Israeli law. In May 2009 the court approved repurchase program in a total amount of up to $2 million. In August 2009 our board of directors approved the specific terms of the repurchase program, including the timing and the amount purchased. As of today, no shares were acquired under the repurchase program. According to the repurchase program we are not obligated to acquire any specific amount of shares. However, if we pursue the repurchase plan, the acquisition of our ordinary shares may adversely affect our cash balance and may adversely affect our ability to keep our business development efforts as planned due to decrease in cash in the short-run. Moreover, in the long-run, the repurchase of our own shares may also cause us loss. We adopted a Shareholders Rights Plan that may dilute the shares of an “Acquiring Person”. On January 12, 2009, our board of directors approved the adoption of a Shareholders Rights Plan, according to which each ordinary share of the Company shall give its holder one right. Each such right will become exercisable only after a person or a group becomes an “Acquiring Person”, by obtaining beneficial ownership of, or by commencing a tender or exchange offer for, 15% or more of our ordinary shares (our board of directors may reduce this percentage, but to not less than 10%), unless our board of directors approves such “Acquiring Person” or redeems the rights. Each right, once it becomes exercisable, will generally entitle its holder, other than the “Acquiring Person”, to purchase from the Company either one or three ordinary shares (depending on the Company's registered capital on the date of exercising the rights), at par value. Therefore this Shareholders Rights Plan may dilute the shares of shareholders who are deemed "Acquiring Person" under the Plan. In addition, certain institutions may be discouraged from purchasing or holding our ordinary shares due to the plan’s presumed anti-takeover effect. Furthermore, the existence of the plan may discourage bids to acquire our company at a price that may be attractive to our shareholders. We may fail to maintain effective internal control in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and in particular with Section 404, a portion of which commenced in connection with this annual report on Form 20-F, have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Although our management has determined that we had effective internal control over financial reporting in 2009, we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our future internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Israel Conditions in Israel may harm our ability to produce and sell our products and services and may adversely affect our share price. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and research and development facilities, as well as some of our suppliers, are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Despite the progress towards peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors, the future of these peace efforts remains uncertain. Since October 2000, there has been a substantial deterioration in the relationship between Israel and the Palestinian Authority and a significant increase in violence, primarily in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. During July 2006, an armed conflict between Israel and the Lebanese terror organization, Hezbollah, took place in northern Israel and Lebanon. In December 2008 Israel launched a military operation against armed forces of the Hamas terror organization in the Gaza strip, in order to stop the firing of missiles and rockets from the Gaza strip to Israeli territories. The ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians or any future armed conflicts, political instability or continued violence in the region would likely have a negative effect on our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded Israeli companies such as us. In addition, Israel’s economy has been subject to numerous destabilizing factors, including a period of rampant inflation in the early to mid-1980s, low foreign exchange reserves, fluctuations in world commodity prices, military conflicts and civil unrest. Furthermore, several countrie s still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies, which may limit our ability to make sales in those countries. These restrictions may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or the expansion of our business. 17 Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of key personnel to perform Israeli military service. Some of our executive officers and employees must perform annual military reserve duty in Israel and may be called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees due to military service. Any disruption to our operations would harm our business. The Israeli government programs in which we currently participate, and the Israeli tax benefits we currently receive, require us to meet several conditions, and they may be terminated or reduced in the future. This could increase our costs and/or our taxes. We are entitled to certain tax benefits under Israeli government programs, largely as a result of the “Approved Enterprise” status granted to some of our capital investment programs by the Israeli Ministry of Industry and Trade. Taxable income derived from each program is tax exempt for a period of ten years beginning in the year in which the program first generates taxable income, up to 14 years from the date of approval or 12 years from the date of the beginning of production. Without such benefits our taxable income from such programs would be taxed at the regular corporate tax rate (31% in 2006, 29% in 2007, 27% in 2008, 26% in 2009, 25% in 2010, 24% in 2011, 23% in 2012, 22% in 2013, 21% in 2014, 20% in 2015 and 18% in 2016 and thereafter). To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet cond itions, including making specified investments in property, plant and equipment, 30% of which must be from paid-in capital. We cannot assure you that we will continue to receive these tax benefits at the same rate or at all. From time to time, we submit requests for expansion of our approved enterprise programs. These requests might not be approved. The termination or reduction of these programs and tax benefits could increase our taxes and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions relating to our business We received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the OCS, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. We are obligated to pay royalties with respect to the grants received. In addition, the terms of the OCS grants limit our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel if such products or technologies were developed using know-how developed with or based upon OCS grants. Pursuant to the Israeli Encouragement of Research and Development in the Industry Law, we and any non-Israeli who becomes a holder of five percent or more of our share capital are generally required to notify the OCS and such non Israeli shareholder is required to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scie ntist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. All of our executive officers and most of our directors are not residents of the United States and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons is located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws in an Israeli court against us or any of these persons or to affect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. 18 Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make undesirable an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Israeli Companies Law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers, requires special approvals for transactions involving shareholders holding five percent or more of the company’s capital, and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. 