ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Famous Dave’s makes written and oral statements from time to time, including statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding its business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Sections 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “anticipates,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by our officers or other representatives to analysts, shareholders, investors, news organizations, and others, and discussions with our management and other Company representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 16 Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf speak only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon our management’s current estimates and projections of future results or trends. Although we believe that our plans and objectives reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we may not achieve these plans or objectives. In addition, forward-looking statements may reflect assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as otherwise required by applicable law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement which may be made by us or on our behalf. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement that may be made by us or on our behalf. The state of the economy and the volatility of the financial markets may adversely impact our business and results of operations and may impact our ability to comply with our credit facility’s financial covenants. The restaurant industry is still affected by macro-economic factors, including changes in national, regional, and local economic conditions, employment levels and consumer spending patterns. The recent economic recession, and the slow economic recovery, has kept consumer confidence low, and consequently, has affected the frequency of consumers’ dining out occasions, which has been harmful to our results of operations, and has negatively impacted our financial position. Depending on the duration and severity of the continued economic downturn and the pace of recovery, it may continue to adversely affect our ability to comply with financial covenants under our credit facility on a continuing basis. These financial covenants include, without limitation, maximum target capital expenditures, cash flow ratios, adjusted leverage ratios, and in certain circumstances, a maximum aged royalty receivable. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets and overall economy will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. As of December 30, 2012, we were in compliance with all of our covenants after we obtained an amendment to our credit facility on March 14, 2013. In the event we fail to comply with these or other financial covenants in the future and are unable to obtain similar amendments or waivers, our lender will have the right to demand repayment of all principal amounts outstanding under the credit facility and term loan, which were $13.6 million and $5.4 million, respectively, at December 30, 2012, and to terminate the existing credit facility and term loan. If we were unable to repay outstanding amounts, either using current cash reserves, a replacement facility or another source of capital, our lender would have the right to foreclose on our personal property, which serves as collateral for the credit facility. Replacement financing may be unavailable to us on similar terms or at all, especially if current credit market conditions persist. Termination of our existing credit facility without adequate replacement, either through a similar facility or other sources of capital, would have a material and adverse impact on our ability to continue our business operations. Our future revenue and operating income are dependent on consumer preference and our ability to successfully execute our plan. Our Company’s future revenue and operating income will depend upon various factors, including continued and additional market acceptance of the Famous Dave’s brand, the quality of our restaurant operations, our ability to grow our brand, our ability to successfully expand into new and existing markets, our ability to successfully execute our franchise program, our ability to raise additional financing as needed, discretionary consumer spending, the overall success of the venues where Famous Dave’s restaurants are or will be located, economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income, general economic conditions and the continued popularity of the Famous Dave’s concept. An adverse change in any or all of these conditions would have a negative effect on our operations and the market value of our common stock. 17 It’s our plan to open two new company-owned restaurants in 2013, and we are now anticipating the opening of 10 to 12 new franchise restaurants during the course of the year. We are updating our estimate due to delays in lease executions and permitting as well as complexities associated with international growth. There is no guarantee that any of the company-owned or franchise-operated restaurants will open when planned, or at all, due to many factors that may affect the development and construction of our restaurants, including landlord delays, weather interference, unforeseen engineering problems, environmental problems, construction or zoning problems, local government regulations, modifications in design to the size and scope of the project, and other unanticipated increases in costs, any of which could give rise to delays and cost overruns. There can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our growth plan for our company-owned and franchise-operated restaurants. In addition, we also face all of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the development of an expanding business. Competition may reduce our revenue and operating income. Competition in the restaurant industry is intense. The restaurant industry is affected by changes in consumer preferences, as well as by national, regional and local economic conditions, including real estate, and demographic trends, traffic patterns, the cost and availability of qualified labor, and product availability. Discretionary spending priorities, traffic patterns, tourist travel, weather conditions, and the type, number and location of competing restaurants, among other factors, will also directly affect the performance of our restaurants. Changes in any of these factors in the markets where we currently operate our restaurants could adversely affect the results of our operations. Increased competition by existing or future competitors may reduce our sales. Our restaurants compete with moderately-priced restaurants primarily on the basis of quality of food and service, atmosphere, location and value. In addition to existing barbeque restaurants, we face competition from steakhouses and other restaurants featuring protein-rich foods. We also compete with other restaurants and retail establishments for quality sites. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Regional and national restaurant companies continue to expand their operations into our current and anticipated market areas. We believe our ability to compete effectively depends on our ongoing ability to promote our brand and offer high quality food and hospitality in a distinctive and comfortable environment. If we are unable to respond to, or unable to respond in a timely manner, to the various competitive factors affecting the restaurant industry, our revenue and operating income could be adversely affected. Our failure to execute our franchise program may negatively impact our revenue and operating income. Our growth and success depends in part upon increasing the number of our franchised restaurants, through execution of area development and franchise agreements with new and existing franchisees in new and existing markets. Our ability to successfully franchise additional restaurants will depend on various factors, including our ability to attract, contract with and retain quality franchisees, the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable leases or purchase terms for new locations, permitting and regulatory compliance, the ability to meet construction schedules, the financial and other capabilities of our franchisees, our ability to manage this anticipated expansion, and general economic and business conditions. Many of the foregoing factors are beyond the control of the Company or our franchisees. Our growth and success also depends upon the ability of our franchisees to operate their restaurants successfully to our standards and promote the Famous Dave’s brand. Although we have established criteria to evaluate prospective franchisees, and our franchise agreements include certain operating standards, each franchisee operates his/her restaurant independently. Various laws limit our ability to influence the day-to-day operation of our franchise restaurants. We cannot assure you that our franchisees will be able to successfully operate Famous Dave’s restaurants in a manner consistent with our concepts and standards, which could reduce their sales and correspondingly, our franchise royalties, and could adversely affect our operating income and our ability to leverage the Famous Dave’s brand. In addition, there can be no assurance that our franchisees will have access to financial resources necessary to open the restaurants required by their respective area development agreements, which would negatively impact our growth plans. 18 The restaurant industry is subject to extensive government regulation that could negatively impact our business. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive state and local government regulation by various government agencies, including state and local licensing, zoning, land use, construction and environmental regulations and various regulations relating to the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages, sanitation, disposal of refuse and waste products, public health, safety and fire standards, minimum wage requirements, workers’ compensation and citizenship requirements. Due to the fact that we offer and sell franchises, we are also subject to federal regulation and certain state laws which govern the offer and sale of franchises. Many state franchise laws impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements, including limitations on non-competition provisions and termination or non-renewal of a franchise. We may also be subject in certain states to “dram-shop” statutes, which provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Any change in the current status of such regulations, including an increase in team member benefits costs, any and all insurance rates, or other costs associated with team members, could substantially increase our compliance and labor costs. Because we pay many of our restaurant-level team members rates based on either the federal or the state minimum wage, increases in the minimum wage would lead to increased labor costs. In addition, our operating results would be adversely affected in the event we fail to maintain our food and liquor licenses. Furthermore, restaurant operating costs are affected by increases in unemployment tax rates and similar costs over which we have no control. Recent health care legislation enacted by the Federal Government mandates menu labeling of certain nutritional aspects of restaurant menu items such as caloric, sugar, sodium, and fat content. Altering our recipes in response to such legislation could increase our costs and/or change the flavor profile of our menu offerings which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, minimum employee health care coverage mandated by state or federal legislation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Healthcare reform legislation could have a negative impact on our business. During 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the United States. Certain of the provisions that have increased our healthcare costs include the removal of annual plan limits and the mandate that health plans provide 100% coverage on expanded preventative care. In addition, our healthcare costs could increase significantly as the new legislation and accompanying regulations require us to automatically enroll employees in health coverage, potentially cover more variable hour employees than we do currently or pay penalty amounts in the event that employees do not elect our offered coverage. While much of the cost of the recent healthcare legislation enacted will occur on or after 2014 due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare cost structure could have an impact on our business and operating costs. We are subject to the risks associated with the food services industry, including the risk that incidents of food-borne illnesses or food tampering could damage our reputation and reduce our restaurant sales. Our industry is susceptible to the risk of food-borne illnesses. As with any restaurant operation, however, we cannot guarantee that our internal controls and training will be fully effective in preventing all food-borne illnesses. Furthermore, our reliance on third-party food suppliers and distributors increases the risk that food-borne illness incidents could be caused by third-party food suppliers and distributors outside of our control and/or multiple locations being affected rather than a single restaurant. New illnesses resistant to any precautions may develop in the future, or diseases with long incubation periods could arise that could give rise to claims or allegations on a retroactive basis. Reports in the media or on social media of one or more instances of food-borne illness in one of our company-owned restaurants, one of our franchise-operated restaurants or in one of our competitor’s restaurants could negatively affect our restaurant sales, force the closure of some of our restaurants and conceivably have a national impact if highly publicized. This risk exists even if it were later determined that the illness had been wrongly attributed to the restaurant. Furthermore, other illnesses could adversely affect the supply of some of our food products and significantly increase our costs. A decrease in guest traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Our ability to exploit our brand depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property, and if any third parties make unauthorized use of our intellectual property, our competitive position and business could suffer. We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we have registered various trademarks and make use of various unregistered marks. However, the actions we have taken or may take in the future to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent others from imitating our products and concept or claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. Although we intend to defend against any improper use of our marks to the fullest extent allowable by law, litigation related to such defense, regardless of the merit or resolution, may be costly and time consuming and divert the efforts and attention of our management. Our financial performance is affected by our ability to contract with reliable suppliers at competitive prices. In order to maximize operating efficiencies, we have entered into arrangements with food manufacturers and distributors pursuant to which we obtain approximately 85% of the products used by the Company, including, but not limited to, pork, poultry, beef, and seafood. We believe that our relationships with our food manufacturers and distributors are excellent. We anticipate no interruption in the supply of product delivered by these companies; however, we have arrangements with several secondary suppliers in the case of a supply disruption. Although we may be able to obtain competitive products and prices from alternative suppliers, an interruption in the supply of products delivered by our food suppliers could adversely affect our operations in the short term. Due to the rising market price environment, our food costs may increase without the desire and/or ability to pass that price increase to our customers. While we do contract for utilities in all available states, the costs of these energy-related items will fluctuate due to factors that may not be predictable, such as the economy, current political/international relations and weather conditions. Because we cannot control these types of factors, there is a risk that prices of energy/utility items will increase beyond our current projections and adversely affect our operations. We could be adversely impacted if our information technology and computer systems do not perform properly or if we fail to protect our customers’ credit card information or our employees’ personal data. We rely heavily on information technology to conduct our business, and any material failure, interruption of service, or compromised data security could adversely affect our operations. While we take it very seriously and expend significant resources to ensure that our information technology operates securely and effectively, any security breaches could result in disruptions to operations or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Additionally, if our guests’ credit card or other personal information or our team members’ personal data are compromised, our operations could be adversely affected, our reputation could be harmed, and we could be subjected to litigation or the imposition of penalties. Pursuant to its authority to designate and issue shares of our stock as it deems appropriate, our board of directors may assign rights and privileges to currently undesignated shares which could adversely affect the rights of existing shareholders. Our authorized capital consists of 100,000,000 shares of capital stock. Our Board of Directors, without any action by the shareholders, may designate and issue shares in such classes or series (including classes or series of preferred stock) as it deems appropriate and establish the rights, preferences and privileges of such shares, including dividends, liquidation and voting rights. As of March 11, 2013, we had 7,522,899 shares of common stock outstanding. The rights of holders of preferred stock and other classes of common stock that may be issued could be superior to the rights granted to the current holders of our common stock. Our Board’s ability to designate and issue such undesignated shares could impede or deter an unsolicited tender offer or takeover proposal. Further, the issuance of additional shares having preferential rights could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of holders of common stock. 20 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 