ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors described below are not all inclusive. All of these risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating our results, operations, financial position, strategies and trends. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or risk factor. Additionally, there may be other risks and uncertainties that we have not highlighted herein that may become material factors affecting our operations and business success. We derived more than 86% of our retained royalties in fiscal 2006 from four Technologies. We derived approximately $3,924,000, or 86%, of 2006 retained royalties from four Technologies: $3,196,000, or 70%, from the homocysteine assay, $483,000, or 11%, from Ethyol, $184,000, or 4%, from gallium arsenide patents, and $60,000, or 1%, from sexual dysfunction patents. In fiscal 2005, we derived approximately 96% of our retained royalties from the same four Technologies. Our U.S. patent that covers the homocysteine assay expires in July 2007, and we will not receive significant revenues from this Technology after that date. Our retained royalties from Ethyol are limited to a maximum of $500,000 per calendar year, and since calendar 2002 we have received the maximum. We expect Ethyol retained royalties to continue at their 2006 level for several years (this patent expires in December 2010). In September 2006, the last of the gallium arsenide patents expired and we will not receive significant royalty revenue after that date. For the impact of expiring licenses, see below. Such a concentration of revenues makes our operations vulnerable to changes in and/or patent expiration of any one of them, especially the homocysteine assay, and such changes could have a significant adverse impact on our financial position. Page 10 Table of Contents Certain of our licensed patents have recently expired or will expire in the near future and we may not be able to replace their royalty revenues. In 2006, we derived retained royalties from licenses on twenty-two (22) patented Technologies. We expect royalties from eleven (11) of those patented Technologies to expire in the next five years. Those patented Technologies represented approximately 92% of our retained royalties in 2006. Fiscal 2006 retained royalties of approximately $3,199,500, or 70%, $280,200, or 6%, and $484,300, or 11%, respectively, were from patents expiring in fiscal 2007, 2009 and 2011. The loss of these royalties, especially the homocysteine assay, will materially, adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to replace them with revenues from other licenses or other sources. Since it often takes two or more years for a Technology to produce significant revenues, we must continuously seek new sources of future revenues. In three of the last five fiscal years, we have incurred significant net losses and negative cash flows, and our ability to finance future losses is limited, and may involve significant dilution to existing stockholders. The table below summarizes our consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the five years ended July 31, 2006: 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Net income (loss) $ (2,377,224 ) $ 5,701,787 $ 2,954,529 $ (1,935,301 ) $ (4,016,428 ) Net cash flows from: Operating activities (3,527,318 ) 5,006,936 2,328,684 (1,604,910 ) (1,666,360 ) Investing activities (141,644 ) 803,220 499,663 221,910 (464,222 ) Financing activities 2,298,726 4,159,711 (22,962 ) -- -- Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (1,370,236 ) $ 9,969,867 $ 2,805,385 $ (1,383,000 ) $ (2,130,582 ) The recurring revenue stream we have currently is insufficient for us to be profitable with our present cost structure. In 2004 and 2005, we were profitable because of large, upfront license fees received related to our homocysteine Technology, the magnitude of which was unusually high and did not recur in 2006, and infrequently occurring revenues, including legal awards and dividends. Without these revenues, we would have incurred a loss in both years, and for all of the five years ended July 31, 2006. To return to and sustain profitability, we must increase recurring revenues by successfully licensing Technologies with current and long-term revenue streams, and we must continually add new such licenses. In addition, we must control our costs, including litigation related costs. Without such actions, our current cash position will deteriorate. Our future royalty revenues, obtaining rights to new Technologies, granting licenses, enforcing intellectual property rights, and profits or losses are subject to many factors outside our control, or that we currently cannot anticipate, including technological changes and developments, economic cycles, and the ability of our licensees to commercialize our Technologies successfully. Consequently, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to be profitable. Although we cannot be assured that we will be successful in these efforts, we believe that our new business plan initiated in 2006, and our capital resources will sustain us at least through fiscal 2007. We have no outstanding debt or available credit facility, and we believe that it would be very difficult to obtain any form of debt financing due to the current composition of our balance sheet, and Page 11 Table of Contents unpredictable nature of our annual cash flows. Thus, our financing options currently are limited, and we must rely on cash on hand and cash flows, if any, from operations, though this situation could change in the future. We did obtain equity financing in 2004 which we completed in 2006. We continue to review financing options for our business, which may in the future include more equity financing. If we do enter into an equity financing arrangement in the future, and if we do sell shares of our common stock pursuant to such financing to raise cash to operate the business, then existing holders of our common stock may suffer significant dilution to their equity position. We depend on our relationships with inventors to gain access to new Technologies and inventions. If we fail to maintain existing relationships or to develop new relationships, we may have fewer Technologies and inventions available to generate revenues. In addition, technology can change rapidly and industry standards are continually evolving. This often makes products obsolete, or results in short product lifecycles. Our profitability also depends on our licensees’ ability to adapt to such changes. We do not invent new Technologies or products ourselves. We depend on relationships with universities, corporations, governmental agencies, research institutions, inventors, and others to provide us with technology-based opportunities that we can develop into profitable royalty-bearing licenses. Our failure to maintain these relationships or to develop new relationships could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to forge new relationships or to maintain our current relationships, we may be unable to identify new Technology-based opportunities and royalty-bearing licenses. We also are dependent on our Clients’ abilities to develop new Technologies, introduce new products, and adapt to changes in technology and economic needs. Further, we cannot be certain that our current or any new relationships will provide the volume or quality of available new Technologies necessary to sustain our business. In some cases, universities and other sources of new Technologies may compete against us as they seek to develop and commercialize these Technologies themselves, or through entities that they develop, finance and/or control. In other cases, universities receive financing for basic research from companies in exchange for the exclusive right to commercialize any resulting inventions. These and other strategies may reduce the number of Technology sources (potential Clients) to whom we can market our services. If we are unable to secure new sources of Technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We receive most of our revenues from customers over whom we have no control. We rely on royalties received from our customers for revenues. The royalties we receive from our customers depend on their efforts and expenditures and we have no control over their efforts or expenditures. Additionally, our customers’ development of new products involves great risk since many new Technologies do not become commercially profitable products despite extensive development efforts. Our license agreements do not require customers to advise us of problems they may encounter in attempting to develop commercial products and they usually treat such information as confidential. We expect that our customers will encounter problems frequently. Our customers’ failure to resolve such problems may result in a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Strong competition within our industry may reduce our Client base. We compete with universities, law firms, venture capital firms and other Technology commercialization firms for Technology licensing opportunities. Many organizations offer some aspect of Technology transfer services, and some are well established and have more financial and human resources than we do. This market is highly fragmented and participants frequently focus on a specific technology area. Page 12 Table of Contents A former President and Chief Executive Officer and CTT have been named in a civil suit filed by the SEC. Until this matter is resolved, our stock price may be adversely impacted, and our operations and expenses may be negatively affected. On August 11, 2004, the SEC filed a civil suit naming Competitive Technologies, Inc., our former President and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) from 2001, and six individual brokers in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut, alleging that from at least July 1998 to June 2001, CTT was involved in a scheme to manipulate the price of our stock. The case relates to our 1998 stock repurchase program under which we repurchased shares of our common stock from time to time during the period from October 28, 1998 to March 22, 2001. CTT was named as a defendant in the suit due to the alleged conduct of our former CEO, whose conduct in connection with the stock repurchase program was imputed to CTT as a matter of law. Relating to CTT, the SEC in the suit seeks a permanent injunction prohibiting us from further violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and a civil penalty pursuant to Section 21(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (this section provides for maximum penalties of $550,000 for a corporate entity and $110,000 per individual). On September 24, 2004, we responded to this civil suit, and filed a motion to dismiss the suit. On October 15, 2004, the SEC filed a motion opposing our motion to dismiss the suit, and on July 21, 2005, our motion to dismiss the suit was denied. On April 10, 2006, we filed a motion for summary judgment to dismiss the case. On June 15, 2006, the SEC filed a motion to oppose our motion for summary judgment. Further action in this case is pending. If our motion for summary judgement is not successful, we expect that the case will go to trial sometime in 2007. Defense costs incurred since August 2004 relating to this suit are being covered by our directors and officers insurance carrier, however, we cannot be certain that all future costs, including potential fines and penalties, will be covered by our insurance carrier. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Until this matter is resolved, our stock price may be adversely impacted, and our operations and expenses may be negatively affected. Our By-Laws provide that we will indemnify our directors, officers, employees and agents in certain circumstances. We carry directors and officers liability insurance (subject to deductibles) to reduce these financial obligations. Our directors, officers, employees and agents may claim indemnification in certain circumstances. We are currently exposed to potential indemnification claims in connection with the civil suit filed by the SEC (see Item 3. Legal Proceedings). We seek to limit and reduce our potential financial obligations for indemnification by carrying directors and officers liability insurance (subject to deductibles). We are currently involved in lawsuits that historically have involved significant legal expenses. In addition, our most recent former President and CEO filed a complaint against us seeking certain damages, and we have filed a complaint against him for monetary and punitive damages. If the courts or regulatory agencies in these suits or actions decide against us, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, legal fees and other costs we incurred in 2006 relating to these cases were significant, and the amount of costs we incur in the future may be significant. For a complete description of all of the lawsuits we are involved in, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Page 13 Table of Contents Two of our officers have demanded a significant amount of additional compensation from us. On September 29, 2006, we received a demand letter from an attorney representing two of our officers (neither of whom is our Chief Executive, Operating or Financial Officer), demanding approximately $300,000 in total for commission payments alleged to be due them for 2006 under our prior annual incentive compensation plan, which was terminated in November 2005. These individuals received commission payments in 2005 related to new homocysteine licenses granted in 2005, and are claiming that the company is obligated, and they were promised that the payments would continue for a period of two (2) years thereafter. It also is claimed in the letter that these individuals anticipate that they would be entitled to at least an aggregate additional $350,000 in commission payments in 2007. We are investigating this matter, but expect to vigorously defend any litigation that may arise from it. Pending completion of the investigation, we have put these individuals on administrative leave with pay. We cannot estimate the amount of costs we may incur relating to this matter, but the costs may be significant, although a portion of the costs may be covered by insurance. Our revenue growth depends on our ability to understand the Technology requirements of our customers in the context of their markets. If we fail to understand their Technology needs or markets, we limit our ability to meet those needs and to generate revenues. We believe that by focusing on the Technology needs of our customers, we are better positioned to generate revenues by providing Technology solutions to them. In this way, the market demands of our customers drive our revenues. The better we understand their markets and requirements, the better we are able to identify and obtain effective Technology solutions for our customers. We rely on our professional staff and contract business development consultants to understand our customers’ technical, commercial, and market requirements and constraints, and to identify and obtain effective Technology solutions for them. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends on the knowledge, efforts and abilities of a small number of key personnel. Dr. D. J. Freed is our President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael E. Kiley is our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and Michael D. Davidson is our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We rely on our professional staff and contract business development consultants to identify intellectual property opportunities and technology solutions, and to negotiate and close license agreements. Competition for personnel with the necessary breadth and depth of experience is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain highly qualified professionals and consultants, especially with our small number of staff, our revenues, prospects, financial condition and future activities could be materially adversely affected. Our customers, and therefore we, depend on receiving government approvals to exploit certain licensed products commercially. Commercial exploitation of some licensed patents may require the approval of governmental regulatory agencies, especially in the life sciences area, and there is no assurance that those agencies will grant such approvals. In the United States, the principal governmental agency involved is the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). The FDA’s approval process is rigorous, time consuming and costly. Unless and until a licensee obtains approval for a product requiring such approval, the licensee may not sell the product in the U.S., and therefore we will not receive royalty income based on U.S. sales of the product. Page 14 Table of Contents If our Clients and we are unable to protect the intellectual property underlying our licenses, or to enforce our patents adequately, we may be unable to exploit such licensed patents or Technologies successfully. Our success in earning revenues from licenses is subject to the risk that issued patents may be declared invalid, that patents may not issue on patent applications, or that competitors may circumvent or infringe our licensed patents and thereby render our licensed patents not commercially viable. In addition, when all patents underlying a license expire, our royalties from that license cease, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace those royalties with royalty revenues from new or other licenses. Patent litigation has increased; it can be expensive and may delay or prevent our customers’ products from entering the market. Our Clients and/or we may pursue patent infringement litigation or interference proceedings against sellers of products that we believe infringe our patent rights. Holders of conflicting patents or sellers of competing products also may challenge our patents in patent infringement litigation or interference proceedings. For a description of proceedings in which we are currently involved, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We cannot assure you that our Clients and/or we will be successful in any such litigation or proceeding, and the results and costs of such litigation or proceeding may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Developing new products, creating effective commercialization strategies for Technologies, and enhancing those products and strategies are subject to inherent risks. These risks include unanticipated delays, unrecoverable expenses, technical problems or difficulties, and the possibility that development funds will be insufficient. The occurrence of any one or more of these risks could make us abandon or substantially change our Technology commercialization strategy. Our success depends on, among other factors, our Clients developing new or improved Technologies, our customers’ products meeting targeted cost and performance objectives for large-scale production, and our customers’ ability to adapt Technologies to satisfy industry standards, satisfy consumer expectations and needs, and bring their products to market before the market is saturated. They may encounter unanticipated technical or other problems that result in increased costs or substantial delays in introducing and marketing new products. Current and future products may not be reliable or durable under actual operating conditions or otherwise commercially viable and competitive. New products may not satisfy price or other performance objectives when introduced in the marketplace. Any of these events would adversely affect our realization of royalties from such new products. We have not paid dividends on our common stock. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since 1981, and, our Board of Directors currently does not have plans to declare or pay cash dividends in the future. However, the decision to pay dividends is solely at the discretion of our Board of Directors based upon factors that they deem relevant, and may change at any time. As a publicly held company, we have significantly higher administrative costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and new listing requirements subsequently adopted by the American Stock Exchange in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have required changes in corporate governance practices, internal control policies and audit committee practices of public companies. These new rules, regulations, and requirements have increased our legal, audit, financial, compliance and administrative costs, and have made certain other activities more time consuming and costly. The additional costs are expected to continue. In addition, these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for Page 15 Table of Contents us to obtain directors and officers liability insurance in the future, and could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members for our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 