Risk Factors," in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2007, and other filings with the SEC, and are subject to change at any time. Our actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement. ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW: TECHNOLOGY COMMERCIALIZATION SERVICES Competitive Technologies, Inc. ("CTT"), was incorporated in Delaware in 1971, succeeding an Illinois corporation incorporated in 1968. CTT and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "registrant," "we," "our," or "us"), provide technology transfer, selling and licensing services focused on the technology needs of our customers, matching those requirements with commercially viable technology solutions, bridging the gap between market demand and raw innovation. We do this in two ways. First, we continually develop relationships with the technology and research arms of universities, independent research institutions, companies, individual inventors, patent attorneys and patent or other intellectual property holders, who we then formally represent, becoming our clients. We obtain from our clients the right to serve as their agent, or a license to their invention, patent or intellectual property rights, their technology. Our goal is to make a profit for our clients and us by finding customers, or end users, who have a use for the particular technology, and granting them a license or a sublicense to commercialize, sell, or further develop the technology. Second, as we also have contacts and relationships with those who have a need or use for particular technologies, usually other businesses, who may or may not be our current customers, we match their needs with one of our technologies, or find a technology to fit their needs. Since we focus on available technologies, client side, and wanted or needed technologies, customer side, we believe that we provide a valuable service in matching market needs to technology solutions. Using our services provides benefits to the provider and user of the technology. The technology provider client can focus on research and invention, rather than on selling and marketing, as we effectively become their marketing department. The technology user customer can focus on selling and marketing, rather than on research and development. We maintain and enforce our clients' and our technology patent rights, and monitor and address any infringement. Our goal is to maximize the value of technologies for the benefit of our clients, customers and shareholders. When we acquire rights to commercialize a technology, we may acquire exclusive or non-exclusive rights, worldwide or limited to a specific geographic area. When we license or sublicense rights to our customers, we may grant exclusive or non-exclusive rights, worldwide or geographically limited, and/or we may limit rights to a defined field of use. Technologies can be early stage, mid stage, or late stage. We identify and commercialize, or find companies that commercialize for us, innovative technologies in life and physical sciences, electronics, and nanotechnologies. Life sciences include medical testing, diagnostics, pharmaceuticals, biotechnologies, medical devices and other medical or biological applications. Physical sciences include chemical, display, and environmental applications. Electronics include communications, semiconductors, Internet related, e-commerce and consumer electronics applications. Nanotechnologies deal with the manipulation of microscopic particles into useful arrangements, and smart or novel materials; a nano particle is one thousand times smaller than the Page 3 width of a human hair. We have technologies in each of these areas with a concentration of revenues from life sciences. We estimate that over the years we have licensed nearly 500 technologies to and from corporations, and can count as our clients a number of major universities and inventors. We are a vital part of the technology commercialization community, and have paid over $100 million to universities in shared technology revenues. TECHNOLOGY ACQUISITION AND PORTFOLIO We continue to work to expand our relationships with universities and inventors, increasing the number of clients and technologies we represent, and establishing us as the premier technology commercialization company. One of our goals is to have a pipeline of technologies to generate a long-term recurring revenue stream. In addition to contacts with universities, independent research institutions and inventors, inventors or intellectual property holders contact us directly for evaluation and assistance. We evaluate potential technologies based on the strength of the intellectual property, our ability to protect it, its life stage, further development time needed, compatibility with existing technology in our portfolio, marketability, market size, and potential profitability. A majority of technologies initially reviewed are rejected. A process to initiate representation is started for all technologies accepted. When we accept a technology we believe that we have a chance to market it successfully. We may reject a technology if more time and expense than we originally planned is needed to protect and market the technology. Certain technologies, once accepted, may be dormant for a period of time until a new customer or application is identified. As explained in TECHNOLOGY PROTECTION AND LITIGATION, some technologies may become involved in patent infringement and/or litigation. Generally, early stage technologies have limited current revenue potential but may have high long-term revenue potential. Mid and late stage technologies may produce more current revenues but depending on the time left on the related patent, may have limited long-term revenue potential. We review and evaluate numerous technologies since most are initially rejected. Of those we accept into our portfolio, many will be commercially unsuccessful, produce little or no revenues, and eventually abandoned. We expect others will produce steady revenues and profitability for a period that could last several years, and a small number will be very successful, producing significant revenues throughout the life of the patent. When we accept a technology, we try to obtain rights to improvements and/or refinements that extend the patentable life of the technology and potential revenues. Because of these characteristics, revenues, and profitability will fluctuate from year to year, in some cases significantly, as well as bottom line net income as a percentage of and return on revenues. If revenues are not generated as anticipated, we will incur a loss. We review the revenue potential of technologies in our portfolio continuously, adding and removing technologies as necessary. When we review and evaluate a technology, we usually first sign a non-disclosure confidentiality agreement with the prospective client. This allows us access to non-public information and other details about the technology that we agree to keep confidential. When we commercialize the technology we require similar non-disclosure confidentiality agreements from prospective customers. We include bilateral non-disclosure and confidentiality provisions as part of nearly all licenses and sublicenses granted to protect the technology's value, and our customers' business dealings and plans. As a result of these obligations, as well as federal regulations for disclosure of non-public information, we may not be able to disclose, and do not disclose except under limited conditions, details about licenses and sublicenses granted for technologies we are evaluating. Certain limited information that we believe is necessary for an understanding of our financial results may be disclosed. Page 4 MARKETING TECHNOLOGIES We commercialize technologies through many methods, from contacts in research and development, legal firms, marketing and executive levels at major corporations, to seminars and trade shows. We perform market research to determine the most likely users of technologies, and contact current or prospective customers to determine if they have an interest in or a use for a new technology. TECHNOLOGY PROTECTION AND LITIGATION An important part of our business is protecting our technologies from patent infringement, domestically and internationally. We sometimes assist in preparation of initial patent applications, and often are responsible for prosecuting and maintaining patents. Patent enforcement is a part of our business due to unintentional and willful patent infringement. In the case of unintentional infringement, the infringer usually does not know that a patent exists. These cases often can be resolved by the granting of a license. In cases of willful infringement, certain infringers will continue to infringe absent legal action. In addition, companies will attempt to find work-arounds to avoid paying us, and our clients, proper royalties for use of our technologies. At times these work-arounds may be successful. We defend our technologies on behalf of our clients, CTT and licensees, and pursue patent infringement cases through litigation, if necessary. Such actions and cases, even if settled out of court, may take several years to complete, and the expenses may be borne by our clients, by us, or shared. Any proceeds earned by the action usually are shared in the same proportion as the costs. As a result, we may incur significant expenses in some years and be reimbursed for them through proceeds of awards or settlements several years later. Patent law provides for the potential of treble damages in the event of a willful infringement, but such awards are solely at the discretion of the court. REVENUE GENERATION We earn revenues principally from licensing technologies to generate royalty fees based on usage or sales of the technologies. Generally, agreements we enter into with clients and customers are for the duration of the technology life, which usually is determined by applicable patent law. When our customers pay us royalties, we share them with our clients. When we receive periodic reports of sales of licensed products and royalties earned from our customers, or we receive payment, whichever occurs first, we record revenues for our portion of the royalty, and record our obligation to our clients for their portion. Revenues we record are solely our share of gross revenues, net of our clients' shares, which usually are fixed percentages. For early stage technologies that may not be ready for commercial development without further research, we may receive annual minimum royalty payments and/or milestone payments based on research progress or subsequent sublicense or joint venture proceeds. In certain sublicense or license arrangements, we may receive an upfront fee upon execution of the license. Our fees generally are non-refundable, and, except for annual minimum royalties, usually are not creditable against future royalties. In certain cases, we may waive the first year or few years' royalty fees in consideration for the upfront fee. In some cases, we apply the upfront fee or initial royalty fees to reimburse patent prosecution and/or maintenance costs incurred by either party. In these cases, we record payments as a reduction of expense, and not as revenue. If the reimbursement belongs solely to our client, we record no revenue or expense. As a result, a new technology may not generate significant revenues in its early years. We set licensing terms in written agreements with clients and customers. Generally, we enter into single element arrangements with customers, under which we have no significant obligations after executing the agreements, other than patent prosecution and maintenance. In limited instances, we may enter into multiple element arrangements under which we may have continuing service obligations. We defer all revenue from multiple element arrangements until delivery of all required elements. We determine delivery of elements based on verifiable objective evidence. We also may have milestone billing arrangements, whereby we recognize non-refundable, upfront fees ratably over the entire arrangement and milestone payments as the specified milestone is achieved. We evaluate such billing Page 5 arrangements on a case-by-case basis, and record revenues as appropriate. We do not have multiple element or milestone billing arrangements at this time, but we have had such arrangements in the past and could have in the future. We have a concentration of retained royalties derived from one technology. We are actively marketing our other technologies, and seeking new technologies to mitigate this concentration of revenues and provide a steadier future revenue stream. Technologies that produced revenues equal to or exceeding 15% of our total retained royalties revenue, or at least $250,000 in 2007, 2006 or 2005 were: 2007 2006 2005 ---------- ---------- ---------- Homocysteine assay $2,037,000 $3,196,000 $8,932,000 Ethyol(TM) $ 29,000 $ 483,000 $ 500,000 Gallium arsenide $ 34,000 $ 184,000 $ 860,000 Sexual dysfunction $ 60,000 $ 60,000 $ 843,000 As a percentage of total retained royalties for the same periods, these technologies represented: 2007 2006 2005 ---------- ---------- ---------- Homocysteine assay 75% 70% 77% Ethyol 1% 11% 4% Gallium arsenide 1% 4% 8% Sexual dysfunction 2% 1% 7% The homocysteine assay is a diagnostic blood test used to determine homocysteine levels and a corresponding deficiency of folate or vitamin B12. Studies suggest that high levels of homocysteine may be a primary risk factor for cardiovascular, vascular and Alzheimer's diseases, and rheumatoid arthritis. Our U.S. patent for this homocysteine assay expired in July 2007. We expect to receive revenue from this technology for sales made prior to that date. In addition, we are in litigation with Carolina Liquid Chemistries Corporation to recover funds that we believe are due us for homocysteine assays kits manufactured, sold or offered for sale in infringement of our patent. For further information, see ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. For further information see ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Ethyol is an agent that reduces certain side effects of chemotherapy, and is licensed by Southern Research Institute ("SRI"), exclusively to MedImmune, Inc. (formerly U.S. BioScience, Inc.). Pursuant to an agreement between CTT and SRI, SRI paid us a maximum of $500,000 per calendar year from Ethyol license income it received. During fiscal 2006 the agreement between SRI and MedImmune reached its tenth anniversary. As a result, royalties will be earned in any of the five years following the anniversary to the extent that Ethyol sales in each of the next five years exceed the revenue generated in the anniversary year. We expect to earn minimal royalties on the technology going forward. This patent expires in December 2010. Gallium arsenide is used to improve semiconductor operating characteristics. U.S. patents were issued from March 1983 to May 1989. Patents expired from May 2001 through September 2006. After September 2006, we will not receive significant royalties for this technology. The 2007 and 2006 revenue related to our sexual dysfunction technology was due to receipt of an annual minimum license fee. According to our agreement with our licensee, Palatin Technologies, Inc. ("Palatin"), if the agreement were to stay in place, the minimum fee is due until such time as the technology is commercialized, whereupon royalties will be due if higher than the minimum. The increase in revenues in 2005 was due to a settlement with Palatin related to certain fees received by Palatin in 2005. Pursuant to our license, we are entitled to a portion of fees Palatin receives, which we believe have not been paid. On September 11, 2007, we presented Palatin with a Notice of Termination of the PT-14 Page 6 technology license agreement stating that Palatin committed a material breach of the agreement originally signed between the two companies on March 31, 1998. For further information, see ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. This technology is a therapeutic drug to treat male and female sexual dysfunction, which is undergoing testing prior to approval. Final government approval, assuming testing is successful, is still several years away. We also earn revenues from royalty legal awards. Such awards may be significant, generally are non-recurring and the result of successful patent enforcement actions, and may include punitive damages, attorneys' fees, court costs and interest. Out-of-court settlements may occur prior to or during trials. Revenues from out of court settlements usually are included in retained royalties. Other technologies in our life sciences portfolio, many of which are subject to testing, clinical trials and approvals, include: - Pain management therapy that treats oncological, neuropathic and morphine-resistant pain through a biophysical rather than a biochemical approach; - Nanotechnology bone cement biomaterial with a broad range of potential applications, including dental, spinal and other bone related applications. Exclusively licensed to Soteira Inc. for human spinal applications; - Lupus Diagnostic and Monitoring technology, a cost-effective scalable testing platform used to diagnose and monitor the autoimmune disease, Lupus; - Cholesterol Trapping/Regeneration technology, that traps and removes cholesterol in dairy products, including milk and cheese, without sacrificing taste or nutritional value; - Sunless tanning agent, a skin-pigment enhancer that may prevent skin cancer from unprotected exposure to the sun licensed to Clinuvel Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. (Australia); - Green tea based cleanser formulation used in nutraceutical skin products. Our applied science/electronics portfolio includes: - Age related memory improvement device that uses synchronized sound and light rhythms to influence brain activity for stress reduction, improved concentration and memory improvement; - Radio Alert Warning System, a low powered dual-mode transmitter capable of short-range interruption of commercial radio broadcasting received by vehicles within a radius of up to 700 feet; - Video and audio signal processing technology licensed in the Motion Picture Electronics Group visual patent portfolio pool (MPEG 4 Visual), and used in streaming video products for personal computers and wireless devices, including mobile phones; - Encryption technology that operates at high speeds with low memory requirements to secure applications used on the internet, telecommunications, smart cards and e-commerce; - AccuSpeech(TM), an interactive software platform designed to help individuals master English when it is not their native language. Page 7 Our physical sciences portfolio includes: - A group of 50 patents related to the full value chain of light emitting diodes (LEDs) - chips, phosphors, packaging and encapsulants; - Primary optical device that significantly improves the brightness and efficiency of high brightness light emitting diodes (HB LEDs); - Clean, renewable fuel technologies, including patented alternative fuel formulations and a method to convert municipal waste to fuel grade ethanol and certain marketable chemicals; RETAINED ROYALTIES FROM FOREIGN SOURCES Retained royalties received from foreign licensees totaled approximately $425,000, $477,000, and $757,000, in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Of the foreign sourced royalties received, $184,000, $334,000 and $402,000, in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were from Japanese licenses. INVESTMENTS From time to time we provide other forms of assistance and funding to certain development-stage companies to further develop specific technologies. EMPLOYEES As of October 18, 2007, we employed 15 people (full-time equivalents). We also have independent consultants under contract to provide business development services. In addition to the diverse technical, intellectual property, legal, financial, marketing and business expertise of our professional team, from time to time we rely on advice from outside technical and professional specialists to fulfill our clients' and customers' unique technology needs. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CTT's Corporate Governance Principles, Corporate Code of Conduct, the Committee Charters for the Audit and Nominating Committees of the Board of Directors, the unofficial restated Certificate of Incorporation and the By-Laws are all available on our website at www.competitivetech.net/investors/governance.html. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We make available without charge copies of our Annual Report, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those, and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on our website, www.competitivetech.net, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed. Our website's content is not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or any other report we file with the SEC. You may request a paper copy of materials we file with the SEC by calling us at (203) 368-6044. You may read and copy materials we file with the SEC on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, or at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling (800) 732-0330. FISCAL YEAR Our fiscal year ends July 31, and our first, second, third and fourth quarters end October 31, January 31, April 30 and July 31, respectively. Page 8 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors described below are not all inclusive. All risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating our business, results of operations, and financial position. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements or risk factors. There may be other risks and uncertainties not highlighted herein that may become material factors affecting our financial condition and business operations. WE DERIVED MORE THAN 75% OF OUR RETAINED ROYALTIES IN FISCAL 2007 FROM ONE TECHNOLOGY. We derived approximately $2,037,000, or 75%, of 2007 retained royalties from our homocysteine assay technology. In fiscal 2006, we derived approximately 70% of our retained royalties from this same technology. Our U.S. patent for the homocysteine assay expired in July 2007, and although we will not receive significant revenues from this technology after that date, we expect to receive revenue for sales made prior to that date. In addition, we are in litigation with Carolina Liquid Chemistries Corporation to recover funds that we believe are due us for homocysteine assays kits manufactured, sold or offered for sale in infringement of our patent. For further information, see ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. A concentration of revenues makes our operations vulnerable to patent changes or expiration, especially the homocysteine assay, and could have a significant adverse impact on our financial position. CERTAIN OF OUR LICENSED PATENTS HAVE RECENTLY EXPIRED OR WILL EXPIRE IN THE NEAR FUTURE AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REPLACE THEIR ROYALTY REVENUES. In 2007, we earned retained royalties from licenses for 17 patented technologies. Royalties from 10 of those patented technologies have or will expire between 2007 and 2012. Those patented technologies represented approximately 88% of our retained royalties in 2007. Retained royalties of approximately $2,072,533, or 76%, $25,992, or 1%, $267,527, or 10% and $29,007, or 1%, were from patents expiring in fiscal 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2011, respectively. The loss of these royalties, especially from the homocysteine assay, will materially, adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to replace them with revenues from other licenses or other sources. Since it often takes two or more years for a technology to produce significant revenues, we must continuously seek new sources of future revenues. IN THREE OF THE LAST FIVE FISCAL YEARS, WE INCURRED SIGNIFICANT NET LOSSES AND NEGATIVE CASH FLOWS, AND OUR ABILITY TO FINANCE FUTURE LOSSES IS LIMITED, AND MAY SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS. The table below summarizes our consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the five years ended July 31, 2007: 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 ------------ ------------ ---------- ----------- ------------ Net income (loss) $(8,893,946) $(2,377,224) $5,701,787 $2,954,529 $(1,935,301) Net cash flows from: Operating activities (5,437,443) (3,527,318) 5,006,936 2,328,684 (1,604,910) Investing activities (978,217) (141,644) 803,220 499,663 221,910 Financing activities 78,425 2,298,726 4,159,711 (22,962 -- Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $(6,337,235) $(1,370,236) $9,969,867 $2,805,385 $(1,383,000) Page 9 Our current recurring revenue stream is insufficient for us to be profitable with our present cost structure. In 2005 and 2004, we were in part profitable because of unusually large, upfront license fees received related to our homocysteine technology that did not recur in 2007 or 2006. Without these revenues, we would have incurred a loss in both years, and for each of the five years ended July 31, 2007. To return to and sustain profitability, we must increase recurring revenues by successfully licensing technologies with current and long-term revenue streams, and continue to build our portfolio of innovative technologies. Over the last six months we significantly reduced overhead with reductions in staff across all functional departments of the company, reduced extraneous litigations, and obtained new technologies to build revenue. We will continue to monitor our cost structure, and expect to operate within our generated revenue and cash balances. Our future royalty revenues, obtaining rights to new technologies, granting licenses, enforcing intellectual property rights, and profits or losses are subject to many factors outside our control, or that we cannot anticipate, including technological changes and developments, economic cycles, and the ability of our licensees to commercialize our technologies successfully. Consequently, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to be profitable. Although we cannot be certain that we will be successful in these efforts, we believe that our capital resources will sustain us at least through fiscal 2008. We have no outstanding debt or available credit facility, and believe it would be very difficult to obtain debt financing due to the current composition of our balance sheet, and unpredictable nature of our annual cash flows. Our financing options are limited, and we must rely on cash on hand and cash flows from operations, though this situation could change in the future. We did obtain equity financing in 2004 that we completed in 2006. We continue to review financing options for our business, which may in the future include more equity financing. If we enter into an equity financing arrangement in the future, and we sell shares of our common stock pursuant to such financing to raise cash to operate the business, existing holders of our common stock may suffer significant dilution to their equity position. WE DEPEND ON RELATIONSHIPS WITH INVENTORS TO GAIN ACCESS TO NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND INVENTIONS. IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN EXISTING RELATIONSHIPS OR TO DEVELOP NEW RELATIONSHIPS, WE MAY HAVE FEWER TECHNOLOGIES AND INVENTIONS AVAILABLE TO GENERATE REVENUES. TECHNOLOGY CAN CHANGE RAPIDLY AND INDUSTRY STANDARDS CONTINUALLY EVOLVE, OFTEN MAKING PRODUCTS OBSOLETE, OR RESULTING IN SHORT PRODUCT LIFECYCLES. OUR PROFITABILITY DEPENDS ON OUR LICENSEES' ABILITY TO ADAPT TO SUCH CHANGES. We do not invent new technologies or products. We depend on relationships with universities, corporations, government agencies, research institutions, inventors, and others to provide technology-based opportunities that we can develop into profitable royalty-bearing licenses. Failure to maintain these relationships or to develop new relationships could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to forge new relationships or to maintain current relationships, we may be unable to identify new technology-based opportunities and enter into royalty-bearing licenses. We also are dependent on our clients' abilities to develop new technologies, introduce new products, and adapt to changes in technology and economic needs. We cannot be certain that current or new relationships will provide the volume or quality of available new technologies necessary to sustain our business. In some cases, universities and other sources of new technologies may compete against us as they seek to develop and commercialize these technologies themselves, or through entities that they develop, finance and/or control. In other cases, universities receive financing for basic research from companies in exchange for the exclusive right to commercialize any resulting inventions. These and other strategies may reduce the number of technology sources, potential clients, to whom we can market our services. If we are unable to secure new sources of technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Page 10 WE RECEIVE MOST OF OUR REVENUES FROM CUSTOMERS OVER WHOM WE HAVE NO CONTROL. We rely on royalties received from our customers for revenues. The royalties we receive from customers depend on their efforts and expenditures over which we have no control. Additionally, customers' development of new products involves great risk since many new technologies do not become commercially profitable products despite extensive development efforts. Our license agreements do not require customers to advise us of problems they may encounter in attempting to develop commercial products, and they usually treat such information as confidential. We expect that our customers will encounter problems frequently. Our customers' failure to resolve such problems may result in a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. STRONG COMPETITION WITHIN OUR INDUSTRY MAY REDUCE OUR CLIENT BASE. We compete with universities, law firms, venture capital firms and other technology commercialization firms for technology licensing opportunities. Many organizations offer some aspect of technology transfer services, and some are well established and have more financial and human resources than we do. This market is highly fragmented and participants frequently focus on a specific technology area. FRANK R. MCPIKE, JR., A FORMER PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF CTT, CTT AND OTHER INDIVIDUALS HAVE BEEN NAMED IN A CIVIL SUIT FILED BY THE SEC. On August 11, 2004 the SEC filed a civil suit in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut, naming Mr. McPike and six individual brokers, alleging that from at least July 1998 to June 2001, these persons were involved in a scheme to manipulate the price of our stock. The case relates to our 1998 stock repurchase program under which we repurchased shares of our common stock from time to time during the period from October 28, 1998 to March 22, 2001. CTT was named as a defendant in the suit due to the alleged conduct of Mr. McPike, whose conduct in connection with the stock repurchase program was imputed to CTT as a matter of law. Relating to CTT, the SEC in the suit sought a permanent injunction prohibiting us from further violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and a civil penalty pursuant to Section 21(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; this section provides for maximum penalties of $550,000 for a corporate entity and $110,000 per individual. On September 24, 2004, we responded to this civil suit, and filed a motion to dismiss the suit. On October 15, 2004, the SEC filed a motion opposing our motion to dismiss the suit, and on July 21, 2005, our motion to dismiss the suit was denied. On April 10, 2006, we filed a motion for summary judgment to dismiss the case. On June 15, 2006, the SEC filed a motion to oppose our motion for summary judgment. Defense costs incurred in 2005 and thereafter have been covered by our insurance carrier, however, we cannot be certain that our insurance carrier will cover all future costs. On October 10, 2007 we agreed to settlement of this case. Without admitting or denying the allegation of the complaint, we have consented to be permanently restrained and enjoined from violating Sections 9(a) and 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and rule 10b-5 thereunder. No fines or penalties were imposed by the SEC in connection with this settlement. The settlement agreement has been approved by the SEC. Its anticipated acceptance by the Connecticut Federal District Court will close the SEC's investigation and proceedings against the company. No members of CTT's current Board or management held positions with the company during the period of 1998-2001. For further information, see ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. Page 11 OUR BY-LAWS PROVIDE THAT WE INDEMNIFY OUR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES. WE CARRY DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE, SUBJECT TO DEDUCTIBLES, TO REDUCE THESE FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS. Our directors, officers, employees and agents may claim indemnification in certain circumstances. We are currently exposed to potential indemnification claims by a former executive in connection with a civil suit filed by the SEC. For further information, see ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. WE ARE INVOLVED IN LAWSUITS THAT HISTORICALLY HAVE INVOLVED SIGNIFICANT LEGAL EXPENSES. IF THE COURTS OR REGULATORY AGENCIES IN THESE SUITS OR ACTIONS DECIDE AGAINST US, THIS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. LEGAL FEES AND OTHER COSTS WE INCURRED IN 2007 RELATING TO THESE CASES WERE SIGNIFICANT, AND THE AMOUNT OF COSTS WE INCUR IN THE FUTURE MAY BE SIGNIFICANT. For a complete description of all of the lawsuits we are involved in, see ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. OUR REVENUE GROWTH DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO UNDERSTAND THE TECHNOLOGY REQUIREMENTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS IN THE CONTEXT OF THEIR MARKETS. IF WE FAIL TO UNDERSTAND THEIR TECHNOLOGY NEEDS OR MARKETS, WE LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO MEET THOSE NEEDS AND TO GENERATE REVENUES. We believe that by focusing on the technology needs of our customers, we are better positioned to generate revenues by providing technology solutions to them. The market demands of our customers drive our revenues. The better we understand their markets and requirements, the better we are able to identify and obtain effective technology solutions for our customers. We rely on our professional staff and contract business development consultants to understand our customers' technical, commercial, and market requirements and constraints, and to identify and obtain effective technology solutions for them. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL. Our success depends on the knowledge, efforts and abilities of a small number of key personnel. John B. Nano is our Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer and Aris D. Despo is our Executive Vice President, Business Development. We rely on our professional staff and contract business development consultants to identify intellectual property opportunities and technology solutions, and to negotiate and close license agreements. Competition for personnel with the necessary range and depth of experience is intense. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain highly qualified professionals and consultants, especially with our small number of staff, our revenues, prospects, financial condition and future activities could be materially adversely affected. OUR CUSTOMERS, AND WE, DEPEND ON GOVERNMENT APPROVALS TO COMMERCIALLY DEVELOP CERTAIN LICENSED PRODUCTS. Commercial development of some licensed patents may require the approval of governmental regulatory agencies, especially in the life sciences area, and there is no assurance that those agencies will grant such approvals. In the United States, the principal governmental agency involved is the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"). The FDA's approval process is rigorous, time consuming and costly. Unless and until a licensee obtains approval for a product requiring such approval, the licensee may not sell the product in the U.S., and therefore we will not receive royalty income based on U.S. sales of the product. Page 12 IF OUR CLIENTS AND WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY UNDERLYING OUR LICENSES, OR TO ENFORCE OUR PATENTS ADEQUATELY, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO DEVELOP SUCH LICENSED PATENTS OR TECHNOLOGIES SUCCESSFULLY. Our success in earning revenues from licenses is subject to the risk that issued patents may be declared invalid, that a patent may not be issued on a patent application, or that competitors may circumvent or infringe our licensed patents and thereby render our licensed patents not commercially viable. In addition, when all patents underlying a license expire, our royalties from that license cease, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace those royalties with royalty revenues from new or other licenses. PATENT LITIGATION HAS INCREASED; IT CAN BE EXPENSIVE AND MAY DELAY OR PREVENT OUR CUSTOMERS' PRODUCTS FROM ENTERING THE MARKET. Our clients and/or we may pursue patent infringement litigation or interference proceedings against sellers of products that we believe infringe our patent rights. Holders of conflicting patents or sellers of competing products also may challenge our patents in patent infringement litigation or interference proceedings. For a description of proceedings in which we are currently involved, see ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. We cannot be certain that our clients and/or we will be successful in any such litigation or proceeding, and the results and costs may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. DEVELOPING NEW PRODUCTS, CREATING EFFECTIVE COMMERCIALIZATION STRATEGIES FOR TECHNOLOGIES, AND ENHANCING THOSE PRODUCTS AND STRATEGIES ARE SUBJECT TO INHERENT RISKS. RISKS INCLUDE UNANTICIPATED DELAYS, UNRECOVERABLE EXPENSES, TECHNICAL PROBLEMS OR DIFFICULTIES, AND THE POSSIBILITY THAT DEVELOPMENT FUNDS WILL BE INSUFFICIENT. THE OCCURRENCE OF ANY ONE OR MORE OF THESE RISKS COULD CAUSE US TO ABANDON OR SUBSTANTIALLY CHANGE OUR TECHNOLOGY COMMERCIALIZATION STRATEGY. Our success depends on, among other factors, our clients developing new or improved technologies, our customers' products meeting targeted cost and performance objectives for large-scale production, and our customers' ability to adapt technologies to satisfy industry standards, and consumer expectations and needs, and bringing their products to market before market saturation. They may encounter unanticipated problems that result in increased costs or substantial delays in introducing and marketing new products. Products may not be reliable or durable under actual operating conditions or commercially viable and competitive. New products may not meet price or other performance objectives when introduced in the marketplace. Any of these events would adversely affect our realization of royalties from new products. WE HAVE NOT PAID DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since 1981, and, our Board of Directors does not currently have plans to declare or pay cash dividends in the future. The decision to pay dividends is solely at the discretion of our Board of Directors based upon factors that they deem relevant, and may change at any time. AS A PUBLICLY HELD COMPANY, WE HAVE SIGNIFICANTLY HIGHER ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC and new listing requirements adopted by the American Stock Exchange in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has required changes in corporate governance practices, internal control policies and audit committee practices of public companies. These new rules, regulations, and requirements have increased our legal, audit, financial, compliance and administrative costs, and have made certain other activities more time consuming and costly. The additional costs are expected to continue. These new rules and regulations Page 13 may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain directors and officers liability insurance in the future, and could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members for our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. IN DEVELOPING NEW PRODUCTS WE ARE AFFECTED BY PATENT LAWS AND REGULATIONS. Patent laws and regulations are constantly being reviewed for possible revision. We cannot be certain how we will be affected by revisions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS, Not applicable. 