Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors, among others, could in the future affect our actual results of operations and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us in this Annual Report or elsewhere. Before you decide to buy, hold, or sell our Ordinary Shares, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs. In that event, the market price for our Ordinary Shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and we may continue to incur full-year losses in 2015 and in subsequent years. We have incurred losses in each year since we commenced operations in 1990. We reported net losses attributable to shareholders of $17.4 million in 2012, $3 million in 2013, and $9.9 million in 2014. We may continue to incur full year losses in 2015 and afterwards, as we invest in the expansion of our global marketing network, reduce our product prices in return for future transaction fees based on the volume of transactions in systems that contain our products, invest in fixed assets that may generate revenues more slowly than expected and enhance our research and development capabilities. 14 We are under relatively new management. In December 2012, eight new directors were elected by the Company’s General Meeting of Shareholders to serve on our Board of Directors, or the Board, following resignation of the majority of the then incumbent directors. Since then, we have appointed a new Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and replaced our chairman of our Board twice. Besides the foregoing, and during 2014, several of our board members resigned, we appointed an additional Board member and terminated the employment of our former Chief Sales and Marketing Officer. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer recently gave notice of his resignation. Together, this may affect our business in the short and mid-term. We are assessing possible alternatives to maximize value for our shareholders. This process may not result in a viable alternative, or such alternative might not be implemented successfully. Our Board has been identifying and assessing possible alternative strategies to maximize value for our shareholders and is constantly looking to implement new strategies for growing our businesses and building shareholder value. However, there is no certainty that we will be able to identify the strategy that will work best for us and for our shareholders, or that the strategy we choose will be actually implemented successfully, since such strategy implementation generally depends on a number of factors, many of which outside of our control. If we fail to identify the appropriate strategy or to implement successfully the strategy we choose, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may desire to exit certain product lines or businesses, or to restructure our operations, but may not be successful in doing so. Our Board has been identifying and assessing possible alternative strategies to maximize value for our shareholders. Such process may result in a decision to divest certain product lines and businesses or restructure our current corporate structure or current operations, including, without limitation, through the contribution of assets to joint ventures or sale of some assets to third parties. However, our ability to successfully exit product lines and businesses, or to close or consolidate operations, or to sell successfully some of our assets, depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For example, if we are seeking a buyer for a particular business line, none may be available, or we may not be successful in negotiating satisfactory terms with prospective buyers or a buyer may not meet its obligations under the applicable purchase agreement. If we are unable to exit a product line or business in a properly or timely manner, or to restructure our current corporate structure or our operations in a manner we deem to be advantageous, or to enforce that a buyer meets its contractual obligations, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if a divestment is successful, among others, we may face indemnity and other liability claims by the acquirer or other parties. We depend on a small number of large customers, and the loss of one or more of them would lower our revenues. Our customer base is concentrated among a limited number of large customers. Our revenues may continue to depend on a limited number of major customers. The customers we consider to be our major customers and the percentage of our revenue represented by each major customer vary from period to period. In 2012, 2013 and for 2014, our largest customer in North America provided 6%, 19% and 22% respectively, of our total revenues for such periods. In addition, another customer, related to mass transit in Poland, respectively accounted for 8%, 15% and 14% of our total revenues for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. If we were to lose any one of our major customers, or if any of our customers were to have difficulty meeting their financial obligations to us for any reason, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. If the market for contactless microprocessor-based smart cards and/or NFC does not grow, sales of our products may not grow and may even decline. The success of some of our products depends on commercial enterprises, governmental authorities and other potential card issuers adopting contactless microprocessor-based smart card and NFC technologies. Other card technologies, such as magnetic strips or bar codes, are widely used and could be viewed by potential customers as more cost effective alternatives to our products and/or the market for contactless microprocessor-based smart cards and/or NFC products may not grow or actually meet our current forecasts. Additionally, potential customers in developed countries, such as the United States and others, may already have installed systems that are based on technologies different from ours and therefore may be less willing to incur the capital expenditures required to install or upgrade to a contactless microprocessor-based smart card system. As a result, we cannot assure that there will be significant market opportunities for our contactless microprocessor-based smart cards and/or NFC products. New technologies for payments different than ours, such as HCE or others, might also be adopted by the markets and could override the need for our contactless and NFC payment solutions. 15 If we fail to develop new products or adapt our existing products for use in new markets, our revenue growth may be impeded and we may incur significant losses. To date, we have sold products incorporating our technology within a limited number of markets. Although we are devoting significant resources to developing new products and adapting our existing products for use in new markets, such as cashless payment solutions, parking solutions, mass transit ticketing solutions and petroleum solutions, if we fail to develop new products or adapt our existing products for existing or new markets, we may not recoup the expenses incurred in our efforts to do so, our revenue growth may be impeded and we may incur significant losses. We have acquired several companies or groups of companies and we intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future. The failure to successfully integrate acquired companies and businesses or to acquire new companies and businesses may harm our financial performance and growth. During the last few years we acquired several companies or businesses in Israel and around the world. In certain cases, we paid for these acquisitions through the issuance of our Ordinary Shares and in certain cases, warrants to purchase Ordinary Shares and cash consideration. These and future acquisitions could result in: · difficulties in integrating our operations, technologies, products and services with those of the acquired companies and businesses; · difficulty in integrating operations that are spread across significant geographic distances; · diversion of our capital and our management’s attention away from other ongoing business issues; · potential loss of key employees and customers of companies and businesses we acquire; · increased liabilities as a result of liabilities of the companies and businesses we acquire; and · dilution of shareholdings in the event we acquire companies and businesses in exchange for our Ordinary Shares. We may not successfully integrate all technologies, manufacturing facilities or distribution channels that we have or may acquire and we cannot assure that any of our recent acquisitions will be successful. In addition, if we do not acquire new companies and businesses in the future, our business may not grow as expected. If any of our recent or future acquisitions are not successful, our financial performance and business may be adversely affected. Our revenue growth may be impaired if we are unable to maintain our current, and establish new, strategic relationships. The markets for our products are usually highly specialized and sometimes require us to enter into strategic relationships in order to facilitate or accelerate our penetration into existing or new markets. We consider a relationship to be strategic when we integrate our technology into some of the product offerings of a business partner or manufacturer or systems integrator that has a significant position in a specified market and cooperate in marketing the resulting product. The termination of any of our strategic relationships or our failure to develop additional relationships in the future may limit our ability to expand the markets in which our products are deployed or to sell particular products. The terms of certain of our agreements may restrict our ability to take actions that we believe to be desirable. Certain agreements that we have entered into with our suppliers, sales agents and joint venture partners, provide exclusivity for different time periods, ranging from several months to several years, or with respect to specific regions. For example, in certain markets, we sell our products through sales agents which, in certain cases, have exclusive sales rights in that market or certain territories if specified sales quotas are met. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition if these partners do not perform in a satisfactory manner. We face intense competition. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business prospects will be impaired. We face intense competition from developers of contact and contactless microprocessor-based technologies, NFC payment solutions and products, developers of contactless payments products that use other types of technologies that are not microprocessor-based, NFC and non-smart card technologies. In some of our markets we are facing competition from new emerging technologies such as Bluetooth Low Energy and HCE, among others. We compete on the basis of a range of competitive factors including price, compatibility with the products of other manufacturers, and the ability to support new industry standards and introduce new reliable technologies. Many of our competitors have greater market recognition, larger customer bases, and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we possess. As a result, they may be able to introduce new products, respond to customer requirements and adapt to evolving industry standards more quickly than we can. 16 From time to time, we or one or more of our present or future competitors may announce new or enhanced products or technologies that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of our existing products. The announcement of new or enhanced products may cause customers to delay or alter their purchasing decisions in anticipation of such products, and new products developed by our competitors may render our products obsolete or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. If we cannot compete successfully with our existing and future competitors, we could experience lower sales, price reductions, loss of revenues, reduced gross margins and reduced market share. Our products may have long development cycles and we may expend significant resources in relation to a specific project without realizing any revenues. The development cycle for our products varies from project to project. Typically, the projects in which we are involved are complex and require that we customize our products to our customers’ needs and specifications in return for payment of a fixed amount. We then conduct evaluation, testing, implementation and acceptance procedures of the customized products with the customer. Only after successful completion of these procedures will customers place orders for our products in commercial quantities. In addition, our sales contracts sometimes do not include minimum purchase requirements. We therefore cannot always assure that future contracts will result in commercial sales. Our average development cycle is typically between six and 18 months from initial contact with a potential customer until we deliver commercial quantities to the customer and recognize significant revenues. As a result, we may expend financial, management and other resources to develop customer relationships before we recognize revenues, if any. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance may create volatility in the market price of our shares and may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied substantially in the past and may continue do so in the future. These fluctuations may be driven by various factors which are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and may not meet the expectations of analysts and investors. These factors include, among others, the following: · Our payroll expenses are relatively fixed and we would not expect to reduce our workforce due to a reduction in revenues in any particular quarter. · The tendency of some of our clients, due to budgetary reasons, to place orders for products toward the last quarter of their financial year. As a result of these factors, our revenues and operating results in any quarter may not be indicative of our future performance, and it may be difficult to evaluate our prospects. Delays or discontinuance of the supply of components may hamper our ability to produce our products on a timely basis and cause short-term adverse effects. Some of the components we use in our products, including microprocessors and cards, are supplied by third party suppliers and manufacturers. Some of these suppliers are single source manufacturers. Termination of manufacturing of a certain product, provision of services or support (commonly referred to as “end of life”), allocations due to high demand, or delays or shortages could interrupt and delay the supply of our products to our customers, and may result in cancellation of orders for our products. However, we do not always have long-term supply contracts under which our suppliers are committed to supply us with components at fixed or defined prices. Suppliers sometimes may increase component prices significantly without advance warning or could discontinue the manufacturing or supply of components used in our products. In addition, third party suppliers may face other challenges in fulfilling their contractual obligations with us which are beyond our control. For instance, our 2011 and 2012 financial results were adversely impacted by the flooding in Thailand which had direct impact on a plant of one of our then principal contractors for inlays, and this caused disruptions to our supply chain and specifically affected our ability to deliver products to certain customers. Although we make efforts to identify and retain from time to time second source manufacturers, we may not be able always to develop alternative sources for product components, if and as may be required in the future. Even if we are able to identify alternative sources of supply, we may need to modify our products to render them compatible with other components. This may cause delays in product shipments, increase manufacturing costs and increase product prices. 17 Some of our suppliers are located in different countries, such as in Europe and Asia, and therefore we may experience logistical difficulties in our supply chain, including long lead times for receipt of products or components and shipping delays. In addition, our subcontractors may, on occasion, feel the impact of potential economic or political instability in their regions, which could affect their ability to supply us with components for our products in a timely manner. If we fail to hire, train and retain qualified research and development personnel, our ability to enhance our existing products, develop new products and compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to hire and train qualified research and development personnel. Individuals who have expertise in research and development in our industry are scarce. Competition for such personnel in the electronics industry is intense, particularly in Israel. Consequently, hiring, training and retaining such personnel is time consuming and expensive. In addition, it may be difficult to attract qualified personnel to Rosh Pina, which is located in the northern part of Israel. If we fail to hire, train and retain employees with skills in research and development, we may not be able to enhance our existing products or develop new products. If we are unable to protect or assert our intellectual property rights, our business and results of operations may be harmed. Our success and ability to compete depend considerably on using our IP and proprietary rights to protect our technology and products. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, design, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other contractual relationships with our employees, customers, affiliates, distributors, suppliers and others. While substantially all of our employees are subject to non-compete agreements, these agreements may be difficult to enforce as a result of Israeli law limiting the scope of employee non-competition undertakings. We further note that the Israeli Supreme Court noted (in an obiter dictum) in 2012, without making any decisive ruling, that an employee who contributes to an invention during his employment could be allowed to seek compensation for it from their employer, even if the employee’s contract of employment specifically states otherwise and the employee has transferred all intellectual property rights to the employer. The Israeli Supreme Court considered the possibility that a contract that revokes the employee’s right for royalties and compensation may not necessarily foreclose the right of the employee to claim a right for royalties. As a result, even if the Company believes that none of its employees has any rights in any of the Company’s intellectual property, or to receive royalties, it is unclear if, and to what extent, our employees may be able to claim compensation with respect to our future revenue. As a result, we may receive less revenue from future products if such claims are successful, or incur additional royalty expenses, which in turn could impact our future profitability. Our patent portfolio includes registered patents and pending patents applications worldwide encompassing, among others, product applications, system and product architecture and product concepts in the field of NFC, contactless payments, petroleum and parking solutions. Our patents are registered or pending in the United States, Europe, Asia, Australia, Israel, South Africa and other countries. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued with respect to any of our pending or future patent applications or that the scope of our existing patents, or any future patents that are issued to us, will provide us with adequate protection for our technology and products. Others may challenge our patents or patent applications as well as our registered trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We do not know whether any of them will be upheld as valid or will be enforceable against alleged infringers. Thus we do not know whether they will enable us to prevent or hinder the development of competing products or technologies. Moreover, patents provide legal protection only in the countries where they are registered and the extent of the protection granted by patents varies from country to country. The measures we have taken to protect our technology and products may not be sufficient to prevent their misappropriation by third parties or their independent development by others of similar technologies or products. If our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our technology, competitors may be able to offer products similar to our products more easily. Our competitors may also develop competing technology by designing around our patents and thereafter manufacturing and selling products that compete directly with ours, which would harm our business, financial position and results of operations. In order to protect our technology and products and enforce our patents and other proprietary rights, we may need to initiate, prosecute or defend litigation and other proceedings before courts and patent and trademark offices in multiple countries. For instance, in March 2012 we filed a patent infringement lawsuit alleging that T-Mobile USA, Inc. sells NFC enabled phones that infringe on a patent we own. These legal and administrative proceedings could be expensive and could occupy significant management time and resources. 18 Our strategy to maximize the value of our IP through licensing, enforcement and other strategies may not be successful. We expect to generate revenues and related cash flows from the licensing and enforcement of patents that we currently own and may obtain in the future. However, we can give no assurances that we will be able to identify opportunities to exploit such patents or that such opportunities, even if identified, will generate revenues. Our ability to maximize the value of our IP may be adversely effected if we are unable to identify licensees for our IP, or due to delays in completing patent enforcement through litigation, which is often a long and expensive process. Security breaches and system failures could expose us to liability, harm our business or result in the loss of customers. We retain sensitive data, including intellectual property, books of record and personally identifiable information, on our networks. It is critical to our business strategy that our infrastructure and other infrastructure we use to host our solutions remain secure, do not suffer system failures and are perceived by customers and partners to be secure and reliable. Despite our security measures, our infrastructure and third party infrastructure we use to host our solutions may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or other disruptive problems. Our policy is to cap our liability to damages at the cost of the project. However, we cannot ensure that the actual liabilities imposed on us in case of data security issues or data loss issues would indeed be subject to such cap. Any security breach or system failure may compromise information stored on our networks. Such an occurrence could negatively affect our reputation as a trusted provider of solutions and hosting such solutions by adversely affecting the market’s perception of the security or reliability of our products or services. If we fail to adhere to regulations and security standards imposed by credit card networks, or if our products are not certified or otherwise fail to comply with such regulations and security standards (such as payment card industry standards, etc.) or if our customers fail to take proper protective measures and hold OTI liable for the consequences, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our products are designed to collect, store, and route certain personal identifiable information from our clients and/or from end-users, as well as processing such clients’ and/or end-users payments using payment information. In addition, we may store such information on our servers. We are required by some of our customers to meet industry standards imposed by payment systems standards setting organizations such as EMV, credit card associations such as Visa, MasterCard, Interac, Discover and other credit card associations and standard setting organizations such as the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council, or PCI SSC, and other local organizations. Furthermore, some of our offerings are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, or PCI DSS, which is a set of multifaceted security standards that is designed to protect credit card and personal information as mandated by payment card industry entities. Even though we attempt to protect our company through our contracts with our customers, clients and other third-party service providers, and in certain cases assess their security controls, we have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. We implemented an off-site backup policy that is expected to help in case of system crash caused by hackers, intruders, attackers or accidents. However, this policy cannot guarantee complete security, as not all attack possibilities are known. We also advise our customers to maintain insurance policies covering cyber-attacks on their systems, including system restore and derived liabilities in case of stolen data, and we further advise them to monitor their backup policies carefully, ensuring off-site backups. New standards are continually being adopted or proposed as a result of worldwide anti-fraud initiatives, encryption of cardholder or personal information, the increasing need for system compatibility and technology developments such as wireless, optical fiber infrastructure, telecommunication, VPN, VPN infrastructure, satellite based communication and other wire line IP communication. We cannot ensure that we will be able to design our solutions to comply with future standards or regulations on a timely basis, if at all. Compliance with these standards could increase the cost of developing or producing our products, while non-compliance may harm our reputation or result in customer and client claims. New products designed to meet any new standards need to be introduced to the market and ordinarily need to be certified by the credit card associations and our customers before being purchased. The certification process is costly and time consuming and increases the amount of time and resources it takes to sell our products, as well as the product development cycle time and cost. Selling products that are non-compliant may result in fines against us or our customers, which we may be liable to pay. After selling and/or installation of a system or a product, the customer is responsible for any operational aspect of such system or product ensuring them from unexpected crashes. We advise our clients to take backup and insurance measures for such cases. In addition, even if our products are designed to be compliant, compliance with certain security standards is determined on the basis of the network environment in which our customers and service providers install our products. Therefore, such compliance depends upon additional factors such as proper installation of the components of the environment (including our systems, compliance of software and system components provided by other vendors), implementation of compliant security processes and business practices and adherence to such processes and practices. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected if we do not comply with new or existing industry standards and regulations, or obtain or retain necessary regulatory approval or certifications in a timely fashion, or if compliance results in increasing the cost of our products. 19 Our products may infringe on the IP rights of others. It is not always possible to know with certainty whether or not the manufacture and sale of our products or the licenses we are granted from third parties does or will infringe patents or other IP rights owned by third parties. For example, patent applications may be pending at any time which, if granted, cover products that we developed or are developing. In certain jurisdictions, the subject matter of a patent is not published until the patent is issued. Third parties may, from time to time, claim that our products infringe on their patent or other IP rights. In addition, if third parties claim that our customers are violating their IP rights, our customers may seek indemnification from us (which could be costly), or may terminate their relationships with us. Our products depend also on operating systems licensed to us and we may also be subject to claims by third parties that our use of these operating systems infringes on their IP rights. IP rights litigation is complex and costly, and we cannot be sure of the outcome of any litigation. Even if we prevail, the cost of litigation could harm our results of operations. In addition, litigation is time consuming and could divert our management’s attention and resources away from our business. If we do not prevail in such litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we might be required to discontinue the use of certain processes, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products and solutions, and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses on unfavorable terms. In addition, some licenses are non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. We are susceptible to changes in international markets and difficulties with international operations could harm our business. We have derived revenues from different geographical areas. Our ability to maintain our position in existing markets and/or to penetrate new, regional and local markets is dependent, in part, on the stability of regional and local economies. Our regional sales may continue to fluctuate widely and may be adversely impacted by future political or economic instability in these or other foreign countries or regions. In addition, there are inherent risks in these international operations which include, among others: · · changes in regulatory requirements and communications standards; changes in external political policies, such as embargos based on manufacturing origin; · political and economic instability; · required licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; · difficulties in enforcing IP rights across, or having to litigate disputes in, various jurisdictions; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex laws and treaties in various jurisdictions; and · business interruptions resulting from geopolitical actions, including war and terrorism, or natural disasters including earthquakes, typhoons, floods and fires. If we are unable to manage the risks associated with our focus on international sales, our business may be harmed. We report in U.S. dollars while a portion of our revenues and expenses is incurred in other currencies. Therefore currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We generate a significant portion of our revenues in U.S. dollars but we incur some of our expenses in other currencies. Our principal non-U.S. dollar expenses are for Israeli employees’ salaries, which are in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS, and the expenses of our international subsidiaries. Our subsidiary in Poland, ASEC, incurs expenses in Polish Zloty and our subsidiary in South Africa, OTI PetroSmart, incurs expenses in South African Rand. To the extent that we and our subsidiaries based in Israel, United States, Europe and South Africa conduct our business in different currencies, our revenues and expenses and, as a result, our assets and liabilities, are not necessarily accounted for in the same currency. We are therefore exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. More specifically, we face the risk that our accounts receivable denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies will be devalued if such currencies weaken quickly and significantly against the U.S. dollar. Similarly, we face the risk that our accounts payable and debt obligations denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies will increase if such currencies strengthen quickly and significantly against the U.S. dollar. These fluctuations may negatively affect our results of operations. Our operations could also be adversely affected if we are unable to limit our exposure to currency fluctuations in the future. 20 To mitigate the risk of financial exposure to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the NIS or other currencies, we may enter into currency hedging transactions. However, these measures may not adequately protect us from material adverse effects resulting from currency fluctuations. In addition, if we wish to maintain the U.S. dollar-denominated value of sales made in other currencies, any devaluation of the other currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would require us to increase our other currency denominated selling prices. That could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders. Our international sales and operations are subject to complex laws relating to foreign corrupt practices and bribery, among many other subjects. A violation of, or change in, these laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations in countries outside the U.S. are subject, among others, to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 as amended from time to time, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies or foreign companies which their shares are traded in a U.S. stock exchange, or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign public official as defined in the FCPA for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity, or obtain any unfair advantage. We have internal control policies and procedures and have implemented training and compliance programs for our employees and agents with respect to the FCPA. However, we cannot assure that our policies, procedures and programs will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts that may be committed by our employees or agents. Allegations of violations of applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, may result in internal, independent, or government investigations. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. In addition, investigations by governmental authorities as well as legal, social, economic, and political issues in countries where we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners or agents outside of the U.S. may fail to comply with other applicable laws. The costs of complying with these and similar laws may be significant and may require significant management time and focus. Any violation of these or similar laws, intentional or unintentional, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are using third parties’ goods and services from time to time. Although we make efforts to ensure the service quality we cannot control the actions of such third parties, and therefore we may be subject to claims and risks. We depend on third party service providers, suppliers and licensors to supply some of the services, hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of our services. We obtain these materials from a limited number of vendors, some of which do not have a long operating history or which may not be able to continue to supply the equipment and services we desire. Some of our hardware, software and operational support vendors, and service providers represent our sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of IP rights, a position of some exclusivity. If demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment or services we need fully or in a timely manner, at our specifications and at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might delay our ability to serve our customers. These events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract customers, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business, financial results and financial condition. A limited number of vendors of key technologies can lead to less product innovation and higher costs. For these reasons, we generally endeavor to establish alternative vendors for materials we consider critical, but may not be able to always establish these relationships or be able to obtain required materials on favorable terms. We may have to adapt our products in order to integrate them into our customers’ systems if new government regulations or industry standards are adopted or current regulations or standards are changed. Some of our products and/or future products under development are or may be subject to government or international regulation in the countries in which they are used. For example, card readers used in the U.S. and in Europe require certification of compliance with regulations of the FCC and the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, respectively, regarding emission limits of radio frequency devices, some of our systems are required to meet the safety regulation standards. In addition, governmental or international certification for the systems into which our products are integrated may be required. The ISO approved industry standards regulating the transfer of data between cards and readers that we generally meet. If there is a change in government regulations or industry standards, we may have to make significant modifications to our products and, as a result, could incur significant costs and may be unable to deploy our products in a timely manner. In addition, prior to purchasing our products, some customers may require us to receive or obtain a third party certification, or occasionally certify our products by ourselves, that our products can be integrated successfully into their systems or comply with applicable regulations. In some cases, in order for our products, or for the system into which they are integrated, to be certified, we may have to make significant product modifications. Furthermore, receipt of third party certifications may not occur in a timely manner or at all. Failure to receive third party certifications could render us unable to deploy our products in a timely manner or at all. 21 Our products may contain defects that are only discovered after the products have been deployed or used. This could harm our reputation, result in loss of customers and revenues or subject us to product liability claims. Our products are highly technical and deployed as part of large and complex projects. As a result of the nature of our products, they can only be fully tested when fully deployed. For example, the testing of our parking payment product required the distribution of sample parking payment cards to drivers, installation of electronic kiosks at which a card holder can increase the balance on his or her card, linking of kiosks to financial and parking databases, collection of data through handheld terminals, processing of data that is collected by the system, compilation of reports and clearing of parking transactions. Any defects in our products could result in: · harm to our reputation; · loss of, or delay in, revenues; · loss of customers and market share; · failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products; and · unexpected expenses to remedy errors. In addition, we could be exposed to potential product liability claims. While we currently maintain product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this insurance will be sufficient to cover any successful product liability claim. Any product liability claim could result in changes to our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of a large deductible or co-insurance requirements. Any product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of our cash reserves. Furthermore, the assertion of product liability claims, regardless of the merits underlying the claim, could result in substantial costs to us, divert management’s attention away from our operations and damage our reputation. We have certain operations in countries that may be adversely affected by political or economic instability. We are a global company with worldwide operations. In addition to being headquartered in Israel, we derive certain portion of our sales and future growth from regions such as Latin America, Eastern Europe and Africa, which may be more susceptible to political or economic instability. Certain portions of our operations are conducted outside the markets in which our products are sold, and accordingly we often import a substantial number of products into such markets. We may, therefore, be denied access to our customers or suppliers or denied the ability to ship products from any of our sites as a result of a closing of the borders of the countries in which we sell our products, or in which our operations are located, due to economic, legislative or political conditions. Delays in the implementation stage in some of the projects we are involved with may prevent us from generating sales revenues as expected in the applicable year. Delays in projects might occur as a result of factors that are beyond our control, including, without limitation, customer readiness or shortage in purchased components needed for project implementation as well as our readiness to implement the projects. If such delays occur in the future, it might affect our revenues, profitability or our share price. The general economic outlook may adversely affect our business. Our operations and performance depend on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of business and public spending, which deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. This may adversely affect the budgeting and purchasing behavior of our customers and our potential customers, including shifting customers purchasing patterns to lower-cost options, which could adversely affect our product sales. In addition, continuing uncertainties in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers, suppliers, distributors and resellers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and to fulfill their contractual obligations with us. As a result, we could encounter, among other adverse effects, a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products, and an increase in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable being required. 22 We derive a portion of our revenues from sales to systems integrators that are not the end-users of our products. We are dependent, to a certain extent, on the ability of these integrators to maintain their existing business and secure new business. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, 20%, 16% and 12%, respectively of our revenues were derived from sales to systems integrators that incorporate our products into systems which they supply and install for use in a specific project. While we view such system integrators as our final customers, since such orders depend on the ability of systems integrators to successfully market, sell, install and provide technical support for systems in which our products are integrated or to sell our products on a stand-alone basis, our revenues may decline if the efforts of these systems integrators fail. Further, the faulty or negligent implementation and installation of our products by systems integrators may harm our reputation and dilute our brand name. We are one step removed from the end-users of our products, and therefore it may be more difficult for us to rectify damage to our reputation caused by systems integrators that have direct contact with end-users. In addition, termination of agreements with systems integrators or revocation of exclusive distribution rights within certain countries might be difficult. If we are unable to maintain our current relationships with systems integrators or develop relationships with new systems integrators, we may not be able to sell our products and our results of operations could be impaired. Unless we continue to expand our direct sales, our future success will depend upon the timing and size of future purchases by systems integrators and the success of the projects and services for which they use our products. We are exposed to credit risk with some of our customers and to credit exposures and currency controls, which could result in material losses. A significant portion of our net revenues are on an open credit basis that we provide to our customers. While we assess collectability for revenue recognition purposes on a regular basis, credit risks may be higher and collections may be more difficult to enforce, and future losses for being unable to collect some or a major part of future revenues, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, to the extent that the ongoing uncertainty in the global economy continues to make it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, our customers' ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, operating results and financial condition. Our loan and credit line agreements are subject to certain affirmative financial covenants. If we fail to comply with such covenants, the bank may require immediate repayment in full or foreclose on our pledged assets. Our loan and credit line agreements with Bank Leumi L’Israel Ltd. are subject to certain affirmative financial covenants regarding liquidity, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, performance, annual revenues and shareholder equity. While we are currently in compliance with all of the covenants, there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance throughout the term of the applicable agreement. If we fail to meet any of the covenants, we may be required to make immediate repayment of amounts outstanding, which may have an impact on our business, liquidity, and financial condition. Also, if we fail to repay amounts due under our loans, the bank may foreclose on certain of our pledged assets, including short term deposits and certain of our manufacturing facilities and equipment. We may face both reputational and SEC enforcement risks with respect to conflict minerals obligations. The SEC has adopted disclosure requirements under section 102 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding the source of certain minerals for which such conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo, and adjoining countries, including: Sudan, Uganda, Burundi, United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia, Angola, and Central African Republic. These rules require reporting companies to file a conflict minerals report as an exhibit to a Form SD report with the SEC, which we did as required in 2014. The conflict minerals report is required to set out the due diligence efforts and procedures exercised on the source and chain of custody of such conflict minerals, in accordance with internationally recognized due diligence framework, and a description of the Company’s products containing such conflict minerals. Although we expect that we will be able to continue to comply with the requirements of the applicable rules, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs to conduct country of origin inquiries and to exercise such due diligence. In addition, in preparing to do so the Company is dependent upon the implementation of new systems and processes and information supplied by certain suppliers of products that contain, or potentially contain, conflict minerals. To the extent that the information that it receives from its suppliers is inaccurate or inadequate or its processes in obtaining that information do not fulfill the SEC’s requirements, the Company could face both reputational and SEC enforcement risks. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our Ordinary Shares has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so. The market price of our Ordinary Shares may be significantly affected by factors such as the announcements of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors, technological innovations by us or our competitors or periodic variations in our results of operations. In addition, any statements or changes in estimates by analysts covering our shares or relating to the smart card industry could result in an immediate effect that may be adverse to the market price of our shares. 23 Trading in shares of companies listed on NASDAQ in general, and trading in shares of technology companies in particular, has been subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations that have been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These factors may depress the market price of our Ordinary Shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. Securities litigation has also often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. In the future, we may be the target of similar litigation that could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We may need additional funds in the future and our share price could be adversely affected by future sales of our Ordinary Shares. As of March 11, 2015, we had 40,817,903 outstanding Ordinary Shares, 1,178,699 Ordinary Shares that were repurchased by us and are held as dormant shares, 335,588 warrants to purchase additional Ordinary Shares at a weighted average exercise price of $2.92 per share and 1,923,833 options to purchase additional Ordinary Shares at a weighted average exercise price of $2.09 per share. On October 6, 2014, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC, or Shelf Registration, which was declared effective on October 22, 2014, under which we may, from time to time, sell up to an aggregate of $50 million of our securities. On November 26, 2014, we sold 7,187,500 Ordinary Shares at a public offering price of $1.60 per share under the Shelf Registration. We have implemented certain cost reduction initiatives and have reached certain arrangements and agreements that we expect will provide additional cash resources and are constantly looking for ways to increase our cash resources to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements. However, there is no assurance we will not need additional funds in the future to meet our operating expenses and capital requirements, and we may use the Shelf Registration in the future to raise funds by additional public offerings or issue additional Ordinary Shares. The market price of our Ordinary Shares could drop as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our Ordinary Shares in the public market or the perception that such sales may occur, including sales or perceived sales by our directors, officers or principal shareholders. These factors could also make it more difficult to raise additional funds through future offerings of our Ordinary Shares or other securities. Also if we are unable to obtain additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, we may be required to cease or reduce our operating activities. Our shareholders could experience dilution of their ownership interest by reason of our issuing more shares. Under Israeli law, shareholders in public companies do not have preemptive rights. This means that our shareholders do not have the legal right to purchase shares in a new issue before they are offered to third parties. In addition, our Board may approve in the future the use of the Shelf Registration and the issuance of shares in many instances without shareholder approval. As a result, our shareholders could experience dilution of their ownership interest by reason of our raising additional funds through the issuance of Ordinary Shares. In addition, we may continue to acquire companies or businesses in exchange for our shares, resulting in further dilution. The number of our authorized and unissued share capital may not be sufficient to allow us to raise additional capital or to otherwise issue equity securities that our Board may deem are in our best interest. We currently have only 6,406,741 authorized but unissued and unreserved ordinary shares. The current number of these unissued and unreserved shares may not be sufficient to allow us to conduct future offerings of our equity securities to raise capital, to grant options or to conduct other strategic transactions with our ordinary shares. Under Israeli corporate law, any increase in our authorized share capital requires the approval of our shareholders. Obtaining shareholder approval may delay or otherwise interfere with conducting transactions of the type mentioned above. Furthermore, there is no assurance that our shareholders will approve a proposal to increase our share capital. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our Ordinary Shares, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any return to investors is expected to come, if at all, only from potential increases in the price of our Ordinary Shares. The payment of any dividends by the Company is solely at the discretion of our Board and based on the conditions set forth in the Israeli Companies Law, or the Companies Law. We may fail to maintain effective internal control in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and in particular with Section 404, have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Although our management has determined that we had effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our future internal control over financial reporting. In addition, as smaller reporting company, our internal control over financial reporting is not required to be audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our Ordinary Shares. 24 We may not be able to meet NASDAQ continued listing requirements and our shares may be delisted. We may not be able to meet NASDAQ continued listing requirements in the NASDAQ Listing Rules, or the NASDAQ Rules, and our Ordinary Shares may be moved to NASDAQ Capital Market or delisted. Among other things, if the bid price of our Ordinary Shares is less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days or more, our shares may be moved to be traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market, or be delisted, subject to certain appeals processes and grace periods. Any such delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease. During the 52-week period ended March 11, 2015, the intra-day sales prices per share of our common stock on NASDAQ ranged from $1.12 to $5.00. Any such delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers and employees. Risks Related to Conducting Business in Israel Security, political and economic instability in the Middle East may harm our business. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, security, political and economic conditions in the Middle East in general, and in Israel in particular, may directly affect our business. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. From time to time since late 2000, there has also been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians, which has strained Israel’s relationships with its Arab citizens, with Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. During the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party and since March 2011, there has been a civil war in Syria, Israel’s neighboring country to the north. Occasionally, violence from Syria has spilled over into Israel’s border, and Israel has responded militarily several times since the onset of the civil war. During November 2012 and July 2014, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with a militia group and political party that controls the Gaza Strip. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. The instability created by these conflicts has led to deterioration of the political and trade relationships that exist between the State of Israel and these countries. In addition, this instability may affect the global economy and marketplace. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, would likely negatively affect business conditions and could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, some countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. Restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could have an adverse impact on the expansion of our business. In addition, we could be adversely affected by the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in the rate of inflation, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Terrorist attacks and acts of violence may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the financial markets on which our Ordinary Shares trade, the markets in which we operate, our operations and profitability and your investment. These attacks, or subsequent armed conflicts resulting from or connected to them, may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. For example, during the Second Lebanon War in 2006, numerous shells fired at Israel from Lebanese territory landed in Rosh Pina. Although such attacks did not have an adverse impact upon the Company or any of its operations, we cannot assure you that, in the future, any similar circumstances will have no such impact. In addition, terrorist attacks may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and/or expensive and affect the results of our operations. 25 Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of key personnel to perform Israeli military service. Some of our executive officers and employees are required to perform annual military reserve duty in Israel and may be called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees due to military service. Any disruption to our operations would harm our business. The Israeli government programs in which we currently participate, and the Israeli tax benefits we are currently entitled to, require us to meet several conditions, and they may be terminated or reduced in the future. This could increase our costs and/or our taxes. We are entitled to certain tax benefits under Israeli government programs, largely as a result of the “Approved Enterprise” status granted to some of our capital investment programs by the Israeli Ministry of Industry and Trade, and due to eligibility of tax benefits under the “Preferred Enterprise” routes. These benefits include tax exemption or reduced tax rates. Without such benefits our taxable income from such programs would be taxed at the regular corporate tax rate (25% in 2012 and 2013, 26.5% in 2014 and on). To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions, including making specified investments in property, plant and equipment and maintaining a certain minimum level of export sales. We cannot assure that we will continue to be eligible for these tax benefits at the same rate or at all. The termination or reduction of these programs and tax benefits could increase our taxes and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions relating to our business. In the past, we have received royalty-bearing grants from the OCS for research and development of certain of our products. We are obligated to pay royalties with respect to the grants that we received. In addition, the terms of the OCS grants limit our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel if such products or technologies were developed using know-how developed with or based upon OCS grants. Pursuant to the Israeli Encouragement of Research and Development in the Industry Law, we and any non-Israeli who becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital are generally required to notify the OCS and such non-Israeli shareholder is required to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the OCS, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. The terms of grants we received from the Israeli government for certain of our research and development activities may require us, in addition to the payment of royalties, to satisfy specified conditions in order to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel. We may also be required to pay penalties in addition to repayment of the grants. Our research and development efforts, during the period between 1999 and 2006, were financed in part through royalty-bearing grants that we received from the OCS. As of December 31, 2014, we received a total of approximately $7 million from the OCS ($3.4 million net of royalties paid by us (or accrued for)). With respect to such grants, we are committed to pay the OCS royalties at a rate of 3.5% from the sales of products developed with grant funds, up to the total amount of grants received, linked to the dollar and bearing interest at an annual rate of LIBOR applicable to dollar deposits. Even following full repayment of the OCS grants, we are required to comply with the requirements of the Israeli Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 5744-1984, and related regulations, or the Research Law. When a company develops know-how, technology or products using OCS grants, the terms of these grants and the Research Law restrict the transfer of such know-how, and the transfer of manufacturing or manufacturing rights of such products, technologies or know-how outside of Israel, without the prior approval of the OCS. Therefore, if aspects of our technologies are deemed to have been developed with OCS funding, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee would be required for any transfer to third parties outside of Israel of OCS-supported know-how or manufacturing or manufacturing rights related to those aspects of such technologies, and may result in payment of increased royalties (both increased royalty rates and increased royalties ceilings) and/or payment of additional amounts to the OCS. We may not receive such approvals. Furthermore, the OCS may impose certain conditions on any arrangement under which it permits us to transfer technology or development out of Israel (including for the purpose of manufacturing). Licensing OCS-supported technologies may, under certain circumstances, be considered a transfer of know-how and therefore may require approval as aforementioned. The transfer of OCS-supported technology, manufacturing or manufacturing rights or know-how outside of Israel may involve the payment of additional amounts depending upon the value of the transferred technology or know-how, the amount of OCS support, the time of completion of the OCS-supported research project and other factors up to a maximum of six times the amount of the grants received. These restrictions and requirements for payment may impair our ability to sell our technology assets outside of Israel or to outsource or transfer development or manufacturing activities with respect to any product or technology outside of Israel. Furthermore, the consideration available to our shareholders in a transaction involving the transfer outside of Israel of technology or know-how developed with OCS funding (such as a merger or similar transaction) may be reduced by any amounts that we are required to pay to the OCS. 26 Our obligations and limitations pursuant to the Research Law are not limited in time and may not be terminated by us at will. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Some of our executive officers are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets is located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws in an Israeli court against us or any of these persons or to affect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make undesirable an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. The Companies Law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers, requires special approvals for transactions involving shareholders holding 25% or more of the company’s capital, and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our Ordinary Shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 