risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this Form 10-K, in evaluating us and our business. The factors affecting our future performance changed dramatically as a result of the discontinuance of the last of our operating businesses effective June 30, 2003 and the transfer of all of our assets to a trustee of the assignment for the benefit of Aspeon and CCI creditors effective January 1, 2004. Rather than an operating business, our business is to raise debt and/or, equity to meet our ongoing operating costs and attempt to merge with another entity with experienced management and opportunities for growth in return for shares of our common stock to create value for our shareholders. There is no assurance that this series of events will be successfully completed. Although there is no assurance, we believe we can successfully complete an acquisition or merger, which will enable us to continue as a going concern. Any acquisition or merger will most likely be dilutive to our existing stockholders. WE HAVE INCURRED SIGNIFICANT LOSSES AND ANTICIPATE FUTURE LOSSES At June 30, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit in excess $85 million. Future losses are likely to occur as we have no sources of income to meet our operating expenses. As a result of these, among other factors, we received a report on our consolidated financial statements for the years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 from our independent accountants that include an explanatory paragraph stating 8 that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Consistent with our business plan, we plan on raising additional debt and/or, equity to meet our ongoing operating expenses and attempting to merge with another entity with experienced management and opportunities for growth in return for shares of our common stock to create value for our shareholders. There can be no assurance that this series of events will be successfully completed. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in acquiring operations, generating revenues or reaching or maintaining profitable operations. OUR EXISTING FINANCIAL RESOURCES ARE INSUFFICIENT TO MEET OUR ONGOING OPERATING EXPENSES We have no sources of income at this time and no existing cash balances that are adequate to meet our ongoing operating expenses. In the short term, unless we are able to raise additional debt and/or, equity we shall be unable to meet our ongoing operating expenses. On a longer term basis, we plan to acquire an entity with experienced management and the opportunities for growth in exchange for shares of our common stock and are dependent on achieving a successful merger with a profitable company. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in acquiring operations, generating revenues or reaching or maintaining profitable operations. WE BELIEVE THAT A SUBSTANTIAL BALANCE OF OUR LIABILITIES HAS BECOME STATUTE BARRED During the year ended June 30, 2009, outstanding liabilities, which had been incurred more than six years ago, were statute barred under the state laws of Massachusetts and we recognized a gain on these statute barred liabilities of $3,399,505. During the year ended June 30, 2008, outstanding liabilities, which had been incurred more than four years ago, were statute barred under the state laws of California and we recognized a gain on these statute barred liabilities of $2,102,917 Certain of our former creditors may disagree that our liabilities owed to them are no longer outstanding because they have become statute barred. If these former creditors were to successfully challenge the fact that our liabilities to them are no longer outstanding because they have become statute barred, we do not have the funds available to settle these liabilities. If these former liabilities were held to be valid and outstanding it is unlikely that we would be able to merge with another entity with experienced management and opportunities for growth in return for shares of our common stock to create value for our shareholders. WE BELIEVE THAT WE ELIMINATED A SUBSTANTIAL BALANCE OF OUR LIABILITIES BY OUR AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER AND REORGANIZATION INTO A HOLDING COMPANY AND THE SUBSEQUENT SALE OF OUR SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES During the year ended June 30, 2009, we recognized a gain on sale of subsidiary companies of $2,519,907 compared to no gain on sale of subsidiary companies in year ended June 30, 2008, an increase of $2,519,907. Certain of creditors of our former subsidiary companies may believe that that are entitled to make claims against ASPI, Inc. If these subsidiary creditors were to successfully in making claims against ASPI, Inc, ASPI, Inc. does not have the funds available to settle these liabilities. If these former liabilities were held to be valid and outstanding it is unlikely that ASPI, Inc. would be able to merge with another entity with experienced management and opportunities for growth in return for shares of its common stock to create value for its shareholders. WE INTEND TO PURSUE THE ACQUISITION OF AN OPERATING BUSINESS Our sole strategy is to acquire an operating business. Successful implementation of this strategy depends on our ability to identify a suitable acquisition candidate, acquire such company on acceptable terms and integrate its operations. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we compete with other companies with similar strategies. Competition for acquisition targets may 9 result in increased prices of acquisition targets and a diminished pool of companies available for acquisition. Acquisitions involve a number of other risks, including risks of acquiring undisclosed or undesired liabilities, acquired in-process technology, stock compensation expense, diversion of management attention, potential disputes with the seller of one or more acquired entities and possible failure to retain key acquired personnel. Any acquired entity or assets may not perform relative to our expectations. Our ability to meet these challenges has not been established. SCARCITY OF, AND COMPEETITION FOR, BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES AND COMBINATIONS We believe we are an insignificant participant among the firms which engage in the acquisition of business opportunities. There are many established venture capital and financial concerns that have significantly greater financial and personnel resources and technical expertise than we have. Nearly all such entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than us and, consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. Moreover, we will also compete in seeking merger or acquisition candidates with numerous other small public companies. In view of our limited financial resources and limited management availability, we will continue to be at a significant competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors. WE HAVE NOT EXECUTED ANY FORMAL AGREEMENT FOR A BUSINESS COMBINATION OR OTHER TRANSACTION AND HAVE ESTABLISHED NO STANDARDS FOR BUSINESS COMBINATIONS We have not executed any formal arrangement, agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a merger with, joint venture with or acquisition of a private or public entity. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in concluding a business combination. We have not identified any particular industry or specific business within an industry for evaluation. There is no assurance we will be able to negotiate a business combination on terms favorable, if at all. We have not established a specific length of operating history or specified level of earnings, assets, net worth or other criteria which we will require a target business opportunity to have achieved, and without which we would not consider a business combination. Accordingly, we may enter into a business combination with a business opportunity having no significant operating history, losses, limited or no potential for earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. REDUCTION OF PERCENTAGE SHARE OWNERSHIP FOLLOWING BUSINESS COMBINATION AND DILUTION TO STOCKHOLDERS Our primary plan of operation is based upon a business combination with a private concern which, in all likelihood, would result in us issuing securities to stockholders of such private company. The issuance of previously authorized and unissued shares of our common stock would result in reduction in percentage of shares owned by present and prospective stockholders and may result in a change in control or management. In addition, any merger or acquisition can be expected to have a significant dilutive effect on the percentage of the shares held our stockholders. BECAUSE INSIDERS CONTROL OUR ACTIVITIES, THAT MAY CAUSE US TO ACT IN A MANNER THAT IS MOST BENEFICIAL TO THEM AND NOT TO OUTSIDE SHAREHOLDERS WHICH COULD CAUSE US NOT TO TAKE ACTIONS THAT OUTSIDE INVESTORS MIGHT VIEW FAVORABLY Top Growth Holdings Group, Inc., a British Virgin Islands corporation beneficially owned by Ms. Jeanne Look, owns 81% of our issued share capital. As a result, Top Growth Holdings Group, Inc. and Ms. Look effectively control all matters requiring director and stockholder approval, including the election of directors, the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers and related party transaction. These insiders also have the ability to delay or perhaps even block, by their ownership of our stock, an unsolicited tender offer. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company that you might view favorably. OUR DIRECTORS MAY HAVE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST WHICH MAY NOT BE RESOLVED FAVORABLY TO US. Certain conflicts of interest may exist between our directors and us. Our Directors have other business interests to which they devote their attention, and may be expected to continue to do so although management time should be devoted to our business. As a result, conflicts of interest may arise that can 10 be resolved only through exercise of such judgment as is consistent with fiduciary duties to us. See "Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance" (page 23), and "Conflicts of Interest." LOSS OF CONTROL BY OUR STOCKHOLDERS MAY OCCUR UPON ISSUANCE OF ADDITIONAL SHARES. We may issue further shares as consideration for the cash or assets or services out of our authorized but unissued common stock that would, upon issuance, represent a majority of our voting power and equity. The result of such an issuance would be those new stockholders and management would control us, and persons unknown could replace our management at this time. Such an occurrence would result in a greatly reduced percentage of ownership of us by our current stockholders. WE MAY DEPEND UPON OUTSIDE ADVISORS, WHO MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE ON REASONABLE TERMS AND AS NEEDED. To supplement the business experience of our officers and directors, we may be required to employ accountants, technical experts, appraisers, attorneys, or other consultants or advisors. Our Board without any input from stockholders will make the selection of any such advisors. Furthermore, it is anticipated that such persons may be engaged on an "as needed" basis without a continuing fiduciary or other obligation to us. In the event we consider it necessary to hire outside advisors, we may elect to hire persons who are affiliates, if they are able to provide the required services. THE REGULATION OF PENNY STOCKS BY SEC AND FINRA MAY HAVE AN EFFECT ON THE TRADABILITY OF OUR SECURITIES. Our securities are currently listed on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board and the Pink Sheets. Our shares are subject to a Securities and Exchange Commission rule that imposes special sales practice requirements upon broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers or accredited investors. For purposes of the rule, the phrase "accredited investors" means, in general terms, institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000, or individuals having a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or having an annual income that exceeds $200,000 (or that, when combined with a spouse's income, exceeds $300,000). For transactions covered by the rule, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and also may affect the ability of purchasers in this offering to sell their securities in any market that might develop therefore. In addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted a number of rules to regulate "penny stocks." Such rules include Rules 3a51-1, 15g-1, 15g-2, 15g-3, 15g-4, 15g-5, 15g-6, 15g-7, and 15g-9 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Because our securities constitute "penny stocks" within the meaning of the rules, the rules would apply to us and to our securities. The rules may further affect the ability of owners of Shares to sell our securities in any market that might develop for them. Shareholders should be aware that, according to Securities and Exchange Commission, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (i) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (ii) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (iii) "boiler room" practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (iv) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (v) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. OUR STOCK WILL IN ALL LIKELIHOOD BE THINLY TRADED AND AS A RESULT YOU MAY BE UNABLE TO SELL AT OR NEAR ASK PRICES OR AT ALL IF YOU NEED TO LIQUIDATE YOUR SHARES. The shares of our common stock may be thinly-traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our shares of common stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to 11 the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven, early stage company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares of common stock until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares of common stock is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on Securities price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our shares of Common Stock will develop or be sustained, or that any trading levels will be sustained. Due to these conditions, we can give investors no assurance that they will be able to sell their shares of common stock at or near ask prices or at all if you need money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares of common stock of our Company. RULE 144 SALES IN THE FUTURE MAY HAVE A DEPRESSIVE EFFECT ON OUR STOCK PRICE. All of the outstanding shares of common stock held by our present officers, directors, and affiliate stockholders are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As restricted Shares, these Shares may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement or under the requirements of Rule 144 or other applicable exemptions from registration under the Act and as required under applicable state securities laws. We are registering all of our outstanding Shares so officers, directors and affiliates will be able to sell their Shares if this Registration Statement becomes effective. Rule 144 provides in essence that a person who has held restricted securities for six months may, under certain conditions, sell every three months, in brokerage transactions, a number of Shares that does not exceed the greater of 1.0% of a company's outstanding common stock or the average weekly trading volume during the four calendar weeks prior to the sale. There is no limit on the amount of restricted securities that may be sold by a nonaffiliate after the owner has held the restricted securities for a period of six months. A sale under Rule 144 or under any other exemption from the Act, may have a depressive effect upon the price of the common stock in any market that may develop. THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD BE HIGHLY VOLATILE Having obtained a listing on the over the counter bulletin board it is likely that our common stock will be subject to price volatility, low volumes of trades and large spreads in bid and ask prices quoted by market makers. Due to the low volume of shares traded on any trading day, persons buying or selling in relatively small quantities may easily influence prices of our common stock. This low volume of trades could also cause the price of our stock to fluctuate greatly, with large percentage changes in price occurring in any trading day session. Holders of our common stock may also not be able to readily liquidate their investment or may be forced to sell at depressed prices due to low volume trading. If high spreads between the bid and ask prices of our common stock exist at the time of a purchase, the stock would have to appreciate substantially on a relative percentage basis for an investor to recoup their investment. Broad market fluctuations and general economic and political conditions may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. No assurance can be given that an active market in our common stock will develop or be sustained. If an active market does not develop, holders of our common stock may be unable to readily sell the shares they hold or may not be able to sell their shares at all. WE DO NOT ANTICIPATE PAYING CASH DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 