Item 1A. Risk Factors. In the discussion of risk factors set forth below, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “OGE Energy”, “we”, “our” and “us” refer to OGE Energy Corp., “OG&E” refers to our subsidiary Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company and “Enogex” refers to our subsidiary Enogex LLC and its subsidiaries. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents filed by us and/or our subsidiaries with the SEC from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating OGE Energy and its subsidiaries. Such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us or our subsidiaries. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business operations. REGULATORY RISKS Our profitability depends to a large extent on the ability of OG&E to fully recover its costs from its customers and there may be changes in the regulatory environment that impair its ability to recover costs from its customers. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by several Federal and state utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and OG&E’s ability to fully recover its costs from utility customers. With rising fuel costs, recoverability of under recovered amounts from our customers is a significant risk. The utility commissions in the states where OG&E operates regulate many aspects of our utility operations including siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that we can charge customers. The profitability of our utility operations is dependent on our ability to fully recover costs related to providing energy and utility services to our customers. In recent years, the regulatory environments in which we operate have received an increased amount of public attention. It is possible that there could be changes in the regulatory environment that would impair our ability to fully recover costs historically absorbed by our customers. State utility commissions generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met. Although OG&E has several rate proceedings currently pending, and expects to file a general rate case in Oklahoma shortly, we cannot assure that the OCC, APSC and the FERC will grant us rate increases in the future or in the amounts we request, and they could instead lower our rates. We are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from the future regulatory activities of any of the agencies that regulate us. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 24 OG&E’s rates are subject to regulation by the states of Oklahoma and Arkansas, as well as by a Federal agency, whose regulatory paradigms and goals may not be consistent. OG&E is currently a vertically integrated electric utility and most of its revenue results from the sale of electricity to retail customers subject to bundled rates that are approved by the applicable state utility commission and from the sale of electricity to wholesale customers subject to rates and other matters approved by the FERC. OG&E operates in Oklahoma and western Arkansas and is subject to regulation by the OCC and the APSC, in addition to the FERC. Exposure to inconsistent state and Federal regulatory standards may limit our ability to operate profitably. Further alteration of the regulatory landscape in which we operate may harm our financial position and results of operations. Costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations are significant and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations, consolidated financial position, or liquidity. We are subject to extensive Federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife mortality, natural resources and health and safety that could, among other things, restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or the use of certain fuels required for the production of electricity and/or require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase costs. There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations and those costs may be even more significant in the future. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our operations due to our handling of natural gas, air emissions related to our operations and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. We may be able to recover these costs from insurance. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. There also is growing concern nationally and internationally about global climate change and the contribution of emissions of greenhouse gases including, most significantly, carbon dioxide. This concern has led to increased interest in legislation at the Federal level, actions at the state level, as well as litigation relating to greenhouse gas emissions, including a U.S. Supreme Court decision holding that the EPA has the authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles under the Federal Clean Air Act. Increased pressure for carbon dioxide emissions reduction also is coming from investor organizations and the international community. Oklahoma and Arkansas have not, at this time, established any mandatory programs to regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. However, government officials in these states have declared support for state and Federal action on climate change issues. OG&E reports quarterly its carbon dioxide emissions from its generating stations under the EPA’s acid rain program and is continuing to evaluate various options for reducing, avoiding, off-setting or sequestering its carbon dioxide emissions. Enogex is a partner in the EPA Natural Gas STAR Program, a voluntary program to reduce methane emissions. If legislation or regulations are passed at the Federal or state levels in the future requiring mandatory reductions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases on generation facilities to address climate change, this could result in significant additional compliance costs that would affect our future consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion. We may not be able to recover the costs of our substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions. Our business plan for OG&E calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades and retrofits and modernizing existing infrastructure as well as other initiatives. Significant portions of OG&E’s facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements or to provide reliable operations. OG&E currently provides service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. If these regulatory commissions do not approve adjustments to the rates we charge, we would not be able to recover the costs associated with our planned extensive investment. This could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. While we may seek to limit the impact of any denied recovery by 25 attempting to reduce the scope of our capital investment, there can no assurance as to the effectiveness of any such mitigation efforts, particularly with respect to previously incurred costs and commitments. Our planned capital investment program coincides with a material increase in the historic prices of the fuels used to generate electricity. Many of our jurisdictions have fuel clauses that permit us to recover these increased fuel costs through rates without a general rate case. While prudent capital investment and variable fuel costs each generally warrant recovery, in practical terms our regulators could limit the amount or timing of increased costs that we would recover through higher rates. Any such limitation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The construction by Enogex of additions or modifications to its existing systems, and the construction of new midstream assets, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, many of which are beyond Enogex’s control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. These projects, once undertaken, may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, Enogex’s revenues and cash flows may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if Enogex expands a new pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and Enogex may not receive any material increases in revenues or cash flows until the project is completed. In addition, Enogex may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. Since Enogex is not engaged in the exploration for and development of natural gas, Enogex often does not have access to third-party estimates of potential reserves in areas to be developed prior to constructing facilities in those areas. To the extent Enogex relies on estimates of future production in deciding to construct additions to its systems, those estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract sufficient throughput to achieve expected investment return, which could adversely affect Enogex’s results of operations, consolidated financial position and cash flows. In addition, the construction of additions to existing gathering and transportation assets may require new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. Those rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to existing gathering lines may be unavailable and Enogex may not be able to capitalize on attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, Enogex’s consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. The regional power market in which OG&E operates has changing transmission regulatory structures, which may affect the transmission assets and related revenues and expenses. OG&E currently owns and operates transmission and generation facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. OG&E is a member of the SPP regional transmission organization (“RTO”) and has transferred operational authority (but not ownership) of OG&E’s transmission facilities to the SPP RTO. The SPP RTO implemented a regional energy imbalance service market on February 1, 2007. OG&E has participated, and continues to participate, in the SPP energy imbalance service market to aid in the optimization of its physical assets to serve OG&E’s customers. OG&E has not participated in the SPP energy imbalance service market for any speculative trading activities. The SPP purchases and sales are not allocated to individual customers. OG&E records the hourly sales to the SPP at market rates in Operating Revenues and the hourly purchases from the SPP at market rates in Cost of Goods Sold in its Consolidated Financial Statements. OG&E’s revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities may be adversely affected by changes in the organization, operation and regulation by the FERC or the SPP RTO. Increased competition resulting from restructuring efforts could have a significant financial impact on us and OG&E and consequently decrease our revenue. We have been and will continue to be affected by competitive changes to the utility and energy industries. Significant changes already have occurred and additional changes have been proposed to the wholesale electric market. Although retail restructuring efforts in Oklahoma and Arkansas have been postponed for the time being, if such efforts were renewed, retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy service could have a significant financial impact on us due to possible impairments of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins and/or increased costs of capital. Any such restructuring could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot predict when we will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can we predict the impact of these changes on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of Enogex’s assets by Federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of its assets, which may cause its revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. 26 Enogex’s natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation operations are generally exempt from the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, but the FERC regulation may indirectly impact these businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. The FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its oil and natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on interstate open access transportation, ratemaking and capacity release and its promotion of market centers, may indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, the FERC has aggressively pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate oil and natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that the FERC will continue to pursue these same objectives as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas transportation business. Enogex’s natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to regulation by the FERC pursuant to Section 311 of the NGPA, which could have an adverse impact on its ability to establish transportation and storage rates that would allow it to recover the full cost of operating its transportation and storage facilities, including a reasonable return, and an adverse impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The FERC has jurisdiction over transportation rates charged by Enogex for transporting natural gas in interstate commerce under Section 311 of the NGPA. Rates to provide such service must be “fair and equitable” under the NGPA and are subject to review and approval by the FERC at least once every three years. Enogex is currently charging rates for its Section 311 transportation services that were deemed fair and equitable under a rate settlement approved by the FERC for the period from January 1, 2005 until December 31, 2007. On October 1, 2007, Enogex made its required triennial rate filing at the FERC to update its Section 311 maximum interruptible transportation rates for service in the East Zone and West Zone. Enogex’s filing requested an increase in the maximum zonal rates and proposed to place such rates into effect on January 1, 2008. A number of parties intervened and some additionally filed protests. The regulations provide that the FERC has 150 days to act on the filing but also permit the FERC to issue an order extending the time period for action. By order of February 28, 2008, the FERC extended the time period in this docket by 120 days and encouraged the parties to settle. No action has yet been taken by the FERC and the parties are currently in settlement negotiations. Enogex cannot predict what the settlement terms will be or, if not settled, what determinations the FERC will make with respect to this proceeding or what impact, if any, those determinations might have on Enogex’s ability to establish transportation rates that would allow Enogex to recover the full cost, including a reasonable return, of operating its transportation facilities and that portion of its storage capacity used in support of transportation services. Accordingly, Enogex cannot predict what impact, if any, such determinations could have on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Enogex’s natural gas transportation, storage and gathering operations are subject to regulation by agencies in Oklahoma and Texas, and that regulation could have an adverse impact on its ability to establish rates that would allow it to recover the full cost of operating its facilities, including a reasonable return, and its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. State regulation of natural gas transportation, storage and gathering facilities generally focuses on various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory access requirements and complaint-based rate regulation. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at the state level; therefore, Enogex’s natural gas gathering operations could be adversely affected should they become subject to the application of state regulation of rates and services. Enogex’s gathering operations also may be or become subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the integrity, design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered and, in some instances, adopted from time to time. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on Enogex’s operations, but Enogex could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Other state and local regulations also may affect Enogex’s business. Any such state regulation could have an adverse impact on Enogex’s business and its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Enogex may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline integrity programs and related repairs. Pursuant to the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, the DOT has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines. The regulations require operators to: • identify potential threats to the public or environment, including “high consequence areas” on covered pipeline segments where a leak or rupture could do the most harm; • develop a baseline plan to prioritize the assessment of a covered pipeline segment; • gather data and identify and characterize applicable threats that could impact a covered pipeline segment; • discover, evaluate and remediate problems in accordance with the program requirements; • continuously improve all elements of the integrity program; • continuously perform preventative and mitigation actions; 27 • maintain a quality assurance process and management-of-change process; and • establish a communication plan that addresses safety concerns raised by the DOT and state agencies, including the periodic submission of performance documents to the DOT. During 2008, Enogex incurred approximately $7.9 million of capital expenditures and operating costs to implement its pipeline integrity management program along certain segments of its natural gas pipelines. Enogex currently estimates that it will incur capital expenditures and operating costs of approximately $35.7 million between 2009 and 2013 in connection with its pipeline integrity management program. The estimated capital expenditures and operating costs include Enogex’s estimates for the assessment, remediation, prevention or other mitigation that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the integrity management program. At this time, we cannot predict the ultimate costs of compliance with this regulation because those costs will depend on the number and extent of any repairs found to be necessary as a result of the pipeline integrity assessment that is required by the rule. Enogex will continue its pipeline integrity program to assess, remediate and maintain the integrity of its pipelines. The results of these activities could cause Enogex to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operations of its pipelines. Events that are beyond our control have increased the level of public and regulatory scrutiny of our industry. Governmental and market reactions to these events may have negative impacts on our business, consolidated financial position, cash flows and access to capital. As a result of accounting irregularities at public companies in general, and energy companies in particular, and investigations by governmental authorities into energy trading activities, public companies, including those in the regulated and unregulated utility business, have been under an increased amount of public and regulatory scrutiny and suspicion. The accounting irregularities have caused regulators and legislators to review current accounting practices, financial disclosures and relationships between companies and their independent auditors. The capital markets and rating agencies also have increased their level of scrutiny. We believe that we are complying with all applicable laws and accounting standards, but it is difficult or impossible to predict or control what effect these types of events may have on our business, consolidated financial position, cash flows or access to the capital markets. It is unclear what additional laws or regulations may develop, and we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any future changes in accounting regulations or practices in general with respect to public companies, the energy industry or our operations specifically. Any new accounting standards could affect the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. These changes in accounting standards could lead to negative impacts on reported earnings or decreases in assets or increases in liabilities that could, in turn, affect our results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to substantial utility and energy regulation by governmental agencies. Compliance with current and future utility and energy regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits and certifications may result in significant costs to us. We are subject to substantial regulation from Federal, state and local regulatory agencies. We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of our businesses, including customer rates, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices and the operation of generating facilities. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of these agencies. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 gave the FERC authority to establish mandatory electric reliability rules enforceable with significant monetary penalties. The FERC has approved the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (“NERC”) as the Electric Reliability Organization for North America and delegated to it the development and enforcement of electric transmission reliability rules. It is the Company’s intent to comply with all applicable reliability rules and expediently correct a violation should it occur. The Company is subject to a NERC readiness evaluation and compliance audit every three years and cannot predict the outcome of those audits. OPERATIONAL RISKS Our results of operations may be impacted by disruptions beyond our control. We are exposed to risks related to performance of contractual obligations by our suppliers. We are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. We rely on suppliers to deliver coal in accordance with short and long-term contracts. We have certain coal supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to 28 these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us. The suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. In addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. Coal delivery may be subject to short-term interruptions or reductions due to various factors, including transportation problems, weather and availability of equipment. Failure or delay by our suppliers of coal deliveries could disrupt our ability to deliver electricity and require us to incur additional expenses to meet the needs of our customers. In addition, as agreements with our suppliers expire, we may not be able to enter into new agreements for coal delivery on equivalent terms. Also, because our generation and transmission systems are part of an interconnected regional grid, we face the risk of possible loss of business due to a disruption or black-out caused by an event (severe storm, generator or transmission facility outage) on a neighboring system or the actions of a neighboring utility, similar to the August 14, 2003 black-out in portions of the eastern U.S. and Canada. Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. The consequences of a prolonged recession could include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues and future growth. Instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also could affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. Current economic conditions may be exacerbated by insufficient financial sector liquidity leading to potential increased unemployment, which could impact the ability of our customers to pay timely, increase customer bankruptcies, and could lead to increased bad debt. If such circumstances occur, we expect that commercial and industrial customers would be impacted first, with residential customers following. Terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and the magnitude of the threat of future terrorist attacks on the electric utility and natural gas midstream industry in general, and on us in particular, cannot be known. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of supplies and markets for our products, and the possibility that our infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than existing insurance coverage. Enogex does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt its operations. Enogex does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and it is therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if it does not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. Enogex obtains the rights to construct and operate its pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies sometimes for a specific period of time. A loss of these rights, through Enogex’s inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could cause Enogex to cease operations temporarily or permanently on the affected land, increase costs related to continuing operations elsewhere, reduce its revenue and impair its cash flows. Weather conditions such as tornadoes, thunderstorms, ice storms, wind storms, as well as seasonal temperature variations may adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. In OG&E’s service area, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. As a result, overall operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce our revenues, net income, available cash and borrowing ability. Severe weather, such as tornadoes, thunderstorms, ice storms and wind 29 storms, may cause outages and property damage which may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned, as described above, would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period. Natural gas and NGL prices are volatile, and changes in these prices could adversely affect Enogex’s results of operations and cash flows. Enogex is subject to risks due to frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. Enogex’s results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by volatility in natural gas and NGL prices. Enogex’s gathering and processing margins generally improve when NGL prices are high relative to the price of natural gas. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and Enogex expects this volatility to continue. With respect to natural gas, the mid-continent prices for natural gas, as represented by the Inside FERC monthly index posting for Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co., Texas, Oklahoma, for the forward month contract in 2006 ranged from a high of $8.76 per MMBtu to a low of $3.54 per MMBtu. In 2007, the same index ranged from a high of $6.82 per MMBtu to a low of $4.73 per MMBtu. In 2008, the same index ranged from a high of $11.07 per MMBtu to a low of $2.81 per MMBtu. Natural gas prices reached relatively high levels in mid-2008 due to the impact of rising demand for natural gas but have returned to the near $4.50 per MMBtu level due to a rapid decline in demand for natural gas. With respect to NGLs, the mid-continent prices for propane, for example, as represented by the average of the Oil Price Information Service daily average posting at the Conway, Kansas market, in 2007 ranged from a high of $1.52 per gallon to a low of $0.87 per gallon. In 2008, the same index ranged from a high of $1.76 per gallon to a low of $0.70 per gallon. Enogex’s future revenue and cash flows may be materially adversely affected if the midstream industry experiences significant, prolonged deterioration below general price levels experienced in recent years. Some factors that affect prices of natural gas and NGLs are beyond our control and changes in these prices could adversely affect Enogex’s and OERI’s revenue and cash flows. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond Enogex’s and OERI’s control and changes in these prices could adversely affect Enogex’s and OERI’s revenue and cash flows. These factors include demand for these commodities, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including the impact of seasonality and weather, general economic conditions, the level of domestic and offshore natural gas production and consumption, the availability of imported natural gas, liquified natural gas and NGLs, actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations, the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems, the availability and marketing of competitive fuels, the impact of energy conservation efforts, technological advances affecting energy consumption and the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Enogex’s “keep-whole” natural gas processing arrangements and “percent-of-proceeds” and “percent-of-liquids” natural gas processing agreements expose it to risks associated with fluctuations associated with the price of natural gas and NGLs, which could adversely affect Enogex’s revenue and cash flows. Enogex’s keep-whole natural gas processing arrangements, which constituted approximately 23 percent of its gross margin and accounted for approximately 54 percent of its natural gas processed volumes during 2008, expose it to fluctuations in the pricing spreads between NGL prices and natural gas prices. Keep-whole processing arrangements generally require a processor of natural gas to keep its shippers whole on a Btu basis by replacing the Btu’s of the NGLs extracted from the production stream with Btu’s of natural gas. Therefore, if natural gas prices increase and NGL prices do not increase by a corresponding amount, the processor has to replace the Btu’s of natural gas at higher prices and processing margins are negatively affected. Enogex’s percent-of-proceeds and percent-of-liquids natural gas processing agreements constituted approximately nine percent of its gross margin and accounted for approximately 36 percent of its natural gas processed volumes during 2008. Under these arrangements, Enogex generally gathers raw natural gas from producers at the wellhead, transports the gas through its gathering system, processes the gas and sells the processed gas and/or NGLs at prices based on published index prices. The price paid to producers is based on an agreed percentage of the proceeds of the sale of processed natural gas, NGLs or both or the expected proceeds based on an index price. Enogex refers to contracts in which it shares in specified percentages of the proceeds from the sale of natural gas and NGLs as percent-of-proceeds arrangements and in which it receives proceeds from the sale of NGLs or the NGLs themselves as compensation for its processing services as percent-of-liquids arrangements. These arrangements expose Enogex to risks associated with the price of natural gas and NGLs. At any given time, Enogex’s overall portfolio of processing contracts may reflect a net short position in natural gas (meaning that Enogex was a net buyer of natural gas) and a net long position in NGLs (meaning that Enogex was a net seller 30 of NGLs). As a result, Enogex’s margins could be negatively impacted to the extent the price of NGLs decreases in relation to the price of natural gas. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells connected to Enogex’s systems, Enogex’s success depends on its ability to gather new sources of natural gas, which depends on certain factors beyond its control. Any decrease in supplies of natural gas could adversely affect our and Enogex’s business and results of operations and cash flows. Enogex’s gathering and transportation systems are connected to or dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells, from which production will naturally decline over time. As a result, Enogex’s cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on its gathering and transportation systems and the asset utilization rates at its natural gas processing plants, Enogex must continually obtain new natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting Enogex’s ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and attract new customers to its assets depends in part on the level of successful drilling activity near these systems, Enogex’s ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells and Enogex’s ability to expand capacity as needed. If Enogex is not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on its gathering, processing and transportation facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and cash flows. Enogex’s businesses are dependent, in part, on the drilling decisions of others. All of Enogex’s businesses are dependent on the continued availability of natural gas production. Enogex does not have control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of its operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. The primary factor that impacts drilling decisions is natural gas prices. Natural gas prices reached relatively high levels in mid-2008 due to the impact of rising demand for natural gas but have returned to the near $4.50 per MMBtu level due to a rapid decline in demand for natural gas. A sustained decline in natural gas prices could result in a decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by Enogex’s gathering, processing and transportation facilities, which would lead to reduced utilization of these assets. Other factors that impact production decisions include producers’ capital budgets, access to credit, the ability of producers to obtain necessary drilling and other governmental permits, costs of steel and other commodities, geological considerations, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, other production and development costs and regulatory changes. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by Enogex’s assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. Enogex and OERI engage in commodity hedging activities to minimize the impact of commodity price risk, which may have a volatile effect on their earnings and cash flows. Enogex and OERI are exposed to changes in commodity prices in their operations. To minimize the risk of commodity prices, Enogex and OERI may enter into physical forward sales or financial derivative contracts to hedge purchase and sale commitments, fuel requirements and inventories of natural gas. However, financial derivative contracts do not eliminate the risk of market supply shortages, which could result in Enogex’s and OERI’s inability to fulfill contractual obligations and incurrence of significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts. Enogex and OERI marks their derivative contracts to estimated fair market value. When available, market prices are utilized in determining the value of natural gas and related derivative commodity instruments. For longer-term positions, which are limited to a maximum of 60 months, and certain short-term positions for which market prices are not available, models based on forward price curves are utilized. These models incorporate estimates and assumptions as to a variety of factors such as pricing relationships between various energy commodities and geographic locations. Actual experience can vary significantly from these estimates and assumptions. Enogex and OERI engage in cash flow hedge transactions to manage commodity risk. Hedges of anticipated transactions are documented as cash flow hedges pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” and are executed based upon management-established price targets. Enogex and OERI utilize hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133 to manage commodity exposure for contractual length and storage natural gas, percent-of-liquids and keep-whole natural gas and NGL hedges. Hedges are evaluated prior to execution with respect to the impact on the volatility of forecasted earnings and are evaluated at least quarterly after execution for the impact on earnings. For derivatives that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative instrument is reported as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income and recognized into earnings in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of a derivative’s change in fair value is recognized currently in earnings. Forecasted transactions designated as the hedged transaction in a cash flow hedge are regularly evaluated to assess whether they continue 31 to be probable of occurring. If the forecasted transactions are no longer probable of occurring, hedge accounting will cease on a prospective basis and all future changes in the fair value of the derivative will be recognized directly in earnings. If the forecasted transactions are no longer reasonably possible of occurring, any associated amounts recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income will also be recognized directly in earnings. As a result of the factors discussed above, Enogex’s and OERI’s hedging activities may not be as effective as intended in reducing the volatility of its cash flows. In addition, these activities can result in substantial losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement, the hedging arrangement is imperfect or ineffective or the hedging policies and procedures are not properly followed or do not work as planned. The steps taken to monitor Enogex’s and OERI’s hedging activities may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. Enogex’s results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by risks associated with its hedging activities. Enogex has instituted a hedging program that is intended to reduce the commodity price risk associated with Enogex’s keep-whole and percent-of-liquids arrangements. Enogex intends to hedge approximately 70 percent of its NGL volumes when market conditions dictate. As of December 31, 2008, Enogex had hedged approximately 65 percent of its expected non-ethane NGL volumes attributable to these arrangements, along with the natural gas MMBtu equivalent for keep-whole volumes, for 2009 through 2011, including approximately 86 percent for 2009, 77 percent for 2010 and 37 percent for 2011. As of December 31, 2008, Enogex had not hedged any of its expected ethane volumes attributable to these arrangements, along with the natural gas MMBtu equivalent for keep-whole volumes, for 2009. Enogex has the option to reject ethane if processing it is not economical. Management will continue to evaluate whether to enter into any new hedging arrangements, and there can be no assurance that Enogex will enter into any new hedging arrangements. Also, Enogex may seek in the future to further limit its exposure to changes in natural gas and NGL commodity prices and interest rates by using financial derivative instruments and other hedging mechanisms. To the extent Enogex hedges its commodity price and interest rate exposures, Enogex will forego the benefits that otherwise would be experienced if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in Enogex’s favor. In addition, even though management monitors Enogex’s hedging activities, these activities can result in substantial losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement, the hedging arrangement is imperfect or ineffective, or the hedging policies and procedures are not followed or do not work as planned. Enogex depends on certain key natural gas producer customers for a significant portion of its supply of natural gas and NGLs. The loss of, or reduction in volumes from, any of these customers could result in a decline in its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Enogex relies on certain key natural gas producer customers for a significant portion of its natural gas and NGL supply. During 2008, Chesapeake Energy Marketing Inc., Apache Corporation, Devon Gas Services, L.P., Samson Resources Company and Cimarex Energy Co. accounted for approximately 52 percent of Enogex’s natural gas and NGL supply. The loss of the natural gas and NGL volumes supplied by these customers, the failure to extend or replace these contracts or the extension or replacement of these contracts on less favorable terms, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on Enogex’s consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Enogex depends on two customers for a significant portion of its firm intrastate transportation and storage services. The loss of, or reduction in volumes from, either of these customers could result in a decline in Enogex’s transportation and storage services and its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Enogex provides firm intrastate transportation and storage services to several customers on its system. Enogex’s major customers are OG&E and PSO, which is the second largest electric utility in Oklahoma and serves the Tulsa market. As part of the no-notice load following contract with OG&E, Enogex provides natural gas storage services for OG&E. Enogex provides gas transmission delivery services to all of PSO’s natural gas-fired electric generation facilities in Oklahoma under a firm intrastate transportation contract. During 2006, 2007 and 2008, revenues from Enogex’s firm intrastate transportation and storage contracts were approximately $98.1 million, $103.9 million and $104.4 million, respectively, of which $47.6 million, $47.4 million and $47.5 million, respectively, was attributed to OG&E and $13.3 million, $13.3 million and $15.3 million, respectively, was attributed to PSO. Enogex’s current contract with PSO expires January 1, 2013, unless extended. The stated term of Enogex’s current contract with OG&E expires April 30, 2009, but the contract will remain in effect from year to year thereafter unless either party provides written notice of termination to the other party at least 180 days prior to the commencement of the next succeeding annual period. Because neither party provided notice of termination 180 days prior to May 1, 2009, the contract will remain in effect at least through April 30, 2010. The loss of all or even a portion of the intrastate transportation and storage services for either of these customers, the 32 failure to extend or replace these contracts or the extension or replacement of these contracts on less favorable terms, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on Enogex’s consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Enogex may not be successful in balancing its purchases and sales of natural gas and NGLs, which would increase its exposure to commodity price risk. In the normal course of business, Enogex purchases or retains from producers and other customers some of the natural gas and NGLs that flow through its natural gas gathering, processing and transportation systems for resale to third parties, including natural gas marketers and end-users. Enogex may not be successful in balancing its purchases and sales. A producer or supplier could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a purchaser could purchase less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause Enogex’s purchases and sales to be unbalanced. If Enogex’s purchases and sales are unbalanced, it will face increased exposure to commodity price risk and Enogex could have increased volatility in its operating income and cash flows. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to Enogex’s gathering, processing or transportation facilities become partially or fully unavailable, Enogex’s revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected. Enogex depends upon third-party natural gas pipelines to deliver gas to, and take gas from, its transportation system. Enogex also depends on third-party facilities to transport and fractionate NGLs that it delivers to the third party at the tailgates of its processing plants. Fractionation is the separation of the heterogeneous mixture of extracted NGLs into individual components for end-use sale. Since Enogex does not own or operate any of these third-party pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within Enogex’s control. If any of these third-party pipelines or other facilities become partially or fully unavailable, Enogex’s revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected. Enogex’s industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Enogex competes with similar enterprises in its respective areas of operation. Some of these competitors are large oil, natural gas and petrochemical companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas and NGLs than Enogex. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering, processing, transportation and storage systems that would create additional competition for the services Enogex provides to its customers. In addition, Enogex’s customers who are significant producers of natural gas may develop their own gathering, processing, transportation and storage systems in lieu of using Enogex’s. Enogex’s ability to renew or replace existing contracts with its customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of its competitors and customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on Enogex’s consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Gathering, processing, transporting and storing natural gas involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, Enogex’s operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Gathering, processing, transporting and storing natural gas involves many hazards and operational risks, including: • damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from third parties, including construction, farm and utility equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas or NGLs as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; and • fires and explosions. These and other risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of Enogex’s related operations. Enogex’s insurance is currently provided under the Company’s insurance programs. Enogex is not fully insured against all risks inherent to its business. Enogex is not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, which may include toxic tort claims. In addition, Enogex may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount desired at reasonable rates. Moreover, in some instances, significant claims by the Company may limit or eliminate the amount of insurance proceeds available to Enogex. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of the Company’s insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. 33 If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect Enogex’s operations and financial results. FINANCIAL RISKS Market performance, increased retirements, changes in retirement plan regulations and increasing costs associated with our defined benefit retirement plans, health care plans and other employee-related benefits may adversely affect our results of operations, consolidated financial position, or liquidity. We have defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans that cover substantially all of our employees. Assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions with respect to the defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans have a significant impact on our earnings and funding requirements. Based on our assumptions at December 31, 2008, we expect to continue to make future contributions to maintain required funding levels; however, as our plans have experienced adverse market returns on investments in 2008 due to the recent turmoil in the financial markets, this could cause our future contributions to rise substantially over historical levels. It is our practice to also make voluntary contributions to maintain more prudent funding levels than minimally required. These amounts are estimates and may change based on actual stock market performance, changes in interest rates and any changes in governmental regulations. On August 17, 2006, President Bush signed The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the “Pension Protection Act”) into law. The Pension Protection Act makes changes to important aspects of qualified retirement plans. Among other things, it alters the manner in which pension plan assets and liabilities are valued for purposes of calculating required pension contributions, introduces a new funding requirement for single- and multi-employer defined benefit pension plans, provides legal certainty on a prospective basis for cash balance and other hybrid plans and addresses contributions to defined contribution plans, deduction limits for contributions to retirement plans and investment advice provided to plan participants. Many of the changes enacted as part of the Pension Protection Act were required to be implemented as of the first plan year beginning in 2008. While the Company generally has until the last day of the first plan year beginning in 2009 to reflect those changes as part of the plan document, plans must nevertheless comply in operation as of each provision’s effective date. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of changes made to the Company’s plans in order to comply with the Pension Protection Act. All employees hired prior to February 1, 2000 participate in defined benefit and postretirement plans. If these employees retire when they become eligible for retirement over the next several years, or if our plan experiences adverse market returns on its investments, or if interest rates materially fall, our pension expense and contributions to the plans could rise substantially over historical levels. The timing and number of employees retiring and selecting the lump-sum payment option could result in pension settlement charges that could materially affect our results of operations if we are unable to recover these costs through our electric rates. In addition, assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions, including projected retirements, have a significant impact on our results of operations and consolidated financial position. Those assumptions are outside of our control. In addition to the costs of our retirement plans, the costs of providing health care benefits to our employees and retirees have increased substantially in recent years. We believe that our employee benefit costs, including costs related to health care plans for our employees and former employees, will continue to rise. The increasing costs and funding requirements with our defined benefit retirement plan, health care plans and other employee benefits may adversely affect our results of operations, consolidated financial position, or liquidity. We face certain human resource risks associated with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements. Workforce demographic issues challenge employers nationwide and are of particular concern to the electric utility and natural gas pipeline industry. The median age of utility and natural gas pipeline workers is significantly higher than the national average. Over the next three years, approximately 27 percent of our current employees will be eligible to retire with full pension benefits. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. 34 We are a holding company with our primary assets being investments in our subsidiaries. We are a holding company and thus our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. Substantially all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries. Consequently, our operating cash flow and our ability to pay our dividends and service our indebtedness depends upon the operating cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by them to us in the form of dividends. At December 31, 2008, the Company and its subsidiaries had outstanding indebtedness and other liabilities of approximately $4.6 billion. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our indebtedness or to make any funds available for that purpose, whether by dividends or otherwise. In addition, each subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to us depends on any statutory and contractual restrictions that may be applicable to such subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain minimum levels of working capital and other assets. Claims of creditors, including general creditors, of our subsidiaries on the assets of these subsidiaries will have priority over our claims generally (except to the extent that we may be a creditor of the subsidiaries and our claims are recognized) and claims by our shareowners. In addition, as discussed above, OG&E is regulated by state utility commissions in Oklahoma and Arkansas which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met. To the extent that the state commissions attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of OG&E to pay dividends to us, it could adversely affect our ability to continue to pay dividends. Certain provisions in our charter documents and rights plan have anti-takeover effects. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as the Oklahoma corporations statute, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company. Such provisions, including those regulating the nomination of directors, limiting who may call special stockholders’ meetings and eliminating stockholder action by written consent, together with the possible issuance of preferred stock of the Company without stockholder approval, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder’s best interest. Additionally, our rights plan may also delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company. Under the rights plan, each outstanding share of common stock has one half of a right attached that trades with the common stock. Absent prior action by our board of directors to redeem the rights or amend the rights plan, upon the consummation of certain acquisition transactions, the rights would entitle the holder thereof (other than the acquiror) to purchase shares of common stock at a discounted price in a manner designed to result in substantial dilution to the acquiror. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, discourage third party bidders from bidding for us and could significantly impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which may increase the risks created by our indebtedness. The terms of the indentures governing our debt securities do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries are in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in our revolving credit agreements and the indentures governing our debt securities, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness. If we or any of our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we and they now face may intensify. Any reductions in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs and the cost of maintaining certain contractual relationships or limit our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms. We cannot assure that any of our current ratings or the ratings of our subsidiaries’ will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. Our ability to access the commercial paper market could be adversely impacted by a credit ratings downgrade or major market disruption as experienced with the recent market turmoil. Pricing grids associated with the back-up lines of credit could cause annual fees and borrowing rates to increase if an adverse ratings impact occurs. The impact of any future downgrade would result in an increase in the cost of short-term borrowings but would not result in any defaults or accelerations as a result of the rating changes. Any future downgrade would also lead to higher long-term borrowing costs and, if below investment grade, would require us to post cash collateral or letters of credit. Also, any downgrade below investment grade at OERI could require us to issue additional guarantees to support some of OERI’s marketing operations. Any negative change in OERI’s creditworthiness could adversely affect Enogex’s ability to engage in hedging transactions or adversely affect the prices and terms upon which hedging transactions occur. 35 Enogex historically has conducted its hedging activities with OERI as its counterparty. OERI, in turn, has engaged in back-to-back hedging transactions with third parties. The willingness of those third parties to serve as counterparties on OERI’s hedging transactions depends on OERI’s creditworthiness. Any negative change in OERI’s creditworthiness could adversely affect OERI’s and Enogex’s ability to enter into hedging transactions, or the prices and terms upon which such transactions may be effected. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. We have revolving credit agreements for working capital, capital expenditures, including acquisitions, and other corporate purposes. The levels of our debt could have important consequences, including the following: • the ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or the financing may not be available on favorable terms; • a portion of cash flows will be required to make interest payments on the debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; and • our debt levels may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. We are exposed to the credit risk of our key customers and counterparties, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers and counterparties could adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to credit risks in our generation, retail distribution, pipeline and energy trading operations. Credit risk includes the risk that customers and counterparties that owe us money or energy will breach their obligations. If such parties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected, and we could incur losses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 36 