Risk Factors Investing in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information in this Annual Report, including the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Plan of Operation” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our Common Stock. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our Common Stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry As we have no operating history and we plan to operate in a new and unproven market, it is difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risk that we will not be successful is heightened. We have no operating history, which makes it difficult to effectively assess our future prospects or forecast our future results. Given our lack of any operating history the suspension of Momspot’s development plan, and the rapidly evolving markets in which we compete, it is very difficult, if not impossible, for you to predict our future operating results. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and challenges we encounter or may encounter in this developing and rapidly evolving market. These risks and challenges include our ability to, among other things: · attract users and generate user engagement; · develop strategic relationships with Platform Partners and Advertisers; · successfully expand our business; · develop a reliable, scalable, secure, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently handle increased usage; · convince Platform Partners and Advertisers of the benefits of our platform compared to alternative forms of advertising; · develop and deploy new features, products and services; · successfully compete with other companies, some of which have substantially greater resources and market power than us, that are currently in, or may in the future enter, our industry, or duplicate the features of our products and services; · attract, retain and motivate talented employees, particularly engineers, designers and product managers; · process, store, protect and use personal data in compliance with governmental regulations, contractual obligations and other obligations related to privacy and security; · continue to earn and preserve our users’ trust, including with respect to their private personal information; and · defend ourselves against litigation, regulatory, intellectual property, privacy or other claims. 12 If we fail to educate potential users and potential advertisers about the value of our product offerings, if the market for our platform does not develop as we expect or if we fail to address the needs of this market, our business will be harmed. We may not be able to successfully address these risks and challenges or others. Failure to adequately address these risks and challenges could harm our business and cause our operating results to suffer. We require additional capital to support our operations and the growth of our business, and we cannot be certain that this capital will be available on reasonable terms when required, or at all. We will need additional financing to operate and grow our business. Since the fourth quarter of the 2015 fiscal year Momspot’s development plan has been suspended pending receipt of incremental funding. As such, we need to raise additional capital to cover our budgeted operating and capital expenditures. At a minimum, we estimate we will need $375,000 in funding to recommence development of the network and $750,000 over the next two years in order to achieve profitability. The largest single line items in our budget are marketing (estimated between $115,000 and $150,000 per year) and development (estimated between $80,000 and $130,000 per year), which is essentially the cost of one to two full-time equivalent software engineers and/or programmers. In order to enable us to continue to sustain our operations until we consummate a financing, on September 3, 2015 each of our two principal stockholders loaned us an additional $25,000, or $50,000 in the aggregate, and extended the maturity dates of their existing loans to us to August 31, 2016, which should provide us with sufficient working capital for an additional 90 days. We have recently begun to explore new financing opportunities. Our ability to obtain additional financing, if and when required, will depend on investor and lender interest, our operating performance, the condition of the capital markets and other factors, and we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our Common Stock, and our existing stockholders may experience dilution. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support the operation or growth of our business could be significantly impaired and our operating results may be harmed. If we cannot continue as a going concern, you will lose your entire investment. In their report in connection with our financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph stating that because we have incurred net losses and have yet to establish profitable operations and other factors, there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a going concern, your entire investment may be worthless. Our ability to continue as a going concern will depend, in large part, on our ability to obtain additional financing and generate positive cash flow from operations, neither of which is certain. If we fail to develop a significant user base, or if user engagement or ad engagement on our platform do not materialize, our revenue, business and operating results may be harmed. The size of our user base and their level of engagement will be critical to our overall success, including our financial performance. Convincing potential new users of the value of our product offering is critical to increasing our user base and to the success of our business. We are unable to predict the size of our user base or its growth rate. If the Mommy Market does not perceive our website to be useful, reliable and trustworthy, we may not be able to attract users or increase the frequency of their engagement with our platform. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or sustain any level of user base or engagement. A number of consumer-oriented websites that achieved early popularity have since seen their user bases or levels of engagement decline, in some cases precipitously. There is no guarantee that we will not experience a similar erosion of our user base or engagement levels. A number of factors could potentially negatively affect user growth and engagement, including if: · users engage with other websites or platforms as an alternative to ours; · influential users, such as celebrities, athletes, journalists, media outlets and brands or certain age demographics conclude that a competing website or platform is more relevant; · we are unable to convince potential new users of the value and usefulness of our website; · there is a decrease in the perceived quality of the products and services available through our website; · we fail to introduce new and improved products or services or if we introduce new or improved products or services that are not favorably received or that negatively affect user engagement; · technical or other problems prevent us from delivering products or services in a rapid and reliable manner or otherwise affect the user experience; · we are unable to present users with products, services or content that is interesting, useful and relevant to them; · users believe that their experience is diminished as a result of the decisions we make with respect to the frequency, relevance and prominence of ads that we display; 13 · there are user concerns related to privacy and communication, safety, security or other factors; · we are unable to combat spam or other hostile or inappropriate usage on our platform; · there are adverse changes in the products or services available through our website that are mandated by, or that we elect to make, to address, legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements or consent decrees; · we fail to provide adequate customer service to users; or · we do not maintain our brand image or our reputation is damaged. If we are unable to attract a significant number of users or if the number of users begins to decline, this could result in our website being less attractive to potential new users as well as to Platform Partners and Advertisers, which would have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our revenue will depend on our ability to attract Platform Partners and Advertisers to advertise on our website. We anticipate that, at least initially, most, if not all of our revenue will be performance-based, determined by the frequency that users click through to a Platform Partner’s or Advertiser’s website or purchase a Platform Partner’s or Advertiser’s products or services. It is unlikely that we will have long-term commitments from Platform Partners or Advertisers. In addition, Platform Partners and Advertisers may view our business experimental and unproven, and we may need to devote additional time and resources to educate them about our business. Platform Partners may not want to partner with us if they feel that user engagement with their products and services is too infrequent. Advertisers will not continue to do business with us or will reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us if we do not deliver ads in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return relative to alternatives, including online, mobile and traditional advertising platforms. Thus, our revenue could be adversely affected by a number of other factors, including: · decreases in user engagement with our platform; · our inability to demonstrate the value of partnering with us or advertising on our platform; · if the products available through our website are not cost-effective or valuable or if we are unable to develop cost effective or valuable advertising services for different types of Advertisers; · if we are unable to convince Platform Partners and Advertisers to maintain a brand presence on our website; · changes we may make that change the frequency or relative prominence of ads displayed on our platform or that detrimentally impact revenue in the near term with the goal of achieving long term benefits; · our inability to increase Advertiser demand; · our inability to increase the relevance of ads shown to users; · our inability to help Advertisers effectively target ads, including as a result of the fact that we will not collect extensive private personally identifiable information directly from our users and that we may not have real-time geographic information for all of our users; · decreases in the cost per ad engagement; · loss of advertising market share to our competitors; · decreases in user access of our platform; · if we enter into revenue sharing arrangements or other partnerships with third parties that adversely affect our relationships with current advertisers; · the impact of new technologies that could block or obscure the display of our ads; · adverse legal developments relating to advertising or measurement tools related to the effectiveness of advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments, and developments in litigation; · adverse media reports or other negative publicity involving us or other companies in our industry; · our inability to create new products and services that sustain or increase the value of our advertising services to both our Advertisers and our users; · the impact of fraudulent clicks or spam on our platform and our users; · changes in the way our advertising is priced; and · the impact of macroeconomic conditions and conditions in the advertising industry in general. The occurrence of any of these or other factors could result in a reduction in demand for the products and services available through our website, which may reduce the prices we receive for our ads, either of which would negatively affect our revenue and operating results. 14 If we are unable to compete effectively for users, Platform Partners and Advertisers, our business and operating results could be harmed. Competition for users will be intense. We will compete against many companies to attract and engage users, including traditional “brick and mortar” retailers that serve the Mommy Market, and online shopping sites including a number of online shopping sites that target the same market segment that we target. Most of these competitors and potential competitors have greater financial resources and substantially larger user bases than we do, such as Amazon.com, ShopStyle, Google and Cafemom, which offer a variety of Internet and mobile device-based products, services and content. For example, users can search, compare and shop using both Amazon and Google. The online affiliate marketing websites that target the Mommy Market, including www.weespring.com and www.cricketscircle.com , tend to be smaller but nevertheless are already serving the market and, in some cases, are well-funded. As a result, our competitors may acquire and engage users at the expense of the growth or engagement of our user base, which would negatively affect our business. We may also compete against smaller companies, and companies based in foreign countries. We believe that our ability to compete effectively for users depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: · the popularity, usefulness, ease of use, performance and reliability of our website compared to those of our competitors; · the timing and market acceptance of product available on or through our website; · our ability, and the ability of our competitors, to develop new products and services and to enhance existing products and services; · the frequency and relative prominence of the ads displayed by us or our competitors; · our ability to establish and maintain relationships with Platform Partners and Advertisers; · changes mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some of which may have a disproportionate effect on us; · government action regulating competition; · our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees, particularly engineers, designers and product managers; · acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors; and · our reputation and the brand strength relative to our competitors. We also face significant competition for Advertisers as we will be competing against online and mobile businesses, including those referenced above, as well as traditional media outlets such as television, radio and print, for advertising budgets. In order to compete effectively for advertising spend, our budget for that form of revenue must be commensurate with those of our competitors, many of which are larger companies that offer more traditional and widely accepted advertising products. In addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product or service offerings and are able to leverage their relationships based on other products or services to gain additional share of advertising budgets. We believe that our ability to compete effectively for Advertisers depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: · the size and composition of our user base relative to those of our competitors; · our ad targeting capabilities relative those of our competitors; · the timing and market acceptance of our advertising services relative to those of our competitors; · our marketing and selling efforts relative to those of our competitors; · the pricing for products available through our website relative to the advertising products and services of our competitors; · the return our Advertisers receive from our advertising services, and those of our competitors; and · our reputation and the strength of our brand relative to our competitors. In recent years, there have been significant acquisitions and consolidation by and among our actual and potential competitors. We anticipate that this trend of consolidation will continue, and that it will present heightened competitive challenges for our business. Acquisitions by our competitors may adversely impact our existing relationships or ability to forge new relationships with Platform Partners and Advertisers. Consolidation may also enable our larger competitors to offer bundled or integrated products that feature alternatives to our platform. A reduction in the number of our strategic relationships or an increase in our competitors’ ability to offer bundled or integrated products that compete directly with us may cause our user growth, user engagement and ad engagement to decline and Advertisers to reduce their spend with us. If we are not able to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. 15 User growth and engagement depend upon effective interoperation with operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. Ultimately, we want our platform to be available across a variety of operating systems. Thus, the interoperability of our platform with popular devices, web browsers, and desktop and mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as Mac OS, Windows, Android, iOS, Chrome and Firefox will be critical to our future success. Any changes in such systems, devices or web browsers that degrade the functionality of our platform or that give preferential treatment to competitive products or services could adversely affect usage of our website. Further, if the number of operating systems for which we develop our platform expands, it will result in an increase in our operating expenses. In order to deliver high quality products and services, it is important that our platform work well with a range of operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. In addition, because we expect that a significant percentage of our users will access our platform through mobile devices, we will be particularly dependent on the interoperability of our platform with mobile devices and operating systems. We may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing or modifying our platform to operate effectively with these operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards. In the event that it is difficult for our users to access and use our website, particularly on their mobile devices, our user growth and engagement could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes them difficult to predict. Our quarterly operating results will likely fluctuate. Our operating results in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: · our ability to grow our user base and the frequency and level of user engagement; · our ability to attract and retain Platform Partners and Advertisers; · fluctuations in spending by our Advertisers, including as a result of seasonality and extraordinary news events or other factors; · the number of product or service engagements by users, whether with Platform Partners or Advertisers; · the pricing of ads and products and services available on or through our website; · the development and introduction of new products or services or changes in features of existing products or services; · the impact of competitors or competitive products and services; · our ability to maintain or increase revenue; · our ability to maintain or improve gross margins and operating margins; · increases in research and development, marketing and sales and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; · stock-based compensation expense; · costs related to the acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies or intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs; · system failures resulting in the inaccessibility of our website; · breaches of security or privacy, and the costs associated with remediating any such breaches; · adverse litigation judgments, settlements or other litigation-related costs, and the fees associated with investigating and defending claims; · changes in the legislative or regulatory environment, including with respect to security, privacy or enforcement by government regulators, including fines, orders or consent decrees; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in the proportion of our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies; · seasonal factors; · changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; and · changes in global business or macroeconomic conditions. We have incurred significant operating losses in the past, and we may not be able to achieve or subsequently maintain profitability. Since emerging from bankruptcy in July 2013, we have incurred significant operating losses. As of June 30, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1,555,000. We believe that our future revenue growth will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract users, Platform Partners and Advertisers; increase user engagement and ad engagement; increase our brand awareness; compete effectively; maximize our sales efforts; demonstrate a positive return on investment for Advertisers; and successfully develop new products and services. Accordingly, you should not rely on the revenue growth of any quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to expend substantial financial resources on: 16 · our technology infrastructure; · research and development for our products and services; · sales and marketing; · domestic and international expansion efforts; · attracting and retaining talented employees; · strategic opportunities, including commercial relationships and acquisitions; and · general administration, including personnel costs and legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. If we are unable to generate adequate revenue growth and to manage our expenses, we may continue to incur significant losses in the future and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to our website by our users. If we or our users experience disruptions in Internet service or if Internet service providers are able to block, degrade or charge for access to our website, we could incur additional expenses and the loss of users. We depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet seamlessly and at relatively low cost. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, government-owned service providers, device manufacturers and operating system providers, any of whom could take actions that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of user access to our website, which would, in turn, negatively impact our business. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including laws or practices limiting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for, or the use of, our website, increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our operating results. We also rely on other companies to maintain reliable network systems that provide adequate speed, data capacity and security to us and our users. As the Internet continues to experience growth in the number of users, frequency of use and amount of data transmitted, the Internet infrastructure that we and our users rely on may be unable to support the demands placed upon it. The failure of the Internet infrastructure that we or our users rely on, even for a short period of time, could undermine our operations and harm our operating results. In order to remain competitive and continue to attract users, Platform Partners and Advertisers, we will need to develop new products and services. If we fail to so, we may not be able to generate revenue or increase our revenue base. Our ability to increase the size and engagement of our user base, attract advertisers and generate revenue will depend in part on our ability to create successful new products and services, both independently and in conjunction with third parties. In the future, we may invest in new products, services and initiatives to generate revenue, but there is no guarantee these approaches will be successful. We may not be successful in future efforts to generate revenue from our new products or services. If our strategic initiatives do not enhance our ability to monetize our existing products and services or enable us to develop new approaches to monetization, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue or recover any associated development costs and our operating results could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to improve or enhance our existing platform or develop or offer new products and services. Spam could diminish the user experience on our platform, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. “Spam” refers to a range of abusive activities that are prohibited by our terms of service and is generally defined as unsolicited, repeated actions that negatively impact other users with the general goal of drawing user attention to a given account, site, product or idea, misleading links (e.g., to malware or click-jacking pages) or other false or misleading content, adding users to lists and sending invitations. Our terms of service also prohibit the creation of serial or bulk accounts, both manually or using automation, for disruptive or abusive purposes. Spam detracts from the user experience. Accordingly, we will need to devote considerable resources to combat spam on our platform. Our actions to combat spam require the diversion of significant time and focus of our engineering team from improving our products and services. If spam increases on our platform, it could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant content or reduce user growth and user engagement and result in continuing operational cost to us. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and operating results could be harmed. In order to compete successfully, we must make substantial investments to expand our operations, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative capabilities. We will face significant competition for employees, particularly engineers, designers and product managers, from other Internet and high-growth companies, which include both publicly-traded and privately-held companies, and we may not be able to hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. To attract highly skilled personnel, we will need to offer highly competitive compensation packages. As we grow, we run the risk of over-hiring, over-compensating our employees and over-expanding our operating infrastructure, and we must also face the challenges of integrating, developing and motivating a rapidly growing employee base. In addition, we may not be able to innovate or execute as quickly as a smaller, more efficient organization. If we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs and successfully integrate our new hires, our efficiency and ability to meet our operational and financial goals and our employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 17 In addition, as we grow, we may need to significantly expand our operating lease commitments. Maintaining our platform and website will be costly and we expect our expenses to increase in the future as we broaden our user base and increase user engagement, as the number of users who visit our website increase and as we develop and implement new features, products and services that require more infrastructure. In addition, we expect our operating expenses, such as our research, development, sales and marketing expenses, will grow rapidly as our business expands. Rapid growth could also strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our users, develop and improve our operational, financial, and legal and management controls, and enhance our reporting systems and procedures. As a public company we will incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses that we would not incur as a private company. Our expenses may grow faster than our revenue, and our expenses may be greater than we anticipate. Managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We will need to hire highly skilled personnel to grow and operate our business, and if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate our personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our future success will depend upon our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management, engineers, designers and product managers. Our ability to execute efficiently depends on contributions from our employees, in particular our senior management team. We do not have employment agreements with any of our existing employees, and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our existing employees. In addition, from time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team that may be disruptive to our business. If our senior management team, including any new hires which we may make, fails to work together effectively and to execute our plans and strategies on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. Our growth strategy also depends on our ability to attract, hire and retain highly skilled personnel. Identifying, recruiting, training and integrating qualified individuals will require significant time, expense and attention. In addition to hiring new employees, we must continue to focus on retaining our best employees. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, particularly in the New York market where we are based. We may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees and we may never realize returns on these investments. If we are not able to effectively add and retain employees, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely impacted, and our business will be harmed. Our business and operating results may be harmed by a disruption in our service, or by our failure to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and infrastructure. As an Internet company, we will inevitably experience service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, hardware failure, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of people accessing our products and services simultaneously, computer viruses and denial of service or fraud or security attacks. We will rely on third-party hosting services, who may or may not have their own data centers. Accordingly, in the event of a significant issue at the data center supporting most of our network traffic, our website may become inaccessible to the public or the public may experience difficulties accessing our website. Any disruption or failure in our infrastructure could hinder our ability to handle existing or increased traffic on our platform, which could significantly harm our business. As the number of users increases and as user engagement on our website increases, we may be required to expand and adapt our technology and infrastructure to continue to reliably service the increased traffic to and content on our website. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the performance of our website, especially during peak usage times, as our product offerings become more complex and user traffic increases. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. If our users are unable to access Momspot or we are not able to make information available rapidly on Momspot, users may seek other channels to obtain the information, and may not return to Momspot or use Momspot as often in the future, or at all. This would negatively impact our ability to attract users and advertisers and increase engagement of our users. We expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure. To the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and infrastructure to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and operating results may be harmed. 18 If we are unable to maintain and promote our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that maintaining and promoting our brand is critical to expanding our base of users and Advertisers. Maintaining and promoting our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide useful, reliable and innovative website, which we may not do successfully. We may introduce new features, products, services or terms of service that users, Platform Partners or Advertisers do not like, which may negatively affect our brand. Additionally, the actions of Platform Partners may affect our brand if users do not have a positive experience using third-party applications or websites integrated with Momspot or that make use of Momspot content. Our brand may also be negatively affected by the actions of users that are hostile or inappropriate to other people, by users impersonating other people, by users identified as spam, by users introducing excessive amounts of spam on our platform or by third parties obtaining control over users’ accounts. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not achieve the desired goals. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Negative publicity could adversely affect our business and operating results. Negative publicity about our company, including about the quality and reliability of our platform, changes to our platform, privacy and security practices, litigation, regulatory activity, the actions of our users or user experience with our platform, even if inaccurate, could adversely affect our reputation and the confidence in and the use of our platform. Such negative publicity could also have an adverse effect on the size, engagement and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our future performance depends in part on support from Platform Partners and Advertisers. We believe user engagement with our website will depend, in large part, on the availability of products and services from our Platform Partners and, to a lesser extent, from our Advertisers. The availability of products and services depends on Platform Partners’ perceptions and analysis of the relative benefits of partnering with us. If Platform Partners focus their efforts on other platforms, business may suffer. We cannot assure you that our Platform Partners will continue to offer products and services through our website. If Platform Partners cease to offer products and services through our website, user engagement may decline. In addition, we expect to generate revenue from licensing our historical and real-time data to third parties. If any of these relationships are terminated or not renewed, or if we are unable to enter into similar relationships in the future, our operating results could be adversely affected. We will focus on product innovation and user engagement rather than short-term operating results. We intend to focus on improving the user experience with our platform and on developing new and improved products and services for our platform. We will prioritize innovation and the user experience on our platform over short-term operating results. We anticipate that some of our decisions may reduce our short-term operating results although they may be consistent with our goals to improve the user experience and performance for Platform Partners and Advertisers and to improve our operating results over the long term. These decisions may not be consistent with the short-term expectations of investors and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and user engagement, our relationships with Platform Partners and Advertisers, and our business and operating results could be harmed. In addition, our focus on the user experience may negatively impact our relationships with our existing or prospective Platform Partners and/or Advertisers. This could result in a loss of Platform Partners and/or Advertisers, which could harm our revenue and operating results. Our platform may contain undetected software errors, which could harm our business and operating results. Our platform will incorporate complex software and we will encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. Our software may contain errors, bugs or vulnerabilities. Some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the product or service has been released. Any errors, bugs or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after release could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, loss of Platform Partners, loss of Advertisers or advertising revenue, or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. User trust regarding privacy is important to the growth of users and the increase in user engagement on our platform, and privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users and advertisers from using Momspot. Privacy and the integrity of personal information is a major issue for Internet users. Any publicity relating to the disclosure and/or unauthorized use of personal information or other privacy-related matters of our users, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation, cause us to lose users and advertisers, and adversely affect our operating results. While our goal is to comply with applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies and other obligations we may have with respect to privacy and data protection, the failure or perceived failure to comply may result in negative publicity and damage to our reputation and brand, each of which could cause us to lose users, Platform Partners or Advertisers, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the unauthorized access to or release of personal information or data relating to our users, Platform Partners or Advertisers could significantly limit user engagement, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. We expect to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of products and services we offer and increase the size of our user base. 19 If our security measures are breached, or if our website is subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our website, our website may be perceived as not being secure, users may curtail or stop using our website and our business and operating results could be harmed. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of personal information and data relating to users, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and potential liability. We may experience cyber-attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis, and as a result, unauthorized parties may obtain access to our data or that of our users. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees and/or users to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our users’ data or accounts, or may otherwise obtain access to such data or accounts. Since our users, may establish and maintain online identities on our website, use of these identities may damage their reputations and brands as well as ours. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in the security of our website that could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed; we could lose users, and, as a result, Platform Partners and Advertisers; and we may also incur significant legal and financial exposure, including legal claims and regulatory fines and penalties. Any of these actions could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. We may face lawsuits or incur liability as a result of content published or made available on our website. We may face claims relating to products and services that are made available on or through our website. In particular, the nature of our business exposes us to claims related to intellectual property rights and personal injury torts. The law relating to the liability of providers of online products or services for activities of their users remains somewhat unsettled, both within the United States and internationally. In addition, the public nature of communications on our network exposes us to risks arising from the creation of impersonation accounts intended to be attributed to our users, Platform Partners or Advertisers. We could incur significant costs investigating and defending these claims. If we incur costs or liability as a result of these events occurring, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We have limited intellectual property rights. However, we believe the intellectual property rights we do have are valuable, and if we don’t protect them effectively the value of our products, services and brand could be adversely affected. At the present time, our only intellectual property rights include our name - Momspot - and our domain name - www.momspot.com. These rights are important as, in our view, they provide some protection against copycats. In order to protect these rights, we rely on trademark, trade dress, domain name and copyright laws. Effective protection of trademarks and domain names is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and registration costs as well as the cost of defending and enforcing those rights. We may be required to protect our rights in an increasing number of countries, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available. We may also rely on non-patented proprietary information and technology, such as trade secrets, confidential information, know-how and technical information. To protect this type of intellectual property we may rely on a combination of trade secret laws as well as confidentiality and license agreements with employees, consultants and other third parties. Even if we enter into agreements with employees and third parties that place restrictions on the use and disclosure of this intellectual property, these agreements may be breached or this intellectual property may otherwise be disclosed or become known to our competitors, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage resulting from this intellectual property. Significant impairments of our intellectual property rights and limitations on our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against others could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights are costly and time consuming. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights as well as our products, services and technologies. For example, we may fail to obtain effective intellectual property protection, or effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are available. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our existing intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective, and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, which could result in them being narrowed in scope or declared invalid or unenforceable. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to protect against others offering products or services that are substantially similar to ours and compete with our business. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. 20 We may, in the future, become party to intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming to defend, and, if resolved adversely, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. Unlike most other Internet and technology companies, we do not own or possess significant intellectual property rights. In order to build our website, we are relying on existing technologies for which we obtained licenses to the extent necessary. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that we will not be a targeted for claims of violating the intellectual property rights of others. Many Internet and technology companies that own large portfolios of patents, trademarks, trade names and copyrights frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. Many of these companies are substantially larger than we are and have significantly greater financial and human resources than we do, which could make us a target for litigation as we may not be able to assert counterclaims against parties that sue us for patent or other intellectual property infringement. In addition, various “non-practicing entities” that own patents and other intellectual property rights often attempt to aggressively assert claims in order to extract value from technology companies. Further, from time to time we may introduce new products and services, including in areas where we currently do not have an offering, which could increase our exposure to patent and other intellectual property claims from competitors and non-practicing entities. In addition, some of our agreements with Advertisers, Platform Partners and Data Partners may require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property claims against them, which could require us to incur considerable costs in defending such claims, and may require us to pay significant damages in the event of an adverse ruling. Advertisers, Platform Partners and Data Partners may also discontinue use of our products, services and technologies as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenue and adversely impact our business. There may be intellectual property or other rights held by others, including issued or pending patents, that cover significant aspects of our products and services, and we cannot be sure that we are not infringing or violating, and have not infringed or violated, any third-party intellectual property rights or that we will not be held to have done so or be accused of doing so in the future. Any claim or litigation alleging that we have infringed or otherwise violated intellectual property or other rights of third parties, with or without merit, and whether or not settled out of court or determined in our favor, could be time-consuming and costly to address and resolve, and could divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel. The outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. In addition, plaintiffs may seek, and we may become subject to, preliminary or provisional rulings in the course of any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring us to cease some or all of our operations. We may decide to settle such lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. Similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. The terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease some or all of our operations or pay substantial amounts to the other party. In addition, we may have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. If we are required, or choose, to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, such arrangements may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. As a result, we may also be required to develop or procure alternative non-infringing technology or discontinue use of the technology. The development or procurement of alternative non-infringing technology could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. An unfavorable resolution of the disputes and litigation referred to above could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We will rely, in part, on Internet search engines and application marketplaces to drive traffic to our platform, and if we fail to appear high up in the search results or rankings, traffic to our platform could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We will depend, in part, on Internet search engines, such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!, to drive traffic to our website. For example, when a user types an inquiry into a search engine, we rely on a high organic search result ranking of our webpages in these search results to refer the user to our website. However, our ability to maintain high organic search result rankings is not within our control. Our competitors’ search engine optimization, or SEO, efforts may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than ours, or Internet search engines could revise their methodologies in a way that would adversely affect our search result rankings. For example, Google has integrated its social networking offerings, including Google+, with some of its products, including search, which has negatively impacted the organic search ranking of our webpages. If Internet search engines modify their search algorithms in ways that are detrimental to us, or if our competitors’ SEO efforts are more successful than ours, the growth in our user base could slow. Based on our knowledge of how search engines work and experiences of other websites, we expect our website to also experience fluctuations in search result rankings, which could adversely impact the number of users visiting our website. Any reduction in the number of users directed to our mobile applications or website through application marketplaces and search engines could harm our business and operating results. In the future, should we develop a mobile application for momspot.com, we will rely on application marketplaces, such as Apple’s App Store and Google’s Play, to drive downloads of our mobile applications. In the future, Apple, Google or other operators of application marketplaces may make changes to their marketplaces which make access to our platform more difficult. 21 More people are using devices other than personal computers to access the Internet and new platforms to produce and consume content. We need to develop and promote the adoption of our mobile applications, and our business and operating results may be harmed if we are unable to do so. The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, handheld computers such as net books and tablets, video game consoles, and television set-top devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. Our business and operating results may be harmed if we fail to develop mobile applications or users do not install our mobile application when they change or upgrade their mobile device. At the present time, we do not have the capital to develop a mobile application, which could be detrimental to our competitive position. In addition, as new devices and platforms are continually being released, users may consume content in a manner that is more difficult to monetize. It is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services that are compatible with new devices or platforms. If we are unable to develop products and services that are compatible with new devices and platforms, or if we are unable to drive continued adoption of our mobile applications, our business and operating results may be harmed. Natural disasters, including earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and man-made problems, such as acts of terrorism could have a material adverse impact on our operations. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood or significant power outage, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In October 2012, Super Storm Sandy caused major damage along the Atlantic Coast, including New York City. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions to our services. In addition, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business. All of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if our disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. Given the start-up nature of our business, we do not yet have a disaster recovery plan nor do we carry business interruption insurance to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to our business, which may result from interruptions in our ability to provide our products and services. We have determined that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting are currently not effective. The lack of effective internal controls could materially adversely affect our financial condition and ability to carry out our business plan . Our management team for financial reporting, specifically, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. At June 30, 2015, because of the inability to sufficiently test the effectiveness of remediated internal controls, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. At June 30, 2015, we concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable assurance level because of the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that continued to exist. Until we are able to test the operating effectiveness of remediated internal controls and ensure the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, any material weaknesses may materially adversely affect our ability to report accurately our financial condition and results of operations in the future in a timely and reliable manner. In addition, although we continually review and evaluate internal control systems to allow management to report on the sufficiency of our internal controls, we cannot assure you that we will not discover additional weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Any such additional weakness or failure to remediate the existing weakness could materially adversely affect our financial condition or ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and the requirements of the Company’s various financing agreements. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law contain or will contain provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws will include provisions: · authorizing “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our Common Stock; · limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; · limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; · requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and · controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings. 22 These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents certain stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding Common Stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding Common Stock not held by such 15% or greater stockholder. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our Common Stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our Common Stock. While shares of our Common Stock are quoted on the OTC Pink, an active trading market for our Common Stock may never develop or be sustained. Our Common Stock is quoted on the OTC Pink, an interdealer electronic quotation system operated by OTC Markets Group, Inc. under the symbol “ATRN”. However, we cannot assure you that an active trading market for our Common Stock will develop on the OTC Pink or elsewhere, or, if developed, that any market will be sustained. An illiquid trading market could make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares and could also adversely impact the market price. The market price of our Common Stock may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Since there has not been a public offering for our stock, we are unable to predict the price at which shares of our Common Stock will trade or the volume that will trade. In addition, the market price of our Common Stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. The market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate substantially and will depend on a number of factors many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our Common Stock since you might be unable to sell your shares at or above the price you pay for the shares. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our Common Stock include the following: · price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; · volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks; · changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; · sales of shares of our Common Stock by us or our stockholders; · failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; · the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services; · the public’s reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; · rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; · actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results; · actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors’ businesses or the competitive landscape generally; · litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; · developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; · announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; · new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; · any significant change in our management; and · general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 23 In making your investment decision, you should understand that we have not authorized any other party to provide you with information concerning us or our business. You should carefully evaluate all of the information in this annual report. We have not authorized any other party to provide you with information concerning us or our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our Common Stock adversely, the price of our Common Stock and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Common Stock will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our Common Stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our Common Stock would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the price of our Common Stock or trading volume to decline. At the present time, we are not aware of any analysts who plan to follow our stock. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their Common Stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our Common Stock. We are subject to the “penny stock” rules, which could adversely affect the trading volume and market price of our shares. Trades of our Common Stock are subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the SEC under the Exchange Act, which imposes certain requirements on broker/dealers who sell securities subject to the rules to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by the rules, broker/dealers must make a special suitability determination for purchasers of the securities and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale. The SEC also has other rules that regulate broker/dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks.” Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities listed on a national securities exchange, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in that security is provided by the exchange or system). The penny stock rules require a broker/dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker/dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker/dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations and the broker/dealer and salesperson compensation information must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. These disclosure requirements have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity for our Common Stock. As a result of the foregoing, investors may find it difficult to sell their shares. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 