Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves many risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a discussion that highlights some of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, operations or financial results. We have incurred significant losses in the past, and if we are unable to continue to increase our revenues while controlling our costs and operating expenses, we may be unable to sustain our profitability. We have incurred significant losses since our inception in 1995 and we may incur losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $2.6 million, $6.4 million and $36.8 million for the years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. With the exception of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 when we were profitable due to a one time benefit of $1.3 million from the resolution of vendor liabilities, the third and fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2006 we have not achieved profitability on a quarterly or annual basis since inception. As of June 30, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $225.1 million. We will need to continue to increase our revenues while controlling costs and operating expenses to sustain profitability. Our revenues may not grow sufficiently in future quarters to sustain profitability. We depend upon a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and any decrease in revenues from, or loss of, these customers without a corresponding increase in revenues from other customers would harm our operating results. We depend upon a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our top five customers, although not the same five customers for each period, together accounted for 52%, 63% and 69% of our revenues in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect that the majority of our revenues will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, although potentially not the same customers period to period. Our revenues generated from these customers, individually or in the aggregate, may not reach or exceed historic levels in any future period. We may not be the sole source of supply to our customers, and they may choose to purchase products from other vendors. Furthermore, the businesses of some of our existing customers are currently experiencing slow growth following a protracted downturn, which is resulting, in some instances, in significantly decreased sales to these customers and harming our results of operations. Loss or cancellations of orders from, or any further downturn in the business of, any of our customers without an increase in sales from other customers could harm our business. Our dependence on a small number of customers may increase if the fiber optic components and subsystems industry and our other target markets continue to consolidate. The optical networking component industry is experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. The optical networking component industry is experiencing declining average selling prices (“ASPs”) as a result of increasing competition and declining market demand. We anticipate that such ASPs will continue to decrease in the future in response to product and new technology introductions by competitors, price pressures from significant customers and greater manufacturing efficiencies achieved through increased automation in the manufacturing process. These declining ASPs have contributed and may continue to contribute to a decline in our gross margins, which could harm our results of operations. Because none of our customers are obligated to purchase our products, they may cancel or defer their purchases at any time and on short notice, which could harm our operating results. We are substantially dependent on orders we receive and fill on a short-term basis. We do not have contracts with our customers that provide any assurance of future sales, and sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, often with extremely short lead times. Accordingly, our customers: • may stop purchasing our products or defer their purchases at any time without penalty; • are free to purchase products from our competitors; 12 Table of Contents • are not required to make minimum purchases; and • may cancel orders that they place with us. As a result, we cannot rely on orders in backlog as a reliable and consistent source of future revenue. Sales to any single customer may and do vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance. In addition, our customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from quarter to quarter. This means that customers who account for a significant portion of our revenues in one quarter may not and often do not place orders at the same level as the current quarter in the succeeding quarter, which makes it difficult to forecast our revenues in future periods. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenue, and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner in response to further revenue shortfalls. This can result in significant quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and, therefore, may vary from public market analysts’ or investors’ expectations, which could cause our stock price to drop. It is difficult to forecast our revenues accurately. Moreover, our revenues, gross margins, expenses and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The factors, many of which are more fully discussed in the other risk factors below, that are likely to cause these variations include, among others: • fluctuations in demand for, and sales of, our products; • changes in customer, geographic or product mix and the average selling prices of our products; • impact on our sales and margins as a result of our customers continued migration to contract manufacturers and the extent to which we engage in contract manufacturing activities; • the availability of raw materials used in our products, increases in the price of these raw materials or to the extent a greater degree of the raw material content of our product is from third parties; • economic conditions specific to the communications and related industries and the development and size of the markets for our products; • our inability to cut costs quickly in the event of market or demand downturns, due to the fact that a high percentage of our expenses, including those related to manufacturing, engineering, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative functions, is fixed in the short term; • cancellations or delays of orders or shipment rescheduling by our customers; • the lingering effects of the recent economic downturn and resulting uncertainty of the fiber optic industry; • the ability of our manufacturing operations in China to timely produce and deliver products in the quantity and of the quality our customers require; • our ability to successfully improve our manufacturing capabilities and achieve acceptable production yields in our facilities in China; • the tendency of communications equipment suppliers to sporadically place large orders with short lead times; • competitive factors in the fiber optic components and subsystems market, including introductions of new products, new technologies and product enhancements by competitors, consolidation of competitors, customers and service provider end users and pricing pressures; • our ability to develop, introduce, manufacture and ship new and enhanced optical networking products in a timely manner and in production quantities without defects or other quality issues; 13 Table of Contents • with respect to new products, a mismatching of research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses that are incurred in one quarter with revenues that are not recognized, if at all, until a subsequent quarter when the new products are introduced and commercially accepted; and • costs associated with, and the outcomes of, any intellectual property or other litigation to which we are, or may become, a party. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Moreover, if we experience difficulties in any of these areas, our operating results could be significantly and adversely affected and our stock price could decline. Also, it is possible that in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to fall. If we fail to effectively manage our manufacturing capability, produce products that meet our customers’ quality requirements and achieve acceptable production yields in China, we may not be able to deliver sufficient quantities of products that meet all of our customers’ order requirements in a timely manner, which would harm our operating results. We manufacture substantially all of our products in our facilities in Zhuhai and Shanghai, China. The quality of our products and our ability to ship products on a timely basis may suffer if we cannot effectively maintain the necessary expertise and resources to effectively manage our manufacturing activities in China. We have in the past received unexpectedly large numbers of product returns due to manufacturing defects in our products. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2005, we experienced greater than anticipated manufacturing defects in our subsystem products and, as a result, increased our warranty reserves. We have identified and believe we have remedied these problems. However, if we cannot prevent these problems from reoccurring, we may lose customers and revenue, and our operating results will be severely harmed. Because manufacturing our products involves complex and precise processes and the majority of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed, manufacturing yields are critical to our results of operations. Factors that affect our manufacturing yields include the quality of raw materials used to make our products, the quality of workmanship and our manufacturing processes. Our or our suppliers’ inadvertent use of defective materials could significantly reduce our manufacturing yields. Furthermore, because of the large labor component in, and complexity of, our manufacturing processes, quality of workmanship is critical to achieving acceptable yields. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire and train a sufficient number of qualified personnel to produce our products cost-effectively with the quality and in the quantities required by our customers. Changes in our manufacturing processes or those of our suppliers could also impact our yields. In some cases, existing manufacturing techniques, which involve substantial manual labor, may not allow us to meet our manufacturing yield goals cost-effectively so that we maintain acceptable gross margins while meeting the cost targets of our customers. We will need to develop new manufacturing processes and techniques that will involve higher levels of automation in order to increase our gross margins and help achieve the targeted cost levels of our customers. We may not achieve manufacturing cost levels that will allow us to achieve acceptable gross margins or fully satisfy customer demands. Additionally, our competitors are automating their manufacturing processes. If we are unable to achieve higher levels of automation and our competitors are successful, it will harm our gross margins. Additional risks associated with managing our manufacturing processes and capability in China include: • our ability to procure the necessary raw materials and equipment on a timely basis; • a potential lack of availability of qualified management and manufacturing personnel; • our ability to maintain quality; • our ability to effectively manage headcount, particularly if we undertake to expand our manufacturing operations; and 14 Table of Contents • our ability to quickly and efficiently implement an adequate set of financial controls to effectively track and control inventory levels and inventory mix and to accurately predict inventory requirements. Communications equipment suppliers typically require that their vendors commit in advance to provide specified quantities of products over a given period of time. We may not be able to pursue many large orders from these suppliers if we do not have sufficient manufacturing capabilities to enable us to commit to provide them with their specified quantities of products. If we are unable to commit to deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy a customer’s anticipated needs, we likely will lose the order and the opportunity for significant sales to that customer for a lengthy period of time. Furthermore, if we fail to fulfill orders to which we have committed, we will lose revenue opportunities and our customer relationships may be harmed. Our products may have defects that are not detected until full deployment of a customer’s equipment, which could result in a loss of customers, damage to our reputation and substantial costs. Our products are deployed in large and complex optical networks and must be compatible with other system components. Our products can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in these networks for long periods of time. Our customers may discover errors, defects or incompatibilities in our products after they have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. Our products may also have errors, defects or incompatibilities that are not found until after a system upgrade is installed. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2005, we experienced greater than anticipated defects in our subsystem products and, as a result, increased our warranty reserves. Errors, defects, incompatibilities or other problems with our products could result in: • loss of customers; • loss of or delay in revenues; • loss of market share; • damage to our brand and reputation; • inability to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development resources; • increased service and warranty costs; • legal actions by our customers; and • increased insurance costs. If any of these occur, our operating results could be harmed. We depend on the growth and success of the communications industry, which is subject to severe fluctuations in economic activity and is also experiencing consolidation and realignment, as well as a trend towards outsourced manufacturing. We depend on the continued growth and success of the communications industry, which depends, in part, on the continuing growth of the Internet, wireless, optical and cable services as a widely-used medium for commerce and communication and the continuing demand for increased bandwidth over communications networks. As a result of the effects of the severe downturn in the optical and communications industry following the year 2000, our ability to acquire new customers or to obtain additional orders from existing customers has been impeded. Although we have noticed a general increase in spending activity in the communications industry over the past several quarters, we cannot assure you that this spending activity will continue at its current rate or at all, or that we will benefit from this spending activity. Furthermore, the rate at which communications service providers and other fiber optic network users have built new fiber optic networks or installed new systems in their existing fiber optic networks has fluctuated in the past and these fluctuations may continue in the future. These fluctuations may result in reduced demand from historical rates for new or upgraded fiber optic systems that utilize our products and, therefore, may result in reduced demand for our products. 15 Table of Contents The communications industry is also experiencing rapid consolidation and realignment, as industry participants seek to capitalize on the rapidly changing competitive landscape developing around the Internet and new communications technologies such as fiber optic and wireless communications networks. As the communications industry consolidates and realigns to accommodate technological and other developments, our customers and service provider end users may consolidate or align with other entities in a manner that may delay orders and harms our business. Our customers’ continued outsourcing might result in their utilizing large well-established contract manufacturers to provide final system assembly, rather than utilizing us for final system assembly. We may therefore be required to provide lower level components to these contractor manufacturers rather than final system assembly to our current customers, potentially resulting in reduced revenues and lower gross margins and profits. Furthermore, these contract manufacturers may seek other source of components, which could harm our operating results. Additionally, to remain competitive we may need to provide a contract manufacturing service, which could harm our gross margins. Because we depend on third parties to supply some of our raw materials and equipment, we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials and equipment, or these materials may become unavailable due to technological changes, which could limit our ability to fill customer orders and harm our operating results. Difficulties in obtaining raw materials in the future may delay or limit our product shipments, which could result in lost orders, increase our costs, reduce our control over quality and delivery schedules and require us to redesign our products. We depend on third parties to supply the raw materials and equipment we use to manufacture our products. To be competitive, we must obtain from our suppliers, on a timely basis, sufficient quantities of raw materials at acceptable prices. We obtain most of our critical raw materials from a single or limited number of suppliers and generally do not have long-term supply contracts with them. As a result, our suppliers could terminate the supply of a particular material at any time without penalty. Due to the effects of the severe downturn in the optical and communications industries, manufacturers and vendors that we rely upon for raw materials may scale back their operations or cease to do business entirely as a result of financial hardship or other reasons. In addition, our suppliers could terminate the supply of a particular material due to technological changes, which would require us to redesign our products, identify and qualify acceptable replacement suppliers. However, we cannot be certain that we could obtain qualifications for such replacements from our customers. Furthermore, some of our suppliers are competitors who may chose not to supply raw materials to us in the future, or who may sell their capability to parties that may be adverse to our goals. In addition, some of the equipment we use is relatively complex and, in periods of high market demand, the lead times from order to delivery of this equipment could be as long as six months. To the extent a greater degree of the raw material content of our product is from third parties, which may be necessary to provide our customers with the latest technology, our financial results may be negatively impacted. We compete in a highly competitive industry, and if we are unable to compete successfully or develop new products and product enhancements that achieve market acceptance, our revenues could decline, which would harm our operating results. The market for fiber optic components and subsystems is intensely competitive. We believe that our principal competitors are the major manufacturers of optical components and subsystems, including vendors selling to third parties and business divisions within communications equipment suppliers. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, purchasing, manufacturing and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and to changes in customer requirements, to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, or to deliver competitive products at lower prices. Competitors in any portion of our business may also rapidly become competitors in other portions of our business. In addition, our industry has recently experienced significant consolidation, and we anticipate that further consolidation will occur. This consolidation has further increased competition. Several of our existing and potential customers are also current and potential competitors of ours. These companies may develop or acquire additional competitive products or technologies in the future and thereby reduce 16 Table of Contents or cease their purchases from us. In light of the consolidation in the optical networking industry, we also believe that the size of the optical component and subsystem suppliers will become increasingly important to our current and potential customers in the future. Our current and potential suppliers may also consolidate with our competitors and thereby reduce or cease providing materials and equipment to us. Also, we expect to pursue optical contract manufacturing opportunities in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors, and the competitive pressures we face may result in lower prices for our products, loss of market share, the unavailability of materials and equipment used in our products, or reduced gross margins, any of which could harm our business. The communications industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. As a result, the introduction of new products incorporating new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could make our existing products obsolete. For example, new technologies are being developed in the design of wavelength division multiplexers that compete with the thin film filters that we incorporate in our products. These technologies include arrayed waveguide grating and planar lightwave circuits. Additionally, a new technology is being developed in the design of equalization and switching, known as microelectro-mechanical systems, which will compete with the bulk micro-optics that we incorporate into our product. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate market needs and to develop products that address those needs. Our failure to predict market needs accurately or to develop or obtain through acquisition new products or product enhancements in a timely manner will harm market acceptance and sales of our products. In this regard, we are currently developing bandwidth creation products as well as bandwidth management products. If the development of these products or any other future products takes longer than we anticipate, or if we are unable to develop and introduce these products to market, our revenues could suffer and we may not gain market share. Even if we are able to develop and commercially introduce these new products, the new products may not achieve widespread market acceptance. Furthermore, we have implemented, and may continue to implement in the future, significant cost-cutting measures such as reductions in our workforce, including reductions in research and development and manufacturing personnel, that may weaken our research and development efforts or cause us to have difficulty responding to sudden increases in customer orders. In addition, we recently expanded our operations to include optical manufacturing services. We cannot, however, assure you that we will be able to successfully manage our manufacturing capabilities to produce quality products in a cost-effective manner or gain market acceptance with respect to any optical manufacturing service offerings. In addition, because profit margins with respect to optical contract manufacturing services may be smaller than the margins applicable to our current and past product offerings, our gross margins may decline and our financial results may be harmed as a result of our provision of such services. Also, to the extent a greater degree of the raw material content of our product is from third parties, which may be necessary to provide our customers with the latest technology, our financial results may be negatively impacted. If our liability for U.S. and foreign taxes is greater than we have anticipated and reserved for, our operating results may suffer. We are subject to tax in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. We believe that we have adequately estimated and reserved for our tax liability. However, our business operations, including our transfer pricing for transactions among our various business entities operating in different tax jurisdictions, may be audited at any time by U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities. Any such audits may result in tax liabilities in excess of those we have estimated. In November 2005, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service commenced an audit of our U.S. federal tax returns for our 2003 fiscal year. The audit is in process and management cannot predict the outcome. In addition, we have estimated our U.S. tax liability assuming the benefit of substantial net operating loss carryforwards. The use of our net operating loss carryforwards prior to 1999 are subject to certain limitations due to certain changes in our ownership in 1999 and 1998. If the use of our net operating loss carryforwards is limited to a further extent than we anticipate, our operating results may suffer. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technologies, our operating results may be harmed. The communications industry is evolving rapidly and is highly competitive. Accordingly, we have pursued and expect to continue to pursue acquisitions of businesses and technologies, or the establishment of joint venture arrangements, that could expand our business. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures, as well as the integration of an acquired or jointly developed business or technology, could cause diversion of management’s time and other resources or disrupt our operations. Future acquisitions could result in: • additional operating expenses without additional revenues; • potential dilutive issuances of equity securities; • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • amortization of other intangibles; • research and development write-offs; and • other acquisition-related expenses. Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses or joint ventures with our operations, and we may not receive the intended benefits of any future acquisition or joint venture. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 we recorded an impairment charge of $322,000 based on the amounts by which the carrying value of purchased intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisition of Gigabit Optics Corporation and Accumux Technologies, Inc. exceeded their fair value. This charge negatively affected our operating results for fiscal 2005, and any of the factors listed above could harm our operating results in future periods. Disruption to commercial activities in the United States or in other countries, particularly in China, may adversely impact our results of operations, our ability to raise capital or our future growth. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside the United States and substantial portions of our operations are located in China. Our international operations expose us to a number of additional risks associated with international operations, including, without limitation: • disruptions to commercial activities or damage to our facilities as a result of natural disasters, political unrest, war, terrorism, labor strikes, and work stoppages; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations with personnel who have expertise in optical network technology; • unexpected changes in regulatory or certification requirements for optical systems or networks; • disruptions in the transportation of our products and other risks related to the infrastructure of foreign countries; • economic instability. • any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, avian influenza and other epidemics or illnesses; and • power shortages at our manufacturing facilities in China, which may lead to production delays. To the extent that such disruptions interfere with our commercial activities, our results of operations could be harmed. Substantially all of our manufacturing operations are located in China and are subject to the laws and regulations of China. Our operations in China may be adversely affected by changes in the laws and regulations of China, such as those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. China’s central or local governments may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations, which would require additional expenditures. Chinese leaders noted 18 Table of Contents concerns regarding China’s recent economic growth since April 2004 and indicated, without providing specific details, that they may take very forceful measures to bring the economy under control. On April 27, 2006, the People’s Bank of China announced that it would raise the minimum rate banks charge on one-year loans in local currency 0.27 percentage points to 5.85 percent effective April 28, 2006. Furthermore, on August 18, 2006, the People’s Bank of China, China’s central bank, announced that it would raise both lending and deposit interest rates 0.27 percentage points effective August 19, 2006. China’s economy differs from the economies of many countries in terms of structure, government involvement, specificity and enforcement of governmental regulations, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, self-sufficiency and rate of inflation, among others. Our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed by changes in the political, economic or social conditions in China. In addition, events in China over which we have no control, such as political unrest, terrorism, war, labor strikes and work stoppages, could disrupt our operations. There is currently political tension between the United States and North Korea and the United States and China, which could, in either case, result in hostilities or deterioration in relations that would impact our trade relations with China. There is also significant tension between China and Taiwan, which could result in hostilities or lead to a breakdown in trade relations between China and the United States. Additionally, China continues its condemnation of the United States’ pledge of military support to Taiwan, which could lead to hostilities. Moreover, anti-Japanese sentiment in China may lead to business disruptions. If hostilities or other events cause a disruption in our operations, it would be difficult for us to establish manufacturing operations at an alternative location on comparable terms. We are exposed to currency rate fluctuations and exchange controls that could adversely impact our operating results. Significant portions of our operations are conducted in currencies other than the United States dollar, particularly in Chinese Renminbi. Our operating results are therefore subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For example, in July 2005, China uncoupled Renminbi from the dollar and will let it float in a narrow band against a basket of foreign currencies. The move revalued Renminbi by 2.1% against the U.S. dollar. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuation of Chinese renminbi against the U.S. dollar. The Renminbi-U.S. dollar exchange rate could float, and the Renminbi could appreciate relative to the U.S. dollar. For example, if the Renminbi had been revalued at the beginning of fiscal 2005 at 8.11 Renminbi to the US dollar instead of the actual rate of 8.28, the impact on our reported results would have been to increase net loss of fiscal 2005 by approximately $75,000. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the government of China to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. For example, Renminbi-U.S. dollar exchange rate appreciated to 8.0 at June 30, 2006. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, operating results and financial position. To reduce our gains and losses associated with converting foreign currencies into United States dollars, we may elect in the future to enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure. However, we cannot be certain that any such hedging activities will be effective, or available to us at commercially reasonable rates. As a result, we will continue to experience foreign currency gains and losses. Moreover, China’s government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Any shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to obtain and remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends to us or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations, such as payments to us for components, which we export to them and for technology licensing fees. Such shortages may also cause us to experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit needed foreign currency. Under the current foreign exchange control system, sufficient foreign currency is presently available for our Chinese subsidiaries to purchase imported components or to repatriate profits to us, but as demands on China’s foreign currency reserves increase over time to meet its commitments, sufficient foreign currency may not be available to satisfy China’s currency needs. 19 Table of Contents Our business could be negatively impacted if we are unable to convert and remit our sales received in Renminbi into U.S. dollars. Under existing foreign exchange laws, Renminbi held by our Chinese subsidiaries can be converted into foreign currencies and remitted out of China to pay current account items such as payments to suppliers for imports, labor services, payment of interest on foreign exchange loans and distributions of dividends so long as our subsidiaries have adequate amounts of Renminbi to purchase the foreign currency. Expenses of a capital nature such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies, however, require approval from appropriate governmental authorities before Renminbi can be used to purchase foreign currency for remittance out of China. This system could be changed at any time by executive decision of the State Council to impose limits on current account convertibility of the Renminbi or other similar restrictions. Moreover, even though the Renminbi is intended to be freely convertible on current accounts, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, which is responsible for administering China’s foreign currency market, has a significant degree of administrative discretion in interpreting and implementing foreign exchange control regulations. From time to time, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange has used this discretion in ways that effectively limit the convertibility of current account payments and restrict remittances out of China. Furthermore, in many circumstances the State Administration of Foreign Exchange must approve foreign currency conversions and remittances. Under the current foreign exchange control system, sufficient foreign currency may not always be available in the future at a given exchange rate to satisfy our currency demands. If tax benefits available to our subsidiaries located in China are reduced or repealed or our China subsidiaries fail to meet the requirements for utilizing such tax benefits, our financial condition and operating results could suffer. Our subsidiaries located in China enjoy tax benefits in China that are generally available to foreign investment enterprises, including full exemption from national enterprise income tax for two years starting from the first year when accumulated earnings have turned positive and a 50% reduction in the national income tax rate for the following three years. In addition, local enterprise income tax is often waived or reduced during this tax holiday/incentive period. Furthermore, under current regulations in China, foreign investment enterprises that have been accredited as technologically advanced enterprises are entitled to an additional three-year reduction in national income tax by 50%, with a provision that the income tax rate as so reduced may not be lower than 10%. However, the Chinese government recently announced that preferential tax treatment for foreign enterprises might be repealed beginning in 2007. In order to qualify for such benefits, a foreign investment enterprise must be operated continuously for ten years. In the past our subsidiaries in China have qualified for preferential tax treatment and have not been obligated to pay income tax. However, if our subsidiaries fail to meet the operation requirement due to events outside of their control, they may be required to pay for income tax on past profits. If China elects to repeal or reduce the tax benefits available to us in the future or we fail to continue to qualify for the tax benefits, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our wavelength expansion products have accounted for a majority of our revenues, and our revenues could be harmed if the price of, or demand for, these products further declines or if these products fail to achieve broader market acceptance. We believe that our future growth and a significant portion of our future revenues will depend on the commercial success of our wavelength expansion products. Customers that have purchased wavelength expansion products may not continue to purchase these products from us. Although we currently offer a broad spectrum of products, sales of our wavelength expansion products accounted for a majority of our revenues in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. These products include, among others, dense wavelength division multiplexers (“DWDMs”). These products accounted for 51%, 44% and 52% of our revenues in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Any decline in the price of, or demand for, our wavelength expansion products, or their failure to achieve broader market acceptance, could harm our revenues. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, our ability to succeed will be harmed. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws and 20 Table of Contents restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we have taken may not prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries, such as China, where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, our ability to succeed will be harmed. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of the attention of our technical and management personnel. We may be involved in intellectual property disputes in the future, which will divert management’s attention and could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology. Participants in the communications and fiber optic components and subsystems markets in which we sell our products have experienced frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in these industries are held by others, including our competitors and academic institutions. In addition, from time to time, we have become aware of the possibility or have been notified that we may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Regardless of their merit, responding to such claims could be time consuming, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. We have no means of knowing that a patent application has been filed in the United States until the patent is issued. Optical component suppliers may seek to gain a competitive advantage or other third parties may seek an economic return on their intellectual property portfolios by making infringement claims against us. From time to time we may be involved in lawsuits as a result of alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property. For example, in December 2001, Oz Optics Limited, OZ Optics, Inc. and Bitmath, Inc. (collectively, “OZ”) filed a lawsuit against us and four individuals, including our former Vice President of Product Line Management, alleging trade secret misappropriation and other related claims. Under the complaint, the plaintiffs sought damages against the four individuals in the amounts of approximately $17,550,000, and against us in the amount of approximately $1,500,000, as well as enhanced damages, injunctive relief, costs and attorney fees, and other relief. We settled the lawsuit against us in August 2004 and OZ agreed to dismiss the case against us with prejudice. However, we cannot assure you that OZ will not choose to pursue further litigation against us in the future. In addition, to our knowledge, OZ is continuing to pursue its lawsuit against all of the defendants other than us, and we may be obligated to indemnify our former Vice President of Product Line Management for certain amounts in connection with her prior employment with us. Both prosecuting and defending lawsuits involving our intellectual property may be costly and time consuming and may also divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. Intellectual property litigation is often highly complex and can extend for a protracted period of time, which can substantially increase the cost of litigation. Accordingly, the expenses and diversion of resources associated with intellectual property litigation to which we may become a party could seriously harm our business and financial condition. Any intellectual property litigation also could invalidate our proprietary rights and force us to do one or more of the following: • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; • pay substantial money damages; or • redesign the products that use the technology. Any of these actions could result in a substantial reduction in our revenue and could result in losses over an extended period of time. 21 Table of Contents We are the target of a securities class action complaint and are at risk of securities class action litigation, which could result in costs and divert management attention and resources. We are one of hundreds of defendants in a consolidated set of class action lawsuits, filed by plaintiffs (the “Plaintiffs”) against hundreds of public companies (the “Issuers”) that went public in the late 1990s and early 2000s (collectively, the “IPO Lawsuits”). In June 2003, Issuers and Plaintiffs reached a tentative settlement agreement and entered into a memorandum of understanding, providing for, among other things, a dismissal with prejudice and full release of the Issuers and their officers and directors from all liability resulting from Plaintiffs’ claims, and the assignment to Plaintiffs of certain potential claims that the Issuers may have against the underwriters. In addition, the tentative settlement guarantees that, in the event that the Plaintiffs recover less than $1 billion in settlement or judgment against the underwriter defendants in the IPO Lawsuits, the Plaintiffs would be entitled to payment by each participating Issuer’s insurer of a pro rata share of any shortfall in the Plaintiffs’ guaranteed recovery. In such event, our obligation would be limited to the amount remaining under the deductible of $1.0 million of our insurance policy. In September 2003, in connection with the tentative settlement, our officers and directors who entered tolling agreements with the Plaintiffs (described above) agreed to extend those agreements so that they would not expire prior to any settlement being finalized. In June 2004, we executed a settlement agreement with the Plaintiffs. On February 15, 2005, the Court issued a decision certifying a class action for settlement purposes and granting preliminary approval of the settlement subject to modification of certain bar orders contemplated by the settlement. On April 24, 2006, the Court held a hearing to consider whether the settlement should finally be approved, and took the matter of final approval under submission. In addition, the settlement is still subject to statutory notice requirements as well as final judicial approval. Pending final approval of the settlement, we continue to believe that the action against us is without merit and, we intend to defend against it vigorously. Our lengthy and variable qualification and sales cycle requires us to incur substantial costs to make a sale, and if the sale does not occur then we will have incurred these expenses without obtaining increased sales. Our customers typically expend significant efforts in evaluating and qualifying our products and manufacturing process prior to placing an order. This evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from nine to twelve months and sometimes longer. During the period that our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales, marketing and research and development expenses, expend significant management efforts, and increase manufacturing capacity and order long lead-time supplies. Even after this evaluation process, it is possible that a potential customer will not purchase our products. In addition, our customers’ product purchases are frequently subject to unplanned processing and other delays, particularly with respect to larger customers for which our products represent a very small percentage of their overall purchase activity. Long sales cycles may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter, which could cause volatility in our stock price. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively in a rapidly changing market, and if we are unable to retain our key employees and hire additional personnel, our ability to sell our products could be harmed. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key engineering, finance, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel. In addition, we depend substantially upon the continued services of key management personnel at our Chinese subsidiaries. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term, and these personnel may terminate their employment at any time. In addition, we do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly-skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Competition for highly-skilled personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. In addition, our management team has experienced significant personnel changes over the past and may continue to 22 Table of Contents experience changes in the future. If our management team experiences further changes and does not work effectively together, it could substantially harm our business. Because some of our third-party sales representatives and distributors carry products of one or more of our competitors, they may not recommend our products over competitors’ products. Our sales representatives and distributors are independent organizations that generally have exclusive geographic territories and generally are compensated on a commission basis. We are currently migrating some of our larger customers to direct sales. We expect that we will continue to rely on our independent sales representatives and distributors to market, sell and support many of our products for a substantial portion of our revenues. Some of our third-party sales representatives and distributors carry products of one or more of our competitors. As a result, these sales representatives and distributors may not recommend our products over competitors’ products, which could decrease our sales and harm our business. Our failure to comply with governmental regulations could subject us to liability. Our failure to comply with a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States and China could subject us to criminal, civil and administrative penalties. Our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations that regulate the export of products and disclosure of technical information to foreign countries and citizens. In some instances, these laws and regulations may require licenses for the export of products to, and disclosure of technology in, some countries, including China, and disclosure of technology to foreign citizens. With the exception of two commodity classifications we obtained from the Department of Commerce in 2001 with respect to some of our current products, we have generally relied on self-classification in determining whether an export license is required and have determined that export licenses are not required. As we develop and commercialize new products and technologies, the list of products and technologies subject to U.S. export controls changes, or in the event that the relevant export authorities disagree with the outcome of our self-classification, we may be required to obtain export licenses or other approvals with respect to those products and technologies and may possibly be subject to penalties under applicable laws. We cannot predict whether these licenses and approvals will be required and, if so, whether they will be granted. The failure to obtain any required license or approval could harm our business. We ship inventory and other materials to and from our facilities in China and, as a result, are subject to various Chinese and U.S. customs-related laws. Given the geographic distance and changing regulations and governmental standards, it can be difficult to monitor and enforce compliance with customs laws. For example, there have been inventory and other materials shipped to and from our facilities in China for which, upon arrival of the goods, there was not sufficient documentation to demonstrate the items comply with all local customs regulations. The U.S. Customs Service may also require us to revise product classifications from time to time with respect to various items imported into the United States. In such cases we may be required to pay any increase in customs duty to account for the difference in duty actually paid by Oplink and the duty owed under the amended product classification, and may also be subject to penalties under applicable laws. In addition, from time to time we enter into transfer pricing arrangements with our subsidiaries to establish sales prices for internal distributions of goods that have the effect of allocating taxes between the parent corporation and our subsidiaries. In general, these transfer prices have not been approved by any governmental entity and, therefore, may be challenged by the applicable tax authorities. China tax authorities have recently announced that they plan to increase transfer-pricing audits, and have specifically identified telecommunications companies, among others, as priority targets. We employ a number of foreign nationals in our U.S. operations and, as a result, we are subject to various laws related to the status of those employees with the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services. We also send our U.S. employees to China from time to time and for varying durations of time to assist with our Chinese operations. Depending on the durations of such arrangements, we may be required to withhold and pay personal income taxes in respect of the affected U.S. employees directly to the Chinese tax authorities, and the affected U.S. employees may be required to register with various Chinese governmental authorities. Our failure to comply with the foregoing laws and regulations or any other applicable laws and regulations could subject us to liability. 23 Table of Contents In addition, we are subject to laws relating to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous or regulated chemicals or materials used in our manufacturing processes. While we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with these laws and regulations, if we fail to store, use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately, we could be subject to substantial liability or could be required to suspend or adversely modify our manufacturing operations. In addition, we could be required to pay for the cleanup of our properties if they are found to be contaminated, even if we are not responsible for the contamination. Enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and are likely to continue to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act has required and will continue to require changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure or compliance practices. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires the SEC to promulgate new rules on a variety of subjects, in addition to rule proposals already made, and we may need to make further changes in response to such new rules. In addition, NASDAQ has revised its requirements for companies that are NASDAQ-listed, such as us. We expect these developments (i) have required and may continue to require us to devote additional resources to our operational, financial and management information systems procedures and controls to ensure our continued compliance with current and future laws and regulations, (ii) will make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage, increase our level of self-insurance, or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage, and (iii) could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, or qualified executive officers. For example, to implement plans and measures to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“the Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and other related rules, we expended significant resources and incurred significant expenses. We are presently evaluating and monitoring regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could impair the reliability of our financial statements, cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the SEC, harm our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we establish and maintain an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting (“Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting”) in our Annual Report on Form 10-K each year. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the Form 10-K. Although our management and independent registered public accounting firm have concluded that no material weaknesses in our Company’s internal control over financial reporting exist as of June 30, 2006, and although we believe that we are taking adequate measures to ensure that we maintain an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting, we can not assure you that this will be the case in the future periods. If, in the future, our management is unable to assert in the Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting to be included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for any fiscal year that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of such fiscal year, or if the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is fairly stated or it is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, the reliability of our consolidated financial statements could be impaired, we may be unable to timely file with the SEC our Annual Report on Form 10-K for such fiscal year and the Company’s reputation could be harmed, any of which could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, if we are not otherwise able to maintain adequate compliance with of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we could become subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or The NASDAQ Stock Market. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in existing accounting rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the 24 Table of Contents manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. For example, for purposes of our 2005 fiscal year quarterly and annual financial reports, we were not required to expense stock compensation charges in connection with stock option grants to our employees and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. Recent changes to the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidelines relating to accounting for stock compensation increased our compensation expense starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) (“SFAS 123(R)”) could make our net income/loss less predictable in any given reporting period and could harm our business. To mitigate future impact, we may revise our equity compensation program, which may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. Because of the rapid changes taking place in the fiber optics industry, we expect to experience significant volatility in our stock price, which could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Because of the rapid changes taking place in the fiber optics industry, we expect the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. For example, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated from a high sales price of $285.67 to a low sales price of $3.71 during the period from October 3, 2000, the date of our initial public offering, to June 30, 2006. These fluctuations may occur in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • economic downturn in the fiber optics industry; • preannouncement of financial results; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and our failure to meet estimates; • changes in market values of comparable companies; • announcements by our competitors or us of new products or of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • any loss by us of a major customer; • the outcome of, and costs associated with, any litigation to which we are or may become a party; • additions or departures of key management or engineering personnel; and • future sales of our common stock. The price of our common stock may also be affected by general economic and market conditions, and the cost of operations in our product markets. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these factors may have on the price of our common stock, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant variations in price during any given period of time and could adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law and other arrangements may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent any change in control, which could negatively affect your investment. Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions permit us to: • issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders; • provide for a classified board of directors; • eliminate the right of the stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; • eliminate the right of stockholders to act by written consent; and 25 Table of Contents • impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. In addition, on March 18, 2002, our Board of Directors adopted a share purchase rights plan, which has certain additional anti-takeover effects. Specifically, the terms of the plan provide for a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock. These rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Any of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 