RISK FACTORS Set out below is a discussion of certain factors, which could affect the Group’s future results and financial position and cause them to be materially different. The factors discussed below should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties because there may be risks and uncertainties of which the Group is not aware or which the Group now does not consider significant but which in the future may be of greater significance. Risks concerning borrower credit quality and general economic conditions are inherent in the Group’s business. Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide range of the Group’s businesses. Adverse changes in the credit quality of the Group’s borrowers and counterparties or a general deterioration in Irish, UK or global economic conditions, or arising from systemic risks in the financial systems, could reduce the recoverability and value of the Group’s assets and require an increase in the Group’s level of allowances for losses on loans and advances. An adverse change in economic conditions, particularly in Ireland, could also adversely affect the level of banking activity and the Group’s interest and other income. Market risks associated with fluctuations in short- and long-term interest rates and foreign exchange rates are inherent in the Group’s business. Interest rates and interest-rate spreads are the most significant market factors to which the Group’s earnings are exposed. In addition, earnings and the value of Group net worth can be exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates, particularly the euro-sterling rate. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect the net interest rate margin realised between lending and borrowing costs and can also affect earnings attributable to free funds (net non-interest bearing liabilities). It is Group policy to invest its free funds, passively, in a portfolio of fixed rate assets with an average life of four years. Changes in currency rates, particularly in the euro-sterling exchange rate and, to a much lesser extent, the euro-dollar rate, can affect the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, the Group’s capital ratios and earnings reported by the Group’s non-euro denominated business. The Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control the impact of exchange-rate movements on its capital ratios. The Group does not ordinarily seek to mitigate the impact of exchange rates on reported earnings. See Item 11 “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Risk Management and Control” for a discussion of these risks. Operational risks are inherent in the Group’s business. The Group’s business depends on the ability to process a large number of transactions efficiently and accurately. Losses can result from inadequate or failed internal control processes, and systems, human error, fraud or from external events that interrupt normal business operations. Although the Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions and substantial resources are dedicated to developing efficient procedures and training of staff, it is only possible to be reasonably, but not absolutely certain that such procedures will be effective. See Item 11 “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Risk Management and Control — Operational Risk”. The Group’s businesses are subject to substantial legal, regulatory and governmental requirements and oversight. The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative actions and policies in each location in which the Group operates. Changes in supervision and regulation, in particular in Ireland and the UK, could materially affect the Group’s business, the products and services offered or the value of assets. The nature and impact of these changes are unpredictable and outside the control of the Group. In recent times there have been significant regulatory changes in Ireland, the UK and the U.S., which have resulted in increased compliance responsibilities. In the past year in particular there has been a marked increase in the cost and resources required 11 Table of Contents to manage these changes (in particular once-off costs relates to Sarbanes-Oxley 404 compliance) across different jurisdictions and the Group has a number of separate projects underway related to these changes. Risks associated with strategic decisions regarding organic growth, the competitive environment and potential acquisitions are inherent in the Group’s business. The Group devotes substantial management and planning resources developing strategic plans for organic growth and identifying possible acquisitions. If the outcome of these plans does not match expectations, the Group’s earnings may not develop as forecasted. In addition, the market for financial services within which the Group operates is highly competitive; the Group’s ability to generate an appropriate return for its shareholders depends significantly upon management’s response to the competitive environment. See Item 4 ”Information on the Company — Business Overview” for additional information. The Group’s insurance businesses are subject to inherent risk regarding claims provisions. Claims in the Group’s life assurance businesses may be higher than expected as a result of changing trends in general demographics, including changes in mortality rates, critical illness rates, morbidity rates and other factors outside the Group’s control. Such changes could affect the profitability of current and future insurance products and services. 