Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and to Our Business Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil and natural gas prices would reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flow and impede our growth. Our revenues, profitability and cash flow depend substantially upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas. The markets for these commodities are volatile and even relatively modest drops in prices can affect significantly our financial results and impede our growth. Oil and natural gas prices increased to, and then declined significantly from, historical highs in 2008 and may fluctuate and decline significantly in the future. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and 30 Table of Contents demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as: • domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • price and quantity of foreign imports; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; • level of consumer product demand; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting oil and natural gas consumption; • overall U.S. and global economic conditions; and • price and availability of alternative fuels. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. To the extent that oil or natural gas comprises more than 50% of our production or estimated proved reserves, our financial results may be more sensitive to movements in prices of that commodity. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. This may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See above “Item 1. Business — Estimated Proved Reserves.” In addition, we may, from time to time, enter into long-term contracts based upon our reasoned expectations for commodity price levels. If commodity prices subsequently decrease significantly for a sustained period, we may be unable to perform our obligations or otherwise breach the contract and be liable for damages. The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession. A recession or slowdown in economic activity would likely reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in lower oil and natural gas prices, which could materially adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. In addition, the economic crisis may adversely affect our liquidity. We may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our bank credit facility because our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations, or because our borrowing base under the facility may be decreased as the result of a redetermination, reducing it due to lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or other reasons. If funding is not available as needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be unable to implement our business strategies or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. 31 Table of Contents Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will affect materially the quantities and present value of our reserves, which may lower our bank borrowing base and reduce our access to capital. Estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex and inherently imprecise. It requires interpretation of the available technical data and making many assumptions about future conditions, including price and other economic conditions. In preparing estimates we project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We also analyze the available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. This process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates, perhaps significantly. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If the interpretations or assumptions we use in arriving at our estimates prove to be inaccurate, the amount of oil and natural gas that we ultimately recover may differ materially from the estimated quantities and net present value of reserves shown in this report. See above “Item 1. Business — Estimated Proved Reserves” for information about our oil and gas reserves. In estimating future net revenues from estimated proved reserves, we assume that future prices and costs are fixed and apply a fixed discount factor. If any such assumption or the discount factor is materially inaccurate, our revenues, profitability and cash flow could be materially less than our estimates. The present value of future net revenues from our estimated proved reserves referred to in this report is not necessarily the actual current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves on an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the month price for each month during the 12-month calendar year and year-end costs. Actual future prices and costs fluctuate over time and may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. The timing of both the production and expenses from the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor that we use to calculate the net present value of future net cash flows for reporting purposes in accordance with SEC rules may not necessarily be the most appropriate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our business or the oil and natural gas industry, in general, will affect the appropriateness of the 10% discount factor in arriving at an accurate net present value of future net cash flows. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to write-down the carrying value and/or the estimates of total reserves of our oil and natural gas properties. Accounting rules applicable to us require that we review periodically the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the net capitalized cost of our proved oil and gas properties exceeded the ceiling limit and we recorded a non-cash ceiling test impairment of $754.3 million. See below “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Oil and Gas Properties,” and Item 8, Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our use of the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties and its impact at December 31, 2009. We may incur other non-cash charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken. We may also 32 Table of Contents reduce our estimates of the reserves that may be economically recovered, which could have the effect of reducing the value of our reserves. We need to replace our reserves at a faster rate than companies whose reserves have longer production periods. Our failure to replace our reserves would result in decreasing reserves and production over time. Unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proven reserves, our estimated proved reserves will decline as reserves are depleted. Producing oil and natural gas reserves are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics and other factors. High production rates generally result in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties during the initial few years of production. A significant portion of our current operations are conducted in the Gulf of Mexico. Production from reserves in the Gulf of Mexico generally declines more rapidly than reserves from reservoirs in other producing regions. As a result, our need to replace reserves from new investments is relatively greater than those of producers who produce their reserves over a longer time period, such as those producers whose reserves are located in areas where the rate of reserve production is lower. If we are not able to find, develop or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production, our production rates will decline even if we drill the undeveloped locations that were included in our estimated proved reserves. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and income, are dependent on our success in economically finding or acquiring new reserves and efficiently developing our existing reserves. Of our total estimated proved reserves, approximately 30% are undeveloped and ultimately may be reclassified as unproved or not be developed, and 20% are developed non-producing and may not be produced. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 30% of our total estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. The SEC generally requires that reserves classified as proved undeveloped be capable of conversion into proved developed within five years of classification unless specific circumstances justify a longer time. Approximately 7.8% of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2009 have been classified as such for at least four years. Proved undeveloped reserves that are not timely developed are subject to possible reclassification as non-proved reserves. Substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and lower our bank borrowing base and reduce our access to capital. In addition to our proved undeveloped reserves, as of December 31, 2009 approximately 20% of our total estimated proved reserves were developed non-producing. Not all of our undeveloped or developed non-producing reserves ultimately may be developed or produced during the time periods we have planned, at the costs we have budgeted, or at all, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any production problems related to our Gulf of Mexico properties could reduce our revenue, profitability and cash flow materially. A substantial portion of our exploration and production activities is located in the Gulf of Mexico. This concentration of activity makes us more vulnerable than some other industry participants to the risks associated with the Gulf of Mexico, including delays and increased costs relating to adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes, which are common in the Gulf of Mexico during certain times of the year, drilling rig and other oilfield services and compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations. Our exploration and development activities may not be commercially successful. Exploration activities involve numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be discovered. In addition, the future cost and timing of drilling, completing and producing wells is often uncertain. Furthermore, drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; 33 Table of Contents • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, which are common in the Gulf of Mexico during certain times of the year; • compliance with governmental regulations; • unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment or labor; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; and • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular project, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the project, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the project, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our exploratory drilling projects are based in part on seismic data, which is costly and cannot ensure the commercial success of the project. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop and exploit prospects or properties depend in part on data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often uncertain. Even when used and properly interpreted, 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques only assist geoscientists and geologists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. 3-D seismic data do not enable an interpreter to conclusively determine whether hydrocarbons are present or producible economically. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies may require greater predrilling expenditures than other drilling strategies. Because of these factors, we could incur losses as a result of exploratory drilling expenditures. Poor results from exploration activities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, ability to replace reserves and results of operations. Oil and gas drilling and production involve many business and operating risks, any one of which could reduce our levels of production, cause substantial losses or prevent us from realizing profits. Our business is subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including: • fires; • explosions; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of underground natural gas, oil and formation water; • natural events and natural disasters, such as loop currents, and hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; • pipe or cement failures; • casing collapses; • lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If any of these events occurs, we could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental 34 Table of Contents damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties, suspension of our operations and repairs to resume operations. Our offshore operations involve special risks that could increase our cost of operations and adversely affect our ability to produce oil and natural gas. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of equipment and properties. Exploration for oil or natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico deepwater generally involves greater operational and financial risks than exploration on the shelf. Deepwater drilling generally requires more time and more advanced drilling technologies, involving a higher risk of technological failure and usually higher drilling costs. Moreover, deepwater projects often lack proximity to the physical and oilfield service infrastructure present in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico, necessitating significant capital investment in subsea flow line infrastructure. Subsea tieback production systems require substantial time and the use of advanced and very sophisticated installation equipment supported by remotely operated vehicles. These operations may encounter mechanical difficulties and equipment failures that could result in significant cost overruns. As a result, a significant amount of time and capital must be invested before we can market the associated oil or natural gas, increasing both the financial and operational risk involved with these operations. Because of the lack and high cost of infrastructure, some reserve discoveries in the deepwater may never be produced economically. See above “Item 1. Business — Properties — Gulf of Mexico Deepwater Operations” for information about our use of tieback technology. Our hedging transactions may not protect us adequately from fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and may limit future potential gains from increases in commodity prices or result in losses. We typically enter into hedging arrangements pertaining to a substantial portion of our expected future production in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and to achieve more predictable cash flow. These financial arrangements typically take the form of price swap contracts and costless collars. Hedging arrangements expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including situations when the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or production is less than expected. During periods of high commodity prices, hedging arrangements may limit significantly the extent to which we can realize financial gains from such higher prices. Although we currently maintain an active hedging program, we may choose not to engage in hedging transactions in the future. As a result, we may be affected adversely during periods of declining oil and natural gas prices. Counterparty contract default could have an adverse effect on us. Our revenues are generated under contracts with various counterparties. Results of operations would be adversely affected as a result of non-performance by any of these counterparties of their contractual obligations under the various contracts. A counterparty’s default or non-performance could be caused by factors beyond our control such as a counterparty experiencing credit default. A default could occur as a result of circumstances relating directly to the counterparty, such as defaulting on its credit obligations, or due to circumstances caused by other market participants having a direct or indirect relationship with the counterparty. Defaults by counterparties may occur from time to time, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation or the remote location of our drilling operations may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our 35 Table of Contents production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. In deepwater operations, the availability of a ready market depends on the proximity of, and our ability to tie into, existing production platforms owned or operated by others and the ability to negotiate commercially satisfactory arrangements with the owners or operators. We may be required to shut in wells or delay initial production for lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of pipeline or gathering system capacity. When that occurs, we are unable to realize revenue from those wells until the production can be tied to a gathering system. This can result in considerable delays from the initial discovery of a reservoir to the actual production of the oil and natural gas and realization of revenues. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could affect adversely our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans within budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increased drilling activity periodically results in service cost increases and shortages in drilling rigs, personnel, equipment and supplies in certain areas. Shortages in availability or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or affect adversely our exploration and development operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increases in drilling activity in the United States or the Gulf of Mexico could exacerbate this situation. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense and many of our competitors have resources that are greater than ours, giving them an advantage in evaluating and obtaining properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. Many of our competitors are major and large independent oil and natural gas companies and possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Larger competitors may be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling and absorb the burden of changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. Financial difficulties encountered by our farm-out partners, working interest owners or third-party operators could adversely affect our ability to timely complete the exploration and development of our prospects. From time to time, we enter into farm-out agreements to fund a portion of the exploration and development costs of our prospects. Moreover, other companies operate some of the other properties in which we have an ownership interest. Liquidity and cash flow problems encountered by our partners and co-owners of our properties may lead to a delay in the pace of drilling or project development that may be detrimental to a project. In addition, our farm-out partners and working interest owners may be unwilling or unable to pay their share of the costs of projects as they become due. In the case of a farm-out partner, we may have to obtain alternative funding in order to complete the exploration and development of the prospects subject to the farm-out agreement. In the case of a working interest owner, we may be required to pay the working interest owner’s share of the project costs. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain the capital necessary in order to fund either of these contingencies. 36 Table of Contents We cannot control the timing or scope of drilling and development activities on properties we do not operate, and therefore we may not be in a position to control the associated costs or the rate of production of the reserves. Other companies operate some of the properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we have a limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control, including timing and amount of capital expenditures, the operator’s expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants in drilling wells and selection of technology. Compliance with environmental and other government regulations could be costly and could affect production negatively. Exploration for and development, production and sale of oil and natural gas in the United States and the Gulf of Mexico are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with these environmental and other requirements. Matters subject to regulation include, among others, environmental assessment prior to development, discharge and emission permits for drilling and production operations, drilling bonds, and reports concerning operations and taxation. Under these laws and regulations, and also common law causes of action, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of pollutants and hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or to obtain or comply with required permits may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to remedial obligations, as well as administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. We cannot predict how agencies or courts will interpret existing laws and regulations, whether additional or more stringent laws and regulations will be adopted or the effect these interpretations and adoptions may have on our business or financial condition. For example, the OPA imposes a variety of regulations on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations promulgated pursuant to the OPA could have a material adverse impact on us. Further, Congress or the MMS could decide to limit exploratory drilling or natural gas production in additional areas of the Gulf of Mexico. Accordingly, any of these liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See above “Item 1. Business — Regulation” for more information on our regulatory and environmental matters. Compliance with MMS regulations could significantly delay or curtail our operations or require us to make material expenditures, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. A significant portion of our operations are located on federal oil and natural gas leases that are administered by the MMS. As an offshore operator, we must obtain MMS approval for our exploration, development and production plans prior to commencing such operations. The MMS has promulgated regulations that, among other things, require us to meet stringent engineering and construction specifications, restrict the flaring or venting of natural gas, govern the plugging and abandonment of wells located offshore and the installation and removal of all production facilities and govern the calculation of royalties and the valuation of crude oil produced from federal leases. Our insurance may not fully protect us against our business and operating risks. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is 37 Table of Contents excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of the losses sustained in 2005 from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and in 2008 from Hurricane Ike, as well as other factors affecting market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies, including windstorm insurance, have increased substantially. In some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our certain insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See above “Item 1. Business — Insurance Matters.” Although we maintain insurance at levels that we believe are appropriate and consistent with industry practice, we are not fully insured against all risks, including drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we have not yet been able to determine the full extent of our insurance recovery and the net cost to us resulting from Hurricane Ike. See above “Item 1. Business — Insurance Matters” and below “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information. The proposed U.S. federal budget for fiscal year 2010 includes certain provisions that, if passed as originally submitted, will have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The Office of Management and Budget’s proposed U.S. federal budget for fiscal year 2010 repeals many tax incentives and deductions that are currently used by U.S. oil and gas companies and imposes new taxes. The provisions include: elimination of the ability to fully deduct intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; increases in the taxation of foreign source income; levy of an excise tax on Gulf of Mexico oil and gas production; repeal of the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and gas companies; and increase in the geological and geophysical amortization period for independent producers. Should some or all of these provisions become law, our taxes will increase, potentially significantly, which would have a negative impact on our net income and cash flows. Since none of these proposals have yet to be voted on or become law, we do not know the ultimate impact these proposed changes may have on our business. Risks Relating to Significant Acquisitions and Other Strategic Transactions The evaluation and integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult. We periodically evaluate acquisitions of reserves, properties, prospects and leaseholds and other strategic transactions that appear to fit within our overall business strategy. Significant acquisitions and other strategic transactions may involve many risks, including: • diversion of our management’s attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions; • challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with those of ours while carrying on our ongoing business; • our exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses, operations or properties; • possibility of faulty assumptions underlying our expectations, including assumptions relating to reserves, future production, volumes, revenues, costs and synergies; • difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations; and • challenge of attracting and retaining personnel associated with acquired operations. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our 38 Table of Contents business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. If we fail to realize the anticipated benefits of a significant acquisition, our results of operations may be lower than we expect. The success of a significant acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities from combining the acquired assets or operations with those of ours. Even if a combination is successful, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits we may expect in estimated proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition or realize these benefits within the expected time frame. Anticipated benefits of an acquisition may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity prices, or in oil and natural gas industry conditions, or by risks and uncertainties relating to the exploratory prospects of the combined assets or operations, or an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from an acquisition, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Financing and other liabilities of a significant acquisition may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations or be dilutive to stockholders. Future significant acquisitions and other strategic transactions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities and expenses, all of which could decrease our liquidity or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, an issuance of securities in connection with such transactions could dilute or lessen the rights of our current common stockholders. Properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. Properties we acquire may not produce as expected, may be in an unexpected condition and may subject us to increased costs and liabilities, including environmental liabilities. The reviews we conduct of acquired properties, prior to acquisition, are not capable of identifying all potential adverse conditions. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Ordinarily, we will focus our review efforts on the higher value properties or properties with known adverse conditions and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their condition, any deficiencies, and development potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Risks Relating to Financings We will require additional capital to fund our future activities. If we fail to obtain additional capital, we may not be able to implement fully our business plan, which could lead to a decline in reserves. We may require financing beyond our cash flow from operations to fully execute our business plan. Historically, we have financed our business plan and operations primarily with internally generated cash flow, bank borrowings, proceeds from the sale of oil and natural gas properties, exploration arrangements with other parties, and the issuance of debt and equity securities. In the future, we will require substantial capital to fund our business plan and operations. We expect to meet our needs from one or more of our excess cash flow, debt financings and equity offerings. Sufficient capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain additional capital resources, we may curtail our drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on unfavorable terms. The issuance of additional debt would require that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements, which could place us at a competitive 39 Table of Contents disadvantage relative to other competitors. Additionally, if revenues decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties or declines in reserves, our ability to obtain the capital necessary to undertake or complete future exploration and development programs and to pursue other opportunities may be limited. This could also result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could result in a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. We may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet our debt obligations. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary significantly from year to year due to the cyclical nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt that we can manage, in some periods, may not be appropriate for us in other periods. Additionally, our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and commitments, including the notes. Any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. A range of economic, competitive, business and industry factors will affect our future financial performance and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay our debt. Many of these factors, such as oil and natural gas prices, economic and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy or competitive initiatives of our competitors, are beyond our control. Our debt level and the covenants in the agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt obligations. Our level of indebtedness and the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt could have important consequences for our operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities; • limiting management’s discretion in operating our business; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • detracting from our ability to withstand, successfully, a downturn in our business or the economy generally; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors; and • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because debt under our bank credit facility will, in some cases, vary with prevailing interest rates. We may be required to repay all or a portion of our debt on an accelerated basis in certain circumstances. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions in the agreements governing our debt, it could lead to an event of default and the consequent acceleration of our obligation to repay outstanding debt. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. In addition, under the terms of our bank credit facility and the indentures governing our several series of senior unsecured notes, we must comply with certain financial covenants, including current asset and total debt ratio requirements under the bank credit facility. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which in turn will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, market and competitive factors, in particular the selling prices for our products and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. 40 Table of Contents The breach of any of the covenants in the indentures or the bank credit facility could result in a default under the applicable agreement or a cross default under each agreement, which would permit the applicable lenders or noteholders, as the case may be, to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. We may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. If we are unable to repay our debt out of cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. We cannot assure that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt or those future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to pay or refinance such debt. The terms of our debt, including our bank credit facility, may also prohibit us from taking such actions. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We cannot assure that any such offerings, refinancing or sale of assets could be successfully completed. Ownership of property interests and production operations in areas outside the United States is subject to foreign currency risks. To the extent we generate revenue outside the U.S., our operations will be sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly through the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. We may experience currency exchange or other financial losses where we do not take or unsuccessfully take protective measures against exposure to a foreign currency, such as through currency exchange contracts. We also may incur losses as a result of controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. Our financial statements, presented in U.S. dollars, are affected by foreign currency fluctuations through both translation risk and transaction risk. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 