Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this report and in the documents incorporated by reference herein and therein. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently deem to be material, and do not represent all of the risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider material may in the future become material and impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes. The continuing global financial crisis and current uncertainty in global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The global financial crisis experienced worldwide during 2008 is continuing in 2009, and the impact of this crisis on the U.S. and foreign economies appears to be worsening. As a result, we have experienced a contraction in the demand for our products, which has adversely impacted our results of operations. Although the U.S. and other governments have taken various actions in an attempt to stabilize the financial markets, it is unclear whether those actions will be effective. The volatility and illiquidity of financial and credit markets and the resulting negative economic impact could continue, and it is possible that the conditions may be prolonged. If this occurs, demand for our products may continue to contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, there could be a number of related effects on our business resulting from these economic conditions, including the potential insolvency of one or more of our suppliers resulting in product delays, potential customer insolvencies, an inability on the part of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and reduced demand by the ultimate end-users of our products. Although we continue to monitor market conditions, we cannot predict future market conditions or their impact on demand for our products. The market for wireless broadband data access products is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We may be unable to compete effectively. The market for wireless broadband data access products is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We expect competition to continue to increase and intensify. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, operational and marketing resources than we do. These competitors, for example, may be able to respond more rapidly or more effectively than we can to new or emerging technologies, changes in customer requirements, supplier related developments, or a shift in the business landscape. They also may devote greater or more effective resources than we do to the development, promotion, sale, and post-sale support of their respective products and services. Many of our current and potential competitors have more extensive customer bases and broader customer, supplier and other industry relationships that they can leverage to establish competitive dealings with many of our current and potential customers. Some of these companies also have more established and larger customer support organizations than we do. In addition, these companies may adopt more aggressive pricing policies or offer more attractive terms to customers than they currently do or than we are able to, may bundle their competitive products with broader product offerings and may introduce new products and enhancements. Current and potential competitors might merge or otherwise establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products or market position. As a result, it is possible that new competitors or 10 Table of Contents new or otherwise enhanced relationships among existing competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share to the detriment of our business. Our wireless communications products currently compete with a variety of devices, including other wireless modems, wireless handsets, wireless handheld computing devices and other wireless devices. Our current and potential competitors include: • wireless data modem providers, such as Huawei, Option International, Sierra Wireless, Kyocera, Pantech, and Sony-Ericsson; and • wireless handset providers, such as Motorola, Nokia, Siemens, and Sony-Ericsson. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the features and performance of their current products and to introduce new products, services and technologies. Successful new product introductions or enhancements by our competitors could reduce our sales and the market acceptance of our products, cause intense price competition and make our products obsolete. To remain competitive, we must continue to invest significant resources (financial, human and otherwise) in, among other things, research and development, sales and marketing, and customer support. We cannot be sure that we will have or will continue to have sufficient resources to make these investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary for our products to remain competitive. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer or smaller customer orders, reduced margins and loss of our market share. Our failure to compete successfully could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to predict and comply with evolving wireless industry standards, including 3G standards, could hurt our ability to introduce and sell new products. In our industry, it is critical to our success that we accurately anticipate evolving wireless technology standards and that our products comply with such standards in relevant respects. We are currently focused on engineering and manufacturing products that comply with several different 3G wireless standards. Any failure of our products to comply with any one of these or future applicable standards could prevent or delay their introduction and require costly and time-consuming engineering changes. Additionally, if an insufficient number of wireless operators or subscribers adopt the standards to which we engineer our products, then sales of our new products designed to those standards could be materially harmed. If we fail to develop and introduce new products successfully, we may lose key customers or product orders and our business could be harmed. The development of new wireless data products requires technological innovation and can be difficult, lengthy and costly. In addition, wireless operators require that wireless data systems deployed on their networks comply with their own technical and product performance standards, which may differ from the standards our products are required to meet for other operators. This increases the complexity of the product development and customer approval process. In addition, as we introduce new products or new versions of our existing products, our current customers may not require or desire the technological innovations of these products and may not purchase them or might purchase them in smaller quantities than we had expected. Further, as part of our strategy, we enter into contracts with some customers pursuant to which we develop products for later sale to that customer. Our ability to generate future revenue and operating income under any such contracts depends upon, among other factors, our ability to timely develop products that are suitable for manufacturing in a cost effective manner and that meet defined product design, technical and performance specifications. Our ability to maximize the benefits of these contracts is subject to the following risks: • We have priced the products to be sold under these contracts based on our estimated development, production, and warranty costs. If these or other related development, production or support costs are actually higher than our estimated costs, our gross margins and operating margins on the corresponding products sold will be less than anticipated. 11 Table of Contents • If we are unable to commit the necessary engineering, program management and other resources or are otherwise unable to successfully develop products as required by the terms of these contracts, our customers might cancel the related contracts, we may not be entitled to recover any costs that we incurred for research and development, sales and marketing, production and otherwise, and we may be subject to additional costs such as contractual penalties. • If we fail to deliver in a timely manner a product that is suitable for manufacture in a cost effective manner or if a customer determines that a prototype product we delivered does not meet the agreed-upon specifications, we may be unable to commercially launch the product, we may have to reduce the price we charge for such product if it launches, or we may be required to pay damages to the customer. These circumstances may also result in excess or obsolete inventory charges that may materially impact our financial results. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks or meet required delivery specifications or deadlines in connection with one or more of our key contracts, we may lose key customers or orders and our business could be harmed. If we fail to develop and maintain strategic relationships, we may not be able to penetrate new markets. A key element of our business strategy is to penetrate new markets by developing new products through strategic relationships with industry leaders in wireless communications. We are currently investing, and plan to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these relationships. We believe that our success in penetrating new markets for our products will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain these relationships and to cultivate additional or alternative relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to develop additional strategic relationships, that existing relationships will survive and successfully achieve their purposes or that the companies with whom we have strategic relationships will not form competing arrangements with others or determine to compete unilaterally with us. We expect to continue to depend upon only a small number of our customers for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our business could be negatively affected by an adverse change in our dealings with these customers. A significant portion of our revenue comes from a small number of customers. Our top ten customers on the basis of revenue generated for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 accounted for an aggregate of approximately 88.9% and 89.2% of our revenue, respectively. Similarly, our revenue could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain the level of business of any of our significant customers or if we are unable to diversify our customer base. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future and any impairment of our relationship with these customers could adversely affect our business. In addition, a majority of our current customers purchase our products pursuant to contracts that do not require them to purchase any specific minimum quantity of units other than the number of units ordered on a separate purchase order. These customers have no contractual obligation to continue to purchase our products and if they do not continue to make purchases consistent with their historical purchase levels, our revenue would decline if we are unable to increase sales from other existing or new customers. In light of the limited number of leading wireless operators and OEMs that form our primary customer base, many of whom are already customers, it would be difficult to replace lost revenue resulting from the loss of any significant existing customer or from a material reduction in the volume of business we conduct with any significant existing customer. Consolidation among our customers may further concentrate our business to a limited number of customers and expose us to increased risks relating to dependence on a limited number of customers, which dependence could adversely affect our operating results. We have had to qualify, and are required to maintain our status, as a supplier for each of our customers. This is a lengthy process that involves the inspection and approval by each customer of our engineering, 12 Table of Contents documentation, manufacturing and quality control procedures before that customer will place volume orders. Attempts to lessen the adverse effect of any loss of, or any material reduction in the volume of business we conduct with, any significant existing customer through the rapid addition of one or more new customers would be difficult because of these qualification requirements. Consequently, our business and operating results could be adversely affected by the loss of, or any material reduction in the volume of business we conduct with, any existing significant customer. The sale of our products depends on the demand for broadband wireless access to enterprise networks and the Internet. The markets for broadband wireless access solutions are rapidly evolving, both technologically and competitively, and the successful sale of related products and services depends in part on the strength of the demand for wireless access to both enterprise networks and the Internet. At times, market demand for both wireless products and wireless access services for the transmission of data developed at a slower rate than we had anticipated and as a result our product sales did not generate sufficient revenue to cover our corresponding operating costs. The failure of these markets to continue to grow at the rate that we currently anticipate may adversely impact the growth in the demand for our products and our concomitant rate of growth, and as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. The marketability of our products may suffer if wireless telecommunications operators do not deliver acceptable wireless services. The success of our business depends, in part, on the capacity, affordability, reliability and prevalence of wireless data networks provided by wireless telecommunications operators and on which our products operate. Currently, various wireless telecommunications operators, either individually or jointly with us, sell our products in connection with the sale of their wireless data services to their customers. Growth in demand for wireless data access may be limited if, for example, wireless telecommunications operators cease or materially curtail operations, fail to offer services that customers consider valuable at acceptable prices, fail to maintain sufficient capacity to meet demand for wireless data access, delay the expansion of their wireless networks and services, fail to offer and maintain reliable wireless network services or fail to market their services effectively. In addition, our future growth depends on the successful deployment of next generation wireless data networks provided by third parties, including those networks for which we are currently developing products. If these next generation networks are not deployed or widely accepted, or if deployment is delayed, there will be no market for the products we are developing to operate on these networks. If any of these events occurs, or if for any other reason the demand for wireless data access fails to grow, sales of our products will decline or remain stagnant and our business could be harmed. If we do not properly manage the development of our business, we may experience significant strains on our management and operations and disruptions in our business. Various risks arise when companies and industries quickly evolve. If our business or industry develops more quickly than our ability to respond, our ability to meet customer demand in a timely and efficient manner could be challenged. We may also experience development, certification or production delays as we seek to meet increased demand for our products or unanticipated product requirements. Our failure to properly manage the developments that we or our industry might experience could negatively impact our ability to execute on our operating plan then in effect and, accordingly, could have an adverse impact on our business, our cash flow and results of operations, and our reputation with our current or potential customers. 13 Table of Contents We currently rely on third parties to manufacture our products, which exposes us to a number of risks and uncertainties outside our control. We currently outsource our manufacturing to LG Innotek and Inventec Appliances Corporation. In addition, commencing in the first quarter of 2009, we anticipate purchasing and re-selling certain embedded modules manufactured by Foxconn. If one of these third-party manufacturers were to experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, product shipments to our customers could be delayed or rejected or our customers could consequently elect to cancel the underlying product purchase order, which would negatively impact our revenues and our competitive position and reputation. Further, if we are unable to manage successfully our relationship with a manufacturer, the quality and availability of our products may be harmed. None of our third-party manufacturers is obligated to supply us with a specific quantity of products, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order that we may submit to them and that has been accepted. Our third-party manufacturers could under some circumstances decline to accept new purchase orders from us or otherwise reduce their business with us. If a manufacturer stopped manufacturing our products for any reason or reduced manufacturing capacity, we may be unable to replace the lost manufacturing capacity on a timely and comparatively cost effective basis, which would adversely impact our operations. In addition, if a third-party manufacturer were to negatively change the payment and other terms under which it agrees to manufacture for us and we are unable to locate a suitable alternative manufacturer, our manufacturing costs could significantly increase. Because we outsource the manufacture of all of our products, the cost, quality and availability of third-party manufacturing operations are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers exposes us to a number of risks which are outside our control, including: • unexpected increases in manufacturing costs; • interruptions in shipments if a third-party manufacturer is unable to complete production in a timely manner; • inability to control quality of finished products; • inability to control delivery schedules; • inability to control production levels and to meet minimum volume commitments to our customers; • inability to control manufacturing yield; • inability to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity; and • inability to secure adequate volumes of acceptable components, at suitable prices or in a timely manner. Although we promote ethical business practices and our operations personnel periodically visit and monitor the operations of our manufacturers, we do not control the manufacturers or their labor practices. If our current manufacturers, or any other third-party manufacturer which we may use in the future, violate United States or foreign laws or regulations, we may be subjected to extra duties, significant monetary penalties, adverse publicity, the seizure and forfeiture of products that we are attempting to import or the loss of our import privileges. The effects of these factors could render the conduct of our business in a particular country undesirable or impractical and have a negative impact on our operating results. We might forecast customer demand incorrectly and order the manufacture of excess or insufficient quantities of particular products. We have historically placed purchase orders with our manufacturers at least three months prior to the scheduled delivery of the finished goods to our customer. In some instances, due to the length of component lead times, we might need to place manufacturing orders with our contract manufacturers solely on the basis of our receipt of a good-faith but non-binding customer forecast of the quantity and timing of the customer’s expected purchases from us. Accordingly, if the actual number of units that a customer orders from us on the subsequently issued purchase order differs materially from the number of units in respect of which we instructed our 14 Table of Contents manufacturer to procure component parts, we might be unable to obtain adequate quantities of components in time to meet our customers’ binding delivery requirements or, alternatively, we might accumulate excess inventory that we are unable to timely use or resell, if at all. Our operating results and financial condition have been in the past, are currently, and may in the future be materially adversely affected by our ability to manage our inventory levels and respond to short-term or unexpected shifts in customer demand as to quantities or the customer’s product delivery schedule. We depend on sole source suppliers for some components used in our products. The availability and sale of those finished products would be harmed if any of these suppliers is not able to meet our demand and production schedule and alternative suitable components are not available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our products contain a variety of components, some of which are procured from single suppliers. These components include both tooled parts and industry-standard parts, some of which are also used in cellular telephone handsets. From time to time, certain components used in our products have been in short supply worldwide or their anticipated commercial introduction has been delayed or their availability has been subsequently interrupted for reasons outside our control. If there is a shortage or interruption in the use of any such components, and we cannot obtain a commercially and technologically suitable substitute or make sufficient and timely design or other product modifications to permit the use of such a substitute, we may not be able to timely deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy our contractual obligations and particular revenue expectations. Moreover, even if we timely locate a substitute part (or locate the originally specified component from a parts broker) and its price materially exceeds our costed bill of materials, then our results of operations would be adversely affected. Third parties may claim that our products, or components within our products, infringe on their intellectual property rights. These claims may result in substantial costs, diversion of resources and management attention, harm to our reputation or interference with our current or prospective customer or supplier relations. Third parties may claim that we, or our customers or suppliers, have violated their intellectual property rights. Defending an infringement or misappropriation claim, for example, regardless of the merits or success of the claim, could result in us incurring substantial costs. These claims could also divert our resources and management attention and harm our reputation. These claims can be difficult and costly to assess and defend. A successful infringement claim related to our products could result in us becoming liable for damages and litigation costs. In addition, any finding that our products infringe (or in some instances, our customer’s reasonable conclusion that a bona fide infringement claim is likely to be made with respect to such products) could have other negative consequences. Those consequences could include prohibiting us from further use of the intellectual property, causing us to modify our product design, if possible, so it does not infringe, or causing us to have to license the intellectual property at issue, incurring licensing fees, some of which could be retroactive. Upon a finding of infringement, we or one of our suppliers may also have to develop a non-infringing alternative, which if available could be costly, and delay or prevent sales of affected products. In January 2009, two putative patent infringement claims were filed against certain of our customers. One case was filed against several wireless carriers, including Sprint Nextel Corporation and Verizon Wireless, Inc., as defendants alleging, among other things, that the defendants’ use, sale and importation of specified wireless modem cards for computers designed to be used in conjunction with the defendants’ cellular networks constitutes infringement of a U.S. patent allegedly owned by the plaintiff. The other case was filed against Sprint Spectrum, L.P. and Sprint Solutions, Inc. as defendants alleging generally that they have engaged in the manufacture, sale, import and/or use of products and/or processes, that constitutes infringement of U.S. patents allegedly owned by the plaintiff. We are currently evaluating these matters to determine the nature and extent of our obligation to indemnify and/or defend our customers against these lawsuits. 15 Table of Contents Our business depends on our continued ability to license necessary third-party technology, which we may not be able to do or it may be expensive to do so. We license technology from third parties for the development of our products. We have licensed from third parties, such as QUALCOMM, software, patents and other intellectual property for use in our products and from time to time we may elect or be required to license additional intellectual property. The primary license from QUALCOMM, for example, does not have a specified term and may be terminated by us or by QUALCOMM for cause or upon the occurrence of other specified events. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our third-party licenses or that these licenses or the technologies that are the subject of these licenses will not be the subject of dispute or litigation, or that additional third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The inability to maintain or obtain third-party licenses required for our products or to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to seek to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards, if such exists, or at greater cost, which could seriously harm our competitive position, revenue and prospects. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. In addition to our manufacturing activities in Asia, a significant portion of our sales activity has taken place in Europe. In addition, a significant portion of our research and development staff is located in Canada. Our international sales accounted for approximately 36% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008, 25% for the year ended December 31, 2007, and 37% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Although our experience in marketing, selling, distributing and manufacturing our products and services internationally is limited, we expect to further expand our international sales and marketing activities in the future. Consequently, we are subject to certain risks associated with doing business internationally, including: • difficulty in managing sales, research and development operations and post-sales logistics and support across these continents; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets, and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; • less effective protection of intellectual property and general exposure to different legal processes, standards and expectations; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • increased expenses associated with customizing products for different countries; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements resulting in unanticipated costs and delays; • longer collection cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • longer sales cycles; • international terrorism; • loss or damage to products in transit; and • international dock strikes or other transportation delays. Any disruption in our ability to obtain products from our foreign manufacturers or in our ability to conduct international operations and sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent we enter into contracts that are denominated in foreign currencies and do not adequately hedge that exposure, fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and foreign currencies may affect our operating results. A significant amount of our revenues are generated from sales agreements denominated in foreign currencies, and we expect to enter into additional such agreements as we expand our international customer base. 16 Table of Contents As a result, we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and we currently expect the absolute value of this exposure may increase in the future. In particular, fluctuations in the Euro currency may have a material impact on our future operating results and gross margins. We attempt to manage this risk, in part, by minimizing the effects of volatility on cash flows by identifying forecasted transactions exposed to these risks and using foreign exchange forward contracts. Since there is a high correlation between the hedging instruments and the underlying exposures, the gains and losses on these underlying exposures are generally offset by reciprocal changes in the value of the hedging instruments. We use derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not incur foreign currency losses or that foreign exchange forward contracts we may enter into to reduce the risk of such losses will be successful. Our products may contain errors or defects, which could prevent or decrease their market acceptance and lead to unanticipated costs or other adverse business consequences. Our products are technologically complex and must meet stringent industry, regulatory and customer requirements. We must develop our hardware and software products quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing and technologically advanced wireless communications market. Products as sophisticated as ours may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new models or versions are released. Our products may not be free from errors or defects at the time commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products, the loss of an existing or potential customer or the failure to obtain one, damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs, unanticipated warranty claims, and the payment of monetary damages to our customers. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and may fall short of or exceed the expectations of securities analysts, investors or management. If this occurs, the market price of our stock could fluctuate, in some cases materially. The following factors may cause fluctuations in our operating results: • Decreases in revenue or increases in operating expenses. We budget our operating expenses based on anticipated sales, and a significant portion of our sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative costs are fixed, at least in the short term. If revenue decreases, due to pricing pressures or otherwise, or does not increase as planned and we are unable to reduce our operating costs quickly and sufficiently, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. • Product mix. The product mix of our sales affects profit margins in any given quarter. As our business evolves and the revenue from the product mix of our sales varies from quarter to quarter, our operating results will likely fluctuate in ways that might not be directly proportionate to the fluctuation in revenue. • New product introductions. As we introduce new products, the timing of these introductions within any given quarter will affect our quarterly operating results. We may have difficulty predicting the timing of new product introductions and the market acceptance of these new products. If products and services are introduced earlier or later than anticipated, or if market acceptance is unexpectedly high or low, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate unexpectedly. • Lengthy sales cycle. The length of time between the date of initial contact with a potential customer and the execution of and product delivery under a contract may take several months or longer, and is subject to delays or interruptions over which we have little or no control. The sale of our products is subject to delays from, among other things, our customers’ budgeting, product testing and vendor approval mechanics, and competitive evaluation processes that typically accompany significant information technology purchasing decisions. As a result, our ability to anticipate the timing and volume of sales to specific customers is limited, and the delay or failure to complete one or more large transactions could cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. 17 Table of Contents • Foreign currency. We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In particular, fluctuations in the Euro currency may have a material impact on our future operating results and gross margins. Our attempts to minimize the effects of volatility in foreign currencies on cash flows may not be successful. Due to these and other factors, our results of operations may fluctuate substantially in the future and quarter-to-quarter comparisons may not be reliable indicators of future operating or share price performance. We may not be able to maintain and expand our business if we are not able to hire, retain and manage additional qualified personnel. Our success in the future depends in part on the continued contribution of our executive, technical, engineering, sales, marketing, operations and administrative personnel. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel in the wireless communications industry, including software and hardware engineers, is highly competitive. Although we may enter into employment agreements with members of our senior management and other key personnel in the future, currently only Peter Leparulo, the Company’s Executive Chairman, is bound by an employment agreement. If we are not able to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or if we experience delays in hiring required personnel, particularly qualified engineers, we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we review and intend to continue to review, acquisition opportunities that we believe would be advantageous or complementary to the development of our business. Accordingly, we may acquire businesses, assets, or technologies in the future. If we make any acquisitions, we could take any or all of the following actions, any one of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or share price: • use a substantial portion of our available cash; • incur substantial debt, which may not be available to us on favorable terms and may adversely affect our liquidity; • issue equity or equity-based securities that would dilute existing stockholders’ percentage ownership; • assume contingent liabilities; and • take substantial charges in connection with acquired assets. Acquisitions also entail numerous other risks, including: difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, products, technologies and personnel; unanticipated costs; diversion of management’s attention from existing operations; adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and potential loss of key employees from either our existing business or the acquired organization. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business and operating results. Any changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may cause adverse fluctuations in our reported results of operations or affect how we conduct our business. A change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements, taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation rules have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. The change to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the need for us to modify a current tax position may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to develop products that comply with applicable government regulations. Our products must comply with government regulations. For example, in the United States, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, regulates many aspects of communications devices, including radiation of electromagnetic energy, biological safety and rules for devices to be connected to telephone networks. In addition to the federal government, some states have adopted regulations applicable to our products. Radio frequency devices, which include our modems, must be approved by obtaining equipment authorization from the FCC prior to being offered for sale. Regulatory requirements in Canada, Europe, Asia and other jurisdictions must also be met. Additionally, we cannot anticipate the effect that changes in domestic or foreign government regulations may have on our ability to develop and sell products in the future. Failure to comply with existing or evolving government regulations or to obtain timely regulatory approvals or certificates for our products could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements. Our management is responsible for maintaining disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our reports to the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial and accounting officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our management assessed the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2008 and identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to revenue recognition cutoff in non-standard and modified sales transactions. Our management has taken measures to remediate the identified material weakness and, as of December 31, 2008, concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that creates a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We cannot give any assurance that other material weaknesses will not arise as a result of our failure to maintain adequate disclosure controls and procedures or circumvention of those controls and procedures. Additionally, our controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent irregularities, identify irregularities or facilitate a fair presentation of our financial statements or reports we file with the SEC. A material weakness could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Failure to satisfy the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market could result in our common stock being delisted, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Timely filing of annual and periodic reports with the SEC is one requirement for continued listing under the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. In 2008, we received two staff determination letters from The Nasdaq Stock Market stating that our common stock was subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Global Select Market as a result of our failure to file with the SEC, by the required deadlines, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31 and June 30, 2008. We appealed Nasdaq’s determinations and were granted extensions to file these quarterly reports. During the extension periods, our common stock continued to be listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. We filed our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31 and June 30, 2008 during the extension periods. In November 2008, we received notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market confirming that we had regained compliance with all requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. If we fail to meet listing requirements again in the future, there can be no assurance that our common stock will not be delisted. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market, it would be traded over-the-counter, more commonly known as OTC. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated 19 Table of Contents with transactions in securities traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than securities traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Accordingly, our common stock would be less liquid than it would otherwise be, and the value of our common stock could decrease. We are currently party to litigation that could be costly to defend and distracting to management. As of the date of this report, two putative securities class action lawsuits have been filed on behalf of persons who allegedly purchased our common stock between February 5, 2007 and August 19, 2008. One lawsuit names the Company and certain of our current and former officers as defendants. The other lawsuit names the Company, certain of our current and former officers and the members of our Audit Committee as defendants. The complaints allege generally that we issued materially false and misleading statements during the relevant time period regarding our financial results and the nature and extent of the accounting review conducted by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors into the Company’s revenue cut-off procedures, internal control and accounting related to certain customer contracts. Also as of the date of this report, we have been named as a nominal defendant in three purported shareholder derivative lawsuits filed in California state court. The complaints also name as defendants certain of our current and former officers and directors. The complaints allege claims for breach of fiduciary duties, unjust enrichment, abuse of control and gross mismanagement, in each case for the period from February 2007 to the date on which each complaint was filed. The plaintiffs allege that the Company misrepresented its financial results by failing to disclose that it recognized certain revenues in violation of generally accepted accounting principles and the Company’s revenue cut-off procedures. Additionally, the plaintiffs allege that the Company misrepresented the status of the accounting review conducted by the Audit Committee. Additional litigation may be initiated against us based on the alleged false statements at issue in the pending litigation. We cannot predict the outcome of the existing lawsuits or the likelihood that further proceedings will be instituted against us. The cost of defending against these lawsuits or any future lawsuits may be high, and these legal proceedings may also result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention away from our business. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any legal proceeding, we may be required to make payments to third parties that could harm our business or financial results. The current global credit crisis may cause the securities in our investment portfolio to decline in value or affect the liquidity of these securities, which may have a material adverse impact on our ability to support our working capital needs. Our ability to support our working capital needs depends, in part, on our available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We do not currently have a revolving credit facility or similar loan agreement. As a result, any significant decrease in the value of the securities in our investment portfolio or impairment in the liquidity of these securities may materially adversely impact our ability to support our working capital needs. As of December 31, 2008, we held cash equivalents and marketable securities aggregating $143.2 million, including $68.7 million of money market funds and $65.5 million of asset-backed securities, commercial paper, corporate debentures and bonds, and government agency obligations. Continuation or a worsening of the current global credit crisis could cause the securities in our investment portfolio to decline in value or affect the liquidity of these investments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 20 Table of Contents 