Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are inherent limitations in all control systems and failure of our controls and procedures to detect error or fraud could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of our controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons or by collusion of two or more persons. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its intended goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with its policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection. Our reserve estimates may turn out to be incorrect if the assumptions upon which these estimates are based are inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projected future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data and standardized measures set forth herein represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact way and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production data acquired subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revising such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Further, the estimated future net revenues from proved reserves and the present value thereof are based upon certain assumptions, including geologic success, prices, future production levels and costs that may not prove correct over time. Predictions of future production levels and future operating costs are subject to great uncertainty, and the meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have fluctuated widely. The present value, discounted at 10%, of the pre-tax future net cash flows attributable to our net proved reserves included in this report should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the present value, discounted at 10%, of the pre-tax future net cash flows attributable to our net proved reserves on the average oil and natural gas prices during the 12-month period before the ending date of the period covered by this report determined as an unweighted, arithmetic average of the first-day-of the-month price for each month within such period, adjusted for quality and transportation. The costs to produce the reserves remain constant at the costs prevailing on the date of the estimate. 17 Table of Contents Actual current and future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which the SEC requires us to use in calculating our discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on our cost of capital from time to time and/or the risks associated with our business. Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations. We compete with numerous other companies in virtually all facets of our business. Our competitors in development, exploration, acquisitions and production include major integrated oil and natural gas companies as well as numerous independents, including many that have significantly greater resources. Therefore, competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than the financial or personnel resources of the Company permit. We also compete for the materials, equipment and services that are necessary for the exploration, development and operation of our properties. Our ability to increase reserves in the future will be dependent on our ability to select and acquire suitable prospects for future exploration and development. Factors that affect our ability to compete in the marketplace include: • our access to the capital necessary to drill wells and acquire properties; • our ability to acquire and analyze seismic, geological and other information relating to a property; • our ability to retain the personnel necessary to properly evaluate seismic and other information relating to a property; • our ability to procure materials, equipment and services required to explore, develop and operate our properties; and • our ability to access pipelines, and the locations of facilities used to produce and transport oil and natural gas production. Factors beyond our control affect our ability to effectively market production and may ultimately affect our financial results. The ability to market oil and natural gas depends on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • the extent of domestic production and imports of oil and natural gas; • the availability of pipeline capacity, including facilities owned and operated by third parties; • the proximity of natural gas production to those natural gas pipelines; • the effects of inclement weather; • the demand for oil and natural gas by utilities and other end users; • the availability of alternative fuel sources; • state and federal regulations of oil and natural gas marketing and transportation; and • federal regulation of natural gas sold or transported in interstate commerce. Because of these factors, we may be unable to market all of our oil and natural gas that we produce. In addition, we may be unable to obtain favorable prices for the oil and natural gas we produce. Our derivative transactions may limit our gains and expose us to other risks. We enter into transactions with derivative instruments from time to time to manage our exposure to commodity price risks. These transactions limit our potential gains if commodity prices rise above the levels established by our derivative instruments. These transactions may also expose us to other risks of financial losses, for example, if our 18 Table of Contents production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a derivative instrument or if a counterparty to our derivative instrument fails to perform the contracts. A decrease in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Energy commodity prices in general, and our regional prices in particular, have been historically highly volatile, and such high levels of volatility are expected to continue in the future. We cannot accurately predict the market prices that we will receive for the sale of our natural gas, condensate, or oil production. Oil and natural gas prices are subject to a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as large fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas and market uncertainty. These factors include but are not limited to weather conditions in the United States, the condition of the United States economy, the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, governmental regulation, political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere, the foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the price of foreign oil and natural gas imports and the availability of alternate fuel sources and transportation interruption. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil or natural gas could have an adverse effect on the carrying value of our proved reserves, borrowing capacity, our ability to obtain additional capital, and the Company’s revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations. Volatile oil and natural gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and divestiture and often cause disruption in the market for oil and natural gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and development and exploitation projects. If the United States experiences a sustained economic downturn, natural gas prices may fall, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The unprecedented disruption in the U.S. and international credit markets in 2008 resulted in a rapid deterioration in the worldwide economy and tightening of the financial markets. The outlook for the economy in 2010 is uncertain. The current global credit and economic environment has reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in significantly lower natural gas prices than in earlier periods. A sustained reduction in the prices we receive for our natural gas production could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, any worsening of conditions in the credit and equity markets could increase our financing costs and limit our financial flexibility. Any worsening of domestic and global economic conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Compliance with environmental and other government regulations could be costly and could negatively impact our production. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may: • require that we acquire permits before commencing drilling or installing equipment and infrastructure needed to market production from our properties; • restrict the substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas; and • require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells. Under these laws and regulations or under the common law, the Company could be liable for personal injury and clean-up costs and other environmental and property damages, as well as administrative, civil and criminal penalties. The Company could also be affected by more stringent laws and regulations adopted in the future, including any related to climate change and greenhouse gases. We maintain limited insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages, but do not maintain insurance coverage for the full potential liability that 19 Table of Contents could be caused by accidental environmental damages. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability or may be required to cease production from properties in the event of environmental damages. A significant percentage of our operations are conducted on federal and state lands. These operations are subject to a wide variety of regulations as well as other permits and authorizations which must be obtained from and issued by state and federal agencies. To conduct these operations, we may be required to file applications for permits, seek agency authorizations and comply with various other statutory and regulatory requirements. Complying with any of these requirements may adversely affect our ability to complete our drilling programs at the costs and in the time periods anticipated. Climate Change Legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gasses” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and gas we produce. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Accordingly, the EPA has proposed two sets of regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for greenhouse gas emissions from certain stationary sources. In addition, on October 30, 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. Also, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (“ACESA”), which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane. ACESA would require a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over an 80% reduction of such emissions by 2050. Under this legislation, the EPA would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances authorizing emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. These reductions would be expected to cause the cost of allowances to escalate significantly over time. The net effect of ACESA will be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions and the Obama Administration has indicated its support for legislation to reduce greenhouse emissions through an emission allowance system. At the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Significant physical effects of climatic change have the potential to damage our facilities, disrupt our production activities and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In an interpretative guidance on climate change disclosures, the SEC indicates that climate change could have an effect on the severity of weather (including hurricanes and floods), sea levels, the arability of farmland, and water availability and quality. If such effects were to occur, our exploration and production operations have the potential to be adversely affected. Potential adverse effects could include damages to our facilities from powerful winds or rising waters in low-lying areas, disruption of our production activities either because of climate-related damages to our facilities in our costs of operation potentially arising from such climatic effects, less efficient or non-routine operating practices necessitated by climate effects or increased costs for insurance coverage in the aftermath of such effects. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect affect on our operations by disrupting the transportation or process-related services provided by midstream companies, service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change. 20 Table of Contents Federal legislation and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives are currently considering bills entitled, the “Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act,” or the “FRAC Act,” that would amend the federal SDWA to repeal an exemption from regulation for hydraulic fracturing. If enacted, the FRAC Act would amend the definition of “underground injection” in the SDWA to encompass hydraulic fracturing activities. If enacted, such a provision could require hydraulic fracturing operations to meet permitting and financial assurance requirements, adhere to certain construction specifications, fulfill monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping obligations, and meet plugging and abandonment requirements. The FRAC Act also proposes to require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. The adoption of any future federal or state laws or implementing regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. The adoption of derivatives legislation or regulations related to derivative contracts could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Legislation has been proposed in Congress and by the Treasury Department to impose restrictions on certain transactions involving derivatives, which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. Under proposed legislation, OTC derivative dealers and other major OTC derivative market participants could be subjected to substantial supervision and regulation. The legislation generally would expand the power of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), to regulate derivative transactions related to energy commodities, including oil and natural gas, to mandate clearance of derivative contracts through registered derivative clearing organizations, and to impose conservative capital and margin requirements and strong business conduct standards on OTC derivative transactions. The CFTC has proposed regulations that would implement speculative limits on trading and positions in certain commodities. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress may act on derivatives legislation or the CFTC may issue new regulations, any laws or regulations that may be adopted that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements relating to, or to additional restrictions on, our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activity. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been disrupted and volatile due to a variety of factors. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets and the availability of funds from those markets is unpredictable. Although we have been able to successfully raise money in the current economic climate, we may not be successful in the future. In addition, lending counterparties under existing revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. Moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We may not be able to replace our reserves or generate cash flows if we are unable to raise capital. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to develop our existing reserves and to discover new oil and gas reserves. Our ability to continue exploration and development of our properties and to replace reserves may be dependent upon our ability to continue to raise significant additional financing, including debt financing or obtain other potential arrangements with industry partners in lieu of raising financing. Any arrangements that may be entered into could be expensive to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital in light of factors such as the market demand for our securities, the state of financial markets for independent oil and 21 Table of Contents gas companies (including the markets for debt), oil and natural gas prices and general market conditions. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our capital budget. We expect to continue using our bank credit facility to borrow funds to supplement our available cash flow. The loan commitment and aggregate amount of money we can borrow under the credit facility and from other sources is revised from time to time based on certain restrictive covenants. A change in our ability to meet the restrictive covenants might limit our ability to borrow. If this occurred, we may have to sell assets or seek substitute financing. We can make no assurances that we would be successful in selling assets or arranging substitute financing. For a description of the bank credit facility and its principal terms and conditions, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our operations may be interrupted by severe weather or drilling restrictions, particularly in the Rocky Mountain region. Our operations are conducted primarily in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States, and will be conducted to some extent in north-central Pennsylvania area of the Appalachian Basin. The weather in these areas can be extreme and can cause interruption in our exploration and production operations. Severe weather can result in damage to our facilities entailing longer operational interruptions and significant capital investment. Likewise, our operations are subject to disruption from winter storms and severe cold, which can limit operations involving fluids and impair access to our facilities. Unless we are able to replace reserves which we have produced, our cash flows and production will decrease over time. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Without successful exploration, development or acquisition activities, our reserves and production will decline. We can give no assurance that we will be able to find, develop or acquire additional reserves at acceptable costs. We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including fire, explosion, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, and discharges of toxic gases. The occurrence of any of these events with respect to any property we own or operate (in whole or in part) could have a material adverse impact on us. We and the operators of our properties maintain insurance in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that management believes to be reasonable. However, insurance coverage is not always economically feasible and is not obtained to cover all types of operational risks. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. There are risks associated with our drilling activity that could impact our results of operations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with drilling for, and production and transportation of, oil and natural gas. These risks include the necessity of spending large amounts of money for identification and acquisition of properties and for drilling and completion of wells. In the drilling of exploratory or development wells, failures and losses may occur before any deposits of oil or natural gas are found. The presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, blow-outs or accidents may cause such activity to be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our investment in such activity and possible liabilities. If oil or natural gas is encountered, there can be no assurance that it can be produced in quantities sufficient to justify the cost of continuing such operations or that it can be marketed satisfactorily. 22 Table of Contents Our decision to drill a prospect is subject to a number of factors which may alter our drilling schedule or our plans to drill at all. This report includes certain descriptions of our future drilling plans with respect to our prospects. A prospect is an area in which our geoscientists have identified what they believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be indications of hydrocarbons. Our prospects are in various stages of review. Whether or not we ultimately drill a prospect depends on the following factors: • receipt of additional seismic data or reprocessing of existing data; • material changes in oil or natural gas prices; • the costs and availability of drilling equipment; • success or failure of wells drilled in similar formations or which would use the same production facilities; • availability and cost of capital; • changes in the estimates of costs to drill or complete wells; • the approval of partners to participate in the drilling of certain wells; • our ability to attract other industry partners to acquire a portion of the working interest to reduce exposure to costs and drilling risks; • decisions of our joint working interest owners; and • regulatory requirements, including those based on the BLM’s interpretation of an EIS and the results of the permitting process. We will continue to gather data about our prospects, and it is possible that additional information may cause us to alter our drilling schedule or determine that a prospect should not be pursued at all. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties. We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. A separate cost center is maintained for expenditures applicable to each country in which we conduct exploration and/or production activities. Under such method, the net book value of properties on a country-by-country basis, less related deferred income taxes, may not exceed a calculated “ceiling.” The ceiling is the estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and gas properties, discounted at 10% per year. Discounted future net revenues are estimated using oil and natural gas spot prices based on the average price during the preceding 12-month period determined as an unweighted, arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, except for changes which are fixed and determinable by existing contracts. The net book value is compared to the ceiling on a quarterly basis. The excess, if any, of the net book value above the ceiling is required to be written off as an expense. Under SEC full cost accounting rules, any write-off recorded may not be reversed even if higher oil and natural gas prices increase the ceiling applicable to future periods. Future price decreases could result in reductions in the carrying value of such assets and an equivalent charge to earnings. We have limited control over activities conducted on properties we do not operate. We own interests in properties that are operated by third parties. The success and timing of drilling and other development activities on our non-operated properties depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. Because we have only a limited ability to influence and control the operations of our non-operated properties, we can give no assurances that we will realize our targeted returns with respect to those properties. We may fail to fully identify problems with any properties we acquire. We acquired a portion of our acreage position in Pennsylvania through property acquisitions and acreage trades, and we may acquire additional acreage in Pennsylvania or other regions in the future. Although we conduct a 23 Table of Contents review of properties we acquire which we believe is consistent with industry practices, we can give no assurance that we have identified or will identify all existing or potential problems associated with such properties or that we will be able to mitigate any problems we do identify. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains or incorporates by reference forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except for statements of historical facts, all statements included in this document, including those statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words “believe”, “expects”, “anticipates”, “intends”, “estimates”, “projects”, “target”, “goal”, “plans”, “objective”, “should”, or similar expressions or variations on such expressions are forward-looking statements. The Company can give no assurances that the assumptions upon which such forward-looking statements are based will prove to be correct. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding: • our oil and natural gas reserve quantities, and the discounted present value of those reserves; • the amount and nature of our capital expenditures; • drilling of wells; • the timing and amount of future production and operating costs; • business strategies and plans of management; and • prospect development and property acquisitions. Some of the risks which could affect our future results and could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: • any future global economic downturn; • general economic conditions, including the availability of credit and access to existing lines of credit; • the volatility of oil and natural gas prices; • the uncertainty of estimates of oil and natural gas reserves; • the impact of competition; • the availability and cost of seismic, drilling and other equipment; • operating hazards inherent in the exploration for and production of oil and natural gas; • difficulties encountered during the exploration for and production of oil and natural gas; • difficulties encountered in delivering oil and natural gas to commercial markets; • changes in customer demand and producers’ supply; • the uncertainty of our ability to attract capital and obtain financing on favorable terms; • compliance with, or the effect of changes in, the extensive governmental regulations regarding the oil and natural gas business, including those related to climate change and greenhouse gases; • actions of operators of our oil and natural gas properties; and • weather conditions. The information contained in this report, including the information set forth under the heading “Risk Factors,” identifies additional factors that could affect our operating results and performance. We urge you to carefully consider these factors and the other cautionary statements in this report. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we have no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 