ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A significant portion of our total net sales are dependent upon our Move Free, MegaRed and Airborne products, and a significant decrease in sales of these products would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Move Free, MegaRed and Airborne products account for a significant portion of our total net sales. We cannot assure you that our Move Free, MegaRed or Airborne products will maintain sales or margin levels over time. A significant decrease in Move Free, MegaRed or Airborne sales would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Two of our customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales, and the loss of, or decreased purchases by, one or both of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our largest customers are Costco and WalMart (including Sam's Club). Combined, these two customers accounted for 66%, 73% and 72%, respectively, of total net sales for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. We do not have agreements to supply products for most of our sales to Costco and WalMart and, therefore, we cannot assure you that either Costco or WalMart will continue to be significant customers in the future. The loss of either Costco or WalMart as a customer, or a significant reduction in purchase volume by Costco or WalMart, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our products and any similar products distributed by other companies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We believe sales of our products are highly dependent on consumer perception of the safety, quality and efficacy of our products as well as similar or other nutritional supplement products distributed and sold by other companies. Consumer perception of our products can be significantly influenced by scientific research or findings, regulatory investigations, litigation, national media attention, and other publicity regarding our products and other nutritional supplements, including publicity regarding the legality, safety or quality of particular ingredients or products or the nutritional supplement market in general. From time to time, there is unfavorable publicity, scientific research or findings, litigation, regulatory proceedings and other media attention regarding our industry. There has recently been unfavorable publicity regarding FDA action against nutritional supplement companies based on adverse events alleged to be caused by products sold by these companies. In recent years, there has also been unfavorable publicity regarding items imported from China, where we source a large amount of our raw materials. There can be no assurance that future publicity, scientific research or findings, litigation, regulatory proceedings, or media attention will be favorable to the nutritional supplement market or any particular product or ingredient, or consistent with earlier publicity, scientific research or 10findings, litigation, regulatory proceedings or media attention. Adverse publicity, scientific research or findings, litigation, regulatory proceedings or media attention, whether or not accurate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and may lead to increased scrutiny of our operations by federal, state or other regulatory agencies, requiring further management attention and potential legal fees and other expenses. In addition, adverse publicity, reports or other media attention regarding the safety, quality, or efficacy of our products or ingredients or nutritional supplement products or ingredients in general, or associating the consumption of our products or ingredients or nutritional supplement products or ingredients in general with illness or other adverse effects, whether or not scientifically supported or accurate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry, in which increased competition and pricing pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The market for the sale of nutritional supplements is highly competitive. Many of our principal competitors have greater financial and other resources available to them and possess extensive manufacturing, distribution and marketing capabilities. Other competitors are more vertically integrated than we are. Additional national or international companies may enter or increase their presence (through acquisition or organic growth) in our industry. Private label products of our customers, the number of which in recent years has significantly increased in certain nutritional supplement categories, also create significant pricing pressure and competition with our products. Because nutritional supplements can be purchased in various channels of distribution, we also compete with products sold outside of the mass market retail channel, including health food stores, direct sales, direct mail and internet distribution channels. Increased competition, including expansion of private label products, or increased pricing pressure, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Among other factors, competition among manufacturers, distributors and retailers of nutritional supplements is based upon price. Because of the high degree of price competition, we generally have not been able to pass along increases in raw material prices to our customers. If one or more of our competitors significantly reduce their prices in order to gain market share (particularly relating to the joint care and omega-3 categories), or if raw material prices increase and we are unable to pass along the increased cost to our customers (particularly relating to the joint care and omega-3 categories), our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Increased private label bidding activity could negatively impact net sales and profit margins, potentially significantly. We manufacture and distribute private label (store brand) products for certain retail customers where we sell branded products. There has been a significant increase in bidding activity for the manufacture of private label nutritional supplements distributed in mass market retail accounts since January 2010. The competitive bidding activity is expected to continue. As a result of the bidding process, we no longer manufacture certain products that represented a significant portion of our private label business. We expect to continue to participate in the bidding processes for products we believe will contribute to the success of our business although we cannot predict how many new products we will win or how many existing products we will lose. The increased private label bidding activity could negatively impact our sales and profit margins. Increases in prices of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Raw materials account for a significant portion of our manufacturing costs. We have encountered material fluctuations in the pricing of key raw materials in the past. Historically, we generally have not been able to pass along raw material price increases. Significant increases in raw material prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We are dependent on third-party suppliers. We acquire all of our raw materials for the manufacture of our products from third parties. We cannot assure you that suppliers will provide the raw materials we need in the quantities requested, at a price we are willing to pay or that meet our quality standards and labeling requirements. This could cause product shortages and back orders, damaging our reputation and resulting in a loss of net sales and profitability. We typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers. However, we have long-term supply and/or license agreements with third-party suppliers for key ingredients used in our Move Free, MegaRed, Digestive Advantage, Sustenex and Airborne products. While the contracts provide for the continuing supply of these ingredients, we cannot assure you that the suppliers will continue to supply these ingredients in the quantities or on the terms we require, or at all. See “Item 1 - Business - Intellectual Property.” 11In addition, from time to time, we enter into forward purchase commitments regarding certain raw materials. We cannot assure you that the suppliers will supply the raw materials in accordance with the terms of the forward purchase commitments, or at all. For certain ingredients, we do not have alternate suppliers. Any significant failure to supply or changes in the material terms of supply by the Move Free, MegaRed, Digestive Advantage, Sustenex and Airborne key ingredient suppliers or our other raw materials suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to potential delays in the delivery of raw materials caused by events beyond our control, including, among other factors, strikes or labor disputes, transportation interruptions, capacity issues at supplier factories, weather-related events, natural disasters or other catastrophic events and changes in government regulations. Any significant delay in or disruption of the supply of raw materials could, among other things, substantially increase the cost of such materials, require reformulation or repackaging of products, require the qualification of new suppliers, or result in our inability to meet customer demands for certain products. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We acquire a significant amount of key ingredients for our products from foreign suppliers, and may be negatively affected by the risks associated with international trade and importation issues. We acquire a significant amount of key ingredients for a number of our products from suppliers outside of the United States. Accordingly, the acquisition of these ingredients is subject to the risks generally associated with importing raw materials, including, among other factors, delays in shipments, changes in economic and political conditions, quality assurance, nonconformity to specifications or laws and regulations, tariffs, trade disputes and foreign currency fluctuations. While we have a supplier certification program and periodically audit and inspect our suppliers' facilities both in the United States and internationally, we cannot assure you that raw materials received from suppliers outside of the United States will conform to all specifications, laws and regulations. There have in the past been quality and safety issues in our industry with certain items imported from the Asia Pacific region. We may incur additional expenses and experience shipment delays due to preventative measures adopted by the foreign and United States governments, our suppliers and our company. In addition, the discovery of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, commonly referred to as “mad cow disease,” in a country from which we obtain a significant amount of our raw materials (particularly related to the joint care category) derived from bovine sources could prevent us from purchasing such raw materials in the required quantities, at an acceptable price or at all. The occurrence of any of the foregoing, particularly with respect to raw materials needed for our joint care products, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property and proprietary techniques or our infringement of others' intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Although the nutritional supplement industry has historically been characterized by products with naturally occurring ingredients in capsule or tablet form, it has become more common for suppliers and competitors to apply for patents or develop proprietary technologies and processes. Although we make efforts not to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our intellectual property licensors. Such claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, which we may be unable to obtain on terms acceptable to us or at all. These claims could also be costly, cause reputational injury and divert the attention of management and key personnel. To the extent that these developments prevent us from, or increase the cost of, offering or supplying competitive products or our licensed proprietary ingredients in the marketplace, or result in litigation or threatened litigation against us related to alleged or actual infringement of third-party rights, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We protect our intellectual property related to investments in research and development by relying on trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements with third parties who have access to information about our research and development activities. When we license our trademarks, proprietary ingredients or other intellectual property from a third party, we typically have contractual rights to require the licensor to adequately protect our intellectual property interests. Nevertheless, we cannot guarantee that such measures will be sufficient to protect our interests. Our Move Free, MegaRed, Digestive Advantage and Sustenex products contain key ingredients, the rights for which we license from third-party suppliers pursuant to long-term supply and/or license agreements. Our suppliers have patents and patents pending relating to the key ingredients, and have granted us exclusive and non-exclusive rights to market and sell products containing the ingredients in certain territories and classes of trade. However, we 12cannot assure you that our suppliers will prevail in preventing third parties from selling the key ingredients in competing products at lower cost. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 1 - Business - Manufacturing and Product Quality” and “Item 1 - Business - Intellectual Property.”In addition, we have registered, or applied for, over 70 trademarks in the United States for our Schiff, Move Free, MegaRed, Airborne and Tiger's Milk brands and certain of our products and slogans, and have rights for trademarks material to our business in certain countries outside of North America. Our policy is to pursue registrations for certain trademarks associated with our key products (though we continue to rely on common law trademark rights to protect our unregistered marks) and to protect our trademarks against infringement. However, there can be no assurance that infringing products could not be marketed without our knowledge or consent. Further, to the extent we rely upon foreign or common law protections for our marks, we may not be provided with as extensive protection as is afforded by a United States federal registration. If we are unable to effectively protect our trademark rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 1 - Business - Intellectual Property.” Our international sales expose us to certain risks associated with international commerce which could adversely affect our business. Our international sales efforts are comprised of selling products, particularly our joint care products, from the United States on an export basis to retail customers or distributors abroad. Operating in international markets exposes us to certain risks, including, among others, difficulty in understanding and complying with foreign regulations, changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may further limit our ability to sell certain products or ingredients in certain countries, the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions or increased tariffs, difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations, difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable, potentially longer payment cycles, and political instability. We are often required to reformulate our products before commencing distribution in a given country. We must comply with various and changing local labeling, customs and other regulations. Trademark rights are often difficult to obtain and enforce in countries outside the United States. There is also no assurance that we will be able to obtain and retain the necessary permits and approvals required for our international efforts. The importance of these and other risks relating to exporting goods to foreign countries increases as our export business grows and expands. Our inability to successfully launch products and maintain sales (especially in the joint care and omega-3 categories) outside of the United States while maintaining the integrity of the products sold and complying with local regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to appropriately respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products or our failure to develop and/or sustain new products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We believe our ability to grow in existing markets is partially dependent upon our ability to introduce new and innovative products and product enhancements. The development and commercialization process, particularly relating to innovative products, is both time-consuming and costly and involves a high degree of business risk. Although we seek to introduce additional products each year, the success of new products or product enhancements is subject to a number of variables, including developing products that will appeal to customers, be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, be priced competitively, be differentiated from those of our competitors, and comply with applicable regulations. The inability to successfully implement or maintain marketing and spending programs, a consistent supply of raw material, competitive claims or strategic initiatives in support of our branded products or product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our efforts to develop and introduce new products or existing product innovations will be successful, that customers will accept new products, or, if accepted, that customers will continue to sell the new products. The failure to successfully launch, gain distribution or maintain distribution for new product offerings or product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.If we experience material product liability claims, FDA action or other litigation, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer and distributor of products designed to be ingested, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims, FDA action and litigation if our products are alleged to have caused loss or injury. In addition, the manufacture and sale of our products involve the risk of injury to consumers due to tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination. Our products consist of vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are classified as dietary supplements or foods, and generally are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the United States. Some of our products contain ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these, other of our ingredients, or combinations of ingredients could occur. We have been, 13and in the future may be, subject to various product liability claims, including, among others, that our products caused injury or illness, that our products include inadequate instructions for use, or that our products include inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects or interactions with other substances. Recently, the FDA has taken a more aggressive approach to enforcement. A product liability claim or FDA action against us could result in increased costs, could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and consumers, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We are party to various lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business and may become party to others. It is possible that future litigation could arise, or that developments could occur in existing litigation, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance coverage to cover losses we may incur. We maintain insurance relating to the operation of our business, including, among other coverages, property, general and product liability, workers' compensation and directors' and officers' liability policies. However, our insurance coverage is subject to large individual claim deductibles for certain policies, individual claim and aggregate policy limits, exclusions and other terms and conditions. In addition, our current product liability coverage excludes claims relating to certain categories of products and products that contain certain ingredients. Certain damages in litigation, such as punitive damages, also are generally not covered by insurance. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover our losses, that future insurance coverage will not contain additional exclusions or limitations, that we will be able to continue to obtain insurance coverage, or that insurance coverage will be available at an economically reasonable cost. In the event that we do not have adequate or any insurance, product liability claims, litigation or other losses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to comply with existing or new regulations, both in the United States and abroad, or an adverse action regarding product formulation, claims or advertising could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business operations, including the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our products, are subject to regulation by various, federal, state and local government entities and agencies, particularly the FDA and FTC, in the United States as well as foreign entities and agencies. See “Item 1 - Business - Government Regulation.” From time to time we may be subject to challenges to our marketing, advertising or product claims in litigation or governmental, administrative or other regulatory proceedings. Failure to comply with applicable regulations or withstand such challenges could result in changes in product labeling, packaging, or advertising, product reformulations, discontinuation of our product by retailers, loss of market acceptance of the product by consumers, additional recordkeeping requirements, injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines, monetary settlements or criminal prosecution. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of our efforts to comply with applicable statutes and regulations, from time to time we have reformulated, eliminated or relabeled certain of our products and revised certain aspects of our sales, marketing and advertising programs. We cannot assure you that we will not have to make such changes or revisions in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.In June 2007, the FDA published extensive GMPs for dietary supplements. See “Item 1 - Business - Government Regulation.” The effective compliance date for companies like ours with fewer than 500 employees was June 22, 2009. While we do not currently expect the cost of ongoing compliance efforts to be material, we cannot assure you that, in complying with the GMPs, we will not incur substantial costs that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, or that our operations or those of our suppliers will be in compliance in all respects at all times. Additionally, there is a potential risk of increased audits as the FDA and other regulators seek to ensure compliance with the GMPs. In markets outside the United States, before commencing operations or marketing our products, we may be required to obtain approvals, licenses or certifications from a country's ministry of health or comparable agency. Approvals or licensing may be conditioned on reformulation of products or may be unavailable with respect to certain products or product ingredients. We must also comply with product labeling and packaging regulations that vary from country to country. Furthermore, the regulations of these countries may conflict with those in the United States and with each other. The cost of complying with these various and potentially conflicting regulations can be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We may also be subject to additional laws or regulations administered by federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities, the repeal or amendment of laws or regulations which we consider favorable, such as DSHEA, or more 14stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. Additional or more stringent legislation and regulations regarding the nutritional supplement industry have recently been proposed. We are unable to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, nor can we predict what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, would have on our business in the future. Any or all of these requirements and the related costs to comply with such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.If we experience product recalls or a significant amount of product returns, we may incur significant and unexpected costs, and our business reputation could be materially adversely affected. Manufacturers and distributors of products in our industry are sometimes subject to the recall or return of their products for a variety of reasons, including product defects, such as ingredient contamination, unintended harmful side effects or interactions with other ingredients, packaging safety and inadequate or inaccurate labeling disclosure. If any of our products are recalled due to an alleged product defect or for any other reason, we could be required to incur the unexpected expense of the recall and any legal proceedings that might arise in connection with the recall. We may lose a significant amount of sales and we may not be able to replace those sales. In addition, a product recall may require significant management attention. We acquire all of our raw materials for the manufacture of our products from third parties. In addition, certain products we sell are produced by third-party manufacturers. Although we have procedures in place for qualifying suppliers and contract manufacturers, and for testing raw materials and finished products, we cannot assure you that any quality, potency or contamination problems will be detected in time to avoid unforeseen product recalls, FDA action or lawsuits. Additionally, if one of our significant brands were subject to recall, the image of that brand and our company could be harmed. A recall for any of the foregoing reasons could lead to decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, product recalls may lead to increased scrutiny of our operations by federal, state or other regulatory agencies, requiring further management attention and potential legal fees and other expenses. We are dependent on a single manufacturing facility, and any material disruptions could adversely affect our business. We manufacture a significant amount of the products we sell at our manufacturing facility in Salt Lake City, Utah. Accordingly, we are highly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facility. Power failures, the breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, the improper installation or operation of equipment, workforce disruptions, natural or other disasters, or the failure to comply with laws or regulations or the requirements or directives of government agencies, including the FDA, could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While we do carry business interruption insurance, we cannot assure you that our coverage will be sufficient to cover losses from these types of business disruptions or that this insurance will continue to be available to us at an acceptable price, if at all. If we are unable to consummate successful strategic transactions in the future, or integrate businesses we acquire, our business could be adversely affected. An element of our strategy includes expanding our product offerings, gaining shelf space, enhancing business development and gaining access to new skills and other resources through strategic acquisitions, investments or other transactions when attractive opportunities arise. We cannot assure you that attractive transaction opportunities will be available to us, that we will be able to obtain financing for or otherwise consummate any transactions or that any transactions which are consummated will prove to be successful. Managing acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of Airborne, Inc. as well as any future acquisitions, entails numerous operational and financial risks, including: the anticipated financial performance and estimated cost savings and other synergies as a result of the acquisitions may not materialize; the inability to retain or replace key employees of any acquired businesses or hire enough qualified personnel to staff any new or expanded operations; the impairment of relationships with key customers of acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership of the acquired businesses; the exposure to federal, state, local and foreign tax liabilities in connection with any acquisition or the integration of any acquired businesses; the exposure to unknown liabilities; the fluctuation of quarterly and annual operating results due to higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; the combining of operations and personnel of acquired businesses with our own, which could be difficult and costly; and the risk of entering new markets.We are subject to FTC consent decrees and a number of state consent agreements which impose restrictions and obligations upon us and could have a material adverse effect on our business. On March 30, 2012, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Airborne, Inc., which is subject to an FTC consent decree entered into in 2008, and 32 consent agreements that settle lawsuits brought by individual state Attorneys General. The FTC consent decree and state consent agreements, among other things, prohibit certain product representations and advertising claims and impose specific reporting and recordkeeping obligations. In addition, we are subject to an FTC consent decree entered into in 2000 governing diet and weight loss claims and certain disease, safety and comparative 15health benefit claims. Any determination that Airborne has, or we have, violated these obligations could result in enforcement, including substantial monetary penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We are currently party to a $200.0 million credit facility, and may enter into other debt arrangements in the future, each of which may subject us to restrictive covenants which could limit our ability to operate our business. We are party to a $200.0 million credit facility that imposes various restrictions and covenants on us that limits our ability to pay dividends, enter into any mergers, consolidations or sales of property and incur additional debt. In the future, we may incur additional indebtedness through arrangements such as credit agreements or term loans that may also impose similar restrictions and covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy or comply with the provisions, covenants, financial tests and ratios of our existing credit facility or other debt arrangements we may enter into in the future. Our failure to satisfy or comply with such provisions, covenants, financial tests and ratios would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and fill key positions, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our continued success will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, many of whom are recent additions, and certain other key employees. The loss or limitation of the services of any of our key management employees, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Disruptions or failures in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, reliability and proper use of sophisticated and dependable information processing systems and management information technology. Our information technology systems are designed and selected in order to facilitate order entry and customer billing, maintain customer records, accurately track purchases, manage accounting, finance and manufacturing operations, generate reports, and provide customer service and technical support. A disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, computer viruses, cyber attacks, employee theft or misuse, power disruptions, natural disasters or accidents could cause breaches of data security and loss of critical data, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our security procedures, such as virus protection software and our business continuity planning, such as our disaster recovery policies and back-up systems, may not be adequate or implemented properly to fully address the adverse effect of such events, which could have a material adverse on our results of operations and financial condition.We are controlled by our principal stockholders. Weider Health and Fitness (“WHF”) owns all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, representing over 75% of the aggregate voting power of all outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, pursuant to a stockholders agreement entered into by WHF and a subsidiary of TPG Growth (“TPG”), the middle market buyout and growth platform of TPG, a global private investment firm, two TPG representatives were appointed to serve as directors on our Board of Directors and WHF agreed to take certain corporate actions only with the prior written consent of TPG. One of our directors also serves on the board of directors of WHF. Together, WHF and TPG are in a position to exercise control over us and to determine the outcome of all matters required to be submitted to stockholders for approval (except as otherwise provided by law or by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws) and otherwise to direct and control our operations. Accordingly, we cannot engage in any strategic transactions without the approval of WHF and TPG.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff.