ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Many factors could have an effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, industry, business and financial conditions. The factors described below represent our principal risks. Risks Related to Our Industry Our industry is affected by cyclical and global economic factors including the risk of a prolonged recession. Our financial results are substantially dependent upon overall economic conditions in the United States, in Europe and in Asia. A prolonged or a deepening recession in the United States, or globally, could substantially further decrease the demand for our products below already currently depressed levels and adversely affect our business. Many of our products are commodities, subject to cyclical fluctuations in supply and demand in both metal consuming industries and in construction. Metals industries have historically been vulnerable to significant declines in consumption and product pricing during prolonged periods of economic downturn such as at present. Likewise, the pace of construction activity has historically slowed significantly during economic downturns and is already at historically low levels today. Moreover, many of our customers rely on access to credit to adequately fund their operations or to finance construction projects, and the inability of our customers to access credit facilities has affected and may continue to adversely affect our business by reducing our sales, increasing our exposure to uncollectible customer accounts and reducing our profitability. Our business supports cyclical industries such as commercial and government construction, energy, metals service center, automotive, petrochemical and original equipment manufacturing. These industries may experience significant fluctuations in demand for our products based on economic conditions, energy prices, consumer demand and decisions by governments to either fund or not to fund infrastructure projects such as highways, bridges, schools, energy plants and airports. Many of these factors are beyond our control. As a result of the volatility in the industries we serve, we may have difficulty increasing or maintaining our level of sales or profitability. If the industries we serve continue to suffer a prolonged downturn, then our business may be further adversely affected. Imports of steel into the United States have in the past adversely affected, and may yet again adversely affect, U.S. steel prices, which could impact our sales, margins and profitability. Excessive imports of steel into the United States as a result of excess world supply, have in recent years exerted, and may again in the future, exert downward pressure on U.S. steel prices, even at currently low levels, and may reduce or may negatively affect our ability to increase our sales, margins, and profitability. U.S. steel producers compete with many foreign producers, including those in China. Competition from foreign producers is typically strong and is periodically exacerbated by weakening of the economies of certain foreign steelmaking countries. Greater steel exports to the United States tend to occur at depressed prices when steel producing countries experience periods of economic difficulty, decreased demand for steel products or excess capacity. In addition, we believe the downward pressure on, and periodically depressed levels of, U.S. steel prices in some recent years have been further exacerbated by imports of steel involving dumping and subsidy abuses by foreign steel producers. Some foreign steel producers are owned, controlled or subsidized by foreign governments. As a result, decisions by these producers with respect to their production, sales and pricing are often influenced to a greater degree by political and economic policy considerations than by prevailing market conditions, realities of the marketplace or consideration of profit or loss. However, while some tariffs and quotas are currently in effect for certain steel products imported from a number of countries that have been found to have been unfairly pricing steel imports 21 Table of Contents to the U.S., many of these are only short-lived. When such tariffs or duties expire or if others are further relaxed or repealed, or if relatively higher U.S. steel prices enable foreign steelmakers to export their steel products to the United States, even despite the presence of duties or tariffs, the resurgence of substantial imports of foreign steel could create downward pressure on U.S. steel prices. China's current steelmaking overcapacity coupled with a reduction or slowdown in China's steel consumption could have a material adverse effect on domestic and global steel pricing and could result in increased steel imports into the United States. A significant factor in the worldwide strengthening of steel pricing prior to the third quarter of 2008 was the explosive growth in Chinese steel consumption, which had until the past year or so vastly outpaced that country's capacity to produce steel in sufficient quantity to serve its internal demand. The shortage of Chinese domestic steel supply resulted not only in heightened Chinese demand for imported steel and other raw materials, with a consequent upward spiral in worldwide steel pricing, but also led to a rapid and significant expansion of steel production capacity in China. That, however, in addition to the existence of a large amount of outdated, inefficient and government subsidized production capacity, has resulted in a situation in which China's steel producing capacity currently substantially exceeds that country's demand for certain steel products. China became a net exporter of more than 40 million tons in 2007. Therefore, a combination of a slowdown in China's economic growth rate and its consumption of steel, coupled with its own expansion of steelmaking capacity, has caused a reduction in, and could result in a substantial further weakening of both domestic and global steel demand and steel pricing. And, should Chinese steelmaking capacity further increase or its demand weaken, China might not only remain a net exporter of steel but many Asian and European steel producers whose steel output previously fed China's steel import needs could find their way into the U.S. market, through increased steel imports, thus either causing a erosion of margins or negatively impacting our ability to increase our prices. The worldwide economic downturn and difficult conditions in the global capital and credit markets have affected and may continue to adversely affect our business and our industry, as well as the industries of many of our customers and suppliers, which are also cyclical in nature. Some of the markets in which our end-use customers participate, such as the automotive, consumer products, original equipment and construction industries, are cyclical in nature, thus posing a risk to us which is beyond our control. These markets are highly competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use markets, and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and pricing of our products. Recent declines in consumer and business confidence and spending, together with severe reductions in the availability and cost of credit, as well as volatility in the capital and credit markets, have adversely affected the business and economic environment in which we operate and the profitability of our business. We are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key suppliers and customers. In particular, we are exposed to risks associated with the ongoing decline of the automotive, consumer products, original equipment, manufacturing, construction and housing markets. These conditions have resulted in financial instability or other adverse effects at many of our suppliers and customers. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, delays or interruptions of the supply of raw materials we purchase, and bankruptcy of customers, suppliers or other creditors. Any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Moreover, the current worldwide financial crisis has reduced the availability of credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of our customers' business operations. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Therefore, continued disruption of the credit markets has affected and could continue to adversely affect our customer's access to credit which supports the continuation and expansion of their businesses and could result in contract cancellations or suspensions, payment delays or defaults by our customers. Volatility and major fluctuations in prices and limited availability of raw materials and energy, including energy prices, may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. Steel producers require large amounts of raw materials; the principal raw materials being scrap metal and scrap substitute products such as pig iron or pelletized iron. Although our vertical integration into iron making, through our Iron Dynamics operations, and our ongoing Mesabi Nugget project, and our entrance into the metals recycling business through our acquisition of OmniSource Corporation may enable us to be our own source for some of our metallics requirements, we will still need to rely on other metallics and raw material suppliers, as well as general industry supply conditions. During 2008 alone, prices for No. 1 bundles (a scrap commodity) reached a high of $865 per ton and also fell to a low of $125 per ton. The availability and prices of raw materials may also be negatively affected by new laws and regulations, allocation by suppliers, interruptions in production, accidents or natural disasters, changes in exchange rates, worldwide price fluctuations, and the availability and cost of transportation. Steel producers also consume large amounts of energy, inasmuch as mini-mills melt steel scrap in electric arc furnaces and use natural gas to heat steel billets for rolling into finished products. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are all subject to volatile market conditions, often affected by weather conditions as well as political and economic factors beyond our control. If prices for scrap and other raw materials and energy increase by a greater margin than corresponding price increases for the sale of our steel products, we may not be able to recoup such cost increases from increases in the selling prices of steel products, or our inability to pass on all or any substantial part of such cost increases through scrap or other surcharges or to provide for our customers' needs because of the potential unavailability of key raw materials or other inputs, may result in production curtailments or may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Our level of production and our sales and earnings are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of the cyclical nature of the steel industry, the scrap metal recycling industry and some of the industries we serve. The steel manufacturing business and the scrap metal recycling business are both cyclical in nature and the price of the steel we make or the steel scrap we utilize to manufacture that steel may fluctuate significantly due to many factors beyond our control. With our acquisition of OmniSource, a significant portion of our revenues and our operating results are now also dependent upon both ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal sales to other steel mills and foundries for use in their manufacturing operations. The timing and magnitude of these price fluctuations are difficult to predict. The sale of our manufactured steel products is directly affected by demand for our products in other cyclical industries, such as the automotive, oil and gas, gas transmission, residential and commercial/industrial construction, commercial equipment, rail transportation, appliance, agricultural and durable goods industries. Currently, the domestic automotive industry, which is a major consumer of new steel and a major generator of steel scrap, is suffering from a prolonged and unprecedented downturn, threatening their financial viability. Continued economic difficulties, stagnant economies, supply/demand imbalances and currency fluctuations in the United States or globally could further decrease the demand for our 23 Table of Contents products or increase the amount of imports of steel into the United States, which would decrease our sales, margins and profitability. We are also particularly sensitive to trends and events, including strikes and labor unrest, that may adversely impact these industries. These industries are significant markets for our products and are themselves highly cyclical. Overall, we believe that rapid substantial price changes, should they continue to occur, will not be to our industry's benefit. Our customer and supplier base would be impacted due to uncertainty as to future prices. A reluctance to purchase inventory in the face of extreme price decreases or sell quickly during a period of rapid price increases would likely reduce our volume of business. Similarly, but not necessarily paralleling the price fluctuations in the steel business, the purchase prices for automobile bodies and various other grades of obsolete and industrial scrap, as well as the selling prices for processed and recycled scrap metals we utilize in our own manufacturing process or we resell to others through our OmniSource facilities, are also currently and may continue to be highly volatile and beyond our control. As a metals recycler, we may attempt to respond to changing recycled metal selling prices by adjusting the scrap metal purchase prices we would pay, but our ability to do this may be limited by competitive or other factors and this, in turn, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our business. Fluctuations in the value of the dollar can be expected to affect our business. A strong U.S. dollar makes imported metal products less expensive, potentially resulting in more imports of steel products into the U.S. by our foreign competitors, while a weak U.S. dollar may have the opposite impact on imports. Compliance with and changes in environmental and remediation requirements could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. We are subject to comprehensive local, state, federal and international statutory and regulatory environmental requirements relating to, among other things: •the acceptance, storage, treatment, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste; •the discharge of materials into air; •the management and treatment of wastewater and storm water; •the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination; •natural resource damages; and •the protection of our employees' health and safety. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations, which affect both our steelmaking and our scrap processing operations, is a significant factor in our business. We must obtain and comply with environmental permits and licenses, and failure to obtain or the violation of any permit or license, if not remedied, could result in substantial fines and penalties, suspension of operations or the closure of a subject facility. Private parties might also bring claims against us for alleged property damage or personal injury resulting from the environmental impacts of our operations. Moreover, legal requirements change frequently, are subject to interpretation and have tended to become more stringent over time. Uncertainty regarding adequate pollution control levels, testing and sampling procedures, and new pollution control technology are factors that may increase our future compliance expenditures. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of future compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations, and we also cannot predict whether such costs can be passed on to 24 Table of Contents customers through product price increases. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, the cost of complying with existing laws or regulations as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or with future laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our manufacturing and recycling operations produce significant amounts of by-products, some of which are handled as industrial waste or hazardous waste. For example, our mills generate electric arc furnace (EAF) dust, which the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and other regulatory authorities classify as hazardous waste. EAF dust requires special handling, recycling and disposal. In addition, the primary feed materials for the shredders operated by our scrap metal recycling facilities are automobile hulks and obsolete household appliances. Approximately 20% of the weight of an automobile hulk consists of unrecyclable material known as shredder fluff. After the segregation of ferrous and saleable nonferrous metals, shredder fluff remains. We, along with others in the recycling industry, interpret federal regulations to require shredder fluff to meet certain criteria and pass a toxic leaching test to avoid classification as a hazardous waste. We also endeavor to remove hazardous contaminants from the feed material prior to shredding. As a result, we believe the shredder fluff we generate is not normally considered or properly classified as hazardous waste. However, if laws or regulations, the interpretation of the laws or regulations, or testing methods change with regard to EAF dust or shredder fluff, we may incur significant additional expenditures. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA" or "Superfund") enables USEPA and state agencies to recover from owners, operators, generators and transporters the cost of investigation and cleanup of sites which pose serious threats to the environment or public health. In connection with CERCLA and analogous state laws, we may be required to clean up contamination discovered at our sites including contamination that may have been caused by former owners or operators of the sites, conduct additional cleanup at sites where we have already participated in remediation efforts or to take remediation action with regard to sites formerly used in connection with our operations. In addition, we may be required to pay for, or to pay a portion of, the costs of remediation at sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for disposal, notwithstanding the original disposal activity accorded with all regulatory requirements. Pursuant to CERCLA, a potentially responsible party can be held jointly and severally liable for all of the cleanup costs associated with a third-party disposal site. In practice, a liable party often splits the costs of cleanup with other potentially responsible parties. OmniSource has received notices from USEPA, state agencies and third parties that it has been identified as potentially responsible for the cost of investigating and cleaning up several third-party disposal sites. In most cases, may other parties are also named as potentially responsible parties. Based upon information currently available to us, we do not believe the cost of remediation of these sites will have a material effect on our business. Because CERCLA can be imposed retroactively on shipments that occurred many years ago, and because USEPA and state agencies are still discovering sites that pose a threat to public health or the environment, we can provide no assurance that we will not become liable in the future for significant costs associated with investigation and remediation of additional CERCLA waste sites. CERCLA, including the Superfund Recycling Equity Act of 1999, limits the exposure of scrap metal recyclers for sales of certain recyclable material under certain circumstances. However, the recycling defense is subject to conducting of reasonable care evaluations of current and potential consumers. 25 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Business Our senior secured credit agreement contains, and any future financing agreements may contain, restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility. Restrictions and covenants in our existing debt agreements, including our senior secured credit agreement and any future financing agreements, may impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Specifically, these agreements restrict our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness; •pay dividends or make distributions with respect to our capital stock; •repurchase or redeem capital stock; •make some investments; •create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions; •make some capital expenditures; •enter into transactions with affiliates or related persons; •issue or sell stock of certain subsidiaries; •sell or transfer assets; and •participate in some joint ventures, acquisitions or mergers. A breach of any of the restrictions or covenants could cause a default under our senior secured credit agreement, other debt or our senior notes. A significant portion of our indebtedness then may become immediately due and payable if the default is not remedied. We are exposed to risks associated with the current financial crisis. Financial markets in the U.S. and abroad have experienced extreme disruption, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability resulting in volatilities in short-term borrowing costs and more stringent borrowing terms. Recessionary conditions in the global economy threaten to cause further tightening of the credit markets, more stringent lending standards and terms and higher volatility in interest rates. These conditions may adversely affect our business in the future, particularly if there is further deterioration in the world financial markets and major economies. The current credit conditions may also adversely affect the business of our customers. Difficulties in obtaining capital may lead to the inability of some customers to obtain affordable financing to fund their operations, resulting in lower demand for our products. Furthermore, liquidity issues could impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. Should the recent constraints on access to credit continue for a prolonged period, some of our customers may struggle or fail to meet their obligations, especially if they in turn experience defaults or slow payment on receivables due from their customers. A prolonged recession could result in our incurring bad debt costs in excess of our expectations and prior experience. In certain markets consolidation, together with higher metals and other commodity prices, has resulted in an increased credit exposure being spread among fewer customers, often without a corresponding strengthening of these customers financial status. 26 Table of Contents We may not have sufficient cash flow to make payments on our senior unsecured notes and our other debt. As of December 31, 2008, we had $2.65 billion of indebtedness, which represented approximately 62% of our total consolidated capitalization, including current maturities of long-term debt. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our senior unsecured notes and our other debt and to fund our planned capital expenditures depends on our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that are often beyond our control, including general economic conditions and financial, competitive, regulatory and environmental factors. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash flow to meet our liquidity needs, including making payments on our indebtedness. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to allow us to make scheduled payments on our notes or our other debt, we may have to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt. We cannot assure you that the terms of our debt will allow for these alternative measures or that such measures would satisfy our scheduled debt service obligations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt: •our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; •the lenders under our senior secured credit agreement could terminate their commitments and commence foreclosure proceedings against our assets; and •we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The amount of our indebtedness may limit our financial and operating flexibility. For example, it could: •make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations with respect to our notes and our debt; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our notes and/or our debt, reducing our ability to use these funds for other purposes; •limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions; and •increase our vulnerability to downturns in general economic conditions or in our business. We may face significant price and other forms of competition from other steel producers and scrap processors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or prospects. The global markets in which steel companies and scrap processors conduct business are highly competitive and are becoming even more so due to the current global economic downturn and to consolidations in recent years in the steel industry and in the scrap industry. Increased competition could cause us to lose market share, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The global steel industry has historically suffered from substantial over-capacity, and excess capacity in some of our products will intensify price competition for such products. The global demand for steel scrap has also recently decreased, due to market conditions, causing a decrease in the price of scrap metals. A decrease in price could result in some scrap generators exiting the marketplace which could further decrease the availability of scrap. This shortage in availability of scrap could have a material 27 Table of Contents adverse effect on both our steelmaking and our metals recycling operations and thus on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. We may be unable to pass on increases in the cost of steel scrap and other raw materials to our customers, which would reduce our earnings. If from time to time we are unable to pass on higher steel scrap and other raw material costs to our customers, we will be less profitable. We may not be able to adjust our product prices, especially in the short-term, to recover the costs of prolonged increases in scrap and other raw material prices. Our principal raw material is scrap metal derived primarily from junked automobiles, industrial scrap, railroad cars, railroad track materials, agricultural machinery and demolition scrap from obsolete structures, containers and machines. The prices for scrap are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including demand by U.S. and international steel producers, freight costs and speculation. The prices for scrap have varied significantly, may vary significantly in the future and do not necessarily fluctuate in tandem with the price of steel. Moreover, some of our integrated steel producer competitors are not as dependent as we are on scrap as a part of their raw material melt mix, which, during periods of high scrap costs relative to the cost of blast furnace iron used by the integrated producers, give them a raw material cost advantage over mini-mills. In addition, our operations require substantial amounts of other raw materials, including various types of pig iron, alloys, refractories, oxygen, natural gas and electricity, the price and availability of which are also subject to market conditions. Competition from other materials may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. In many applications, steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum and plastics (particularly in the automobile industry), cement, composites, glass and wood. Additional substitutes for steel products could adversely affect future market prices and demand for steel products. Equipment downtime or shutdowns could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Steel manufacturing processes are dependent on critical steelmaking equipment, such as furnaces, continuous casters, rolling mills and electrical equipment (such as transformers), and this equipment may incur downtime as a result of unanticipated failures or other events, such as fires or furnace breakdowns, as well as other unusual and unplanned maintenance requirements. Our manufacturing plants have experienced, and may in the future experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures or other events. These disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations, customer service levels and financial results. We may face risks associated with the implementation of our growth strategy. Our growth strategy subjects us to various risks. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand existing facilities, build additional plants, acquire other businesses and steel assets, enter into joint ventures, or form strategic alliances that we believe will complement our existing business. These transactions will likely involve some or all of the following risks: •the difficulty of competing for acquisitions and other growth opportunities with companies having materially greater financial resources than us; •the inability to realize anticipated synergies or other benefits expected from an acquisition; •the difficulty of integrating the acquired operations and personnel into our existing businesses; 28 Table of Contents •the potential disruption of ongoing businesses; •the diversion of resources; •the inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; •the difficulty of managing the growth of a larger company; •the risk of entering markets in which we have little experience; •the risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial, or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprise; •the risk of becoming more highly leveraged; •the risk of contractual or operational liability to other venture participants or to third parties as a result of our participation; •the inability to work efficiently with joint venture or strategic alliance partners; and •the difficulties of terminating joint ventures or strategic alliances. These transactions might be required for us to remain competitive, but we may not be able to complete any such transactions on favorable terms or obtain financing, if necessary, for such transactions on favorable terms. Future transactions may not improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated, and if they do not, our sales and earnings may be significantly reduced. There are risks associated with the development and operation of new businesses or acquisitions. On September 20, 2007, we announced that we are moving forward with our Mesabi Nugget iron-making project to construct the world's first commercial iron-making facility to use Kobe Steel Company's ITmk3® iron-making process, an undertaking involving an investment of approximately $265 million for the nugget facility and $165 million for the mining operation. On October 26, 2007, we completed the acquisition of OmniSource, one of the largest scrap processing, brokerage and industrial scrap management companies in North America, for a purchase price of approximately $1.1 billion. And on June 9, 2008, we acquired the remaining 75% equity interest in Recycle South, LLC that we did not already own, for an purchase price of $376 million. The success of any future business or acquisition will depend substantially on our ability to manage the acquired operations successfully and to integrate them with our existing operations in an efficient and effective manner. If we are unable to manage or integrate new operations successfully, our financial results could suffer. Additional risks associated with acquisitions include the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the potential assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential risk of increasing the amount of our outstanding indebtedness and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. Technology, operating and start-up risks associated with our announced Mesabi Nugget project may prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits and could result in a loss of our investment. While we and certain other current and former joint venture partners built and operated a successful small scale pilot project in Minnesota using Kobe Steel's proprietary ITmK3® iron-making process to produce a cost effective iron nugget product, which we plan to utilize as a scrap substitute feedstock in our steel making operations, we have no assurance that the full scale commercial plant we recently announced, in which we will be the dominant investor and owner, will be successful. Although, we believe that a full-scale commercial plant should be capable of consistently producing high-quality 29 Table of Contents iron nuggets in sufficient quantities and at a cost that will compare favorably with the cost of steel scrap and scrap substitute products, including pig iron, there can be no assurance that these expectations can be achieved. We anticipate the capital costs of this project to be approximately $265 million for the nugget facility. If we encounter cost overruns, construction delays or systems or process difficulties during or after start-up, the anticipated capital costs could materially increase, the expected operating cost benefits from the development of this iron nugget product could be diminished or lost, and we could also lose our investment in the project. Moreover, we may undertake certain ancillary ventures related to the iron-making process, such as the mining and concentrating of taconite ore, a business in which we have no experience and that could entail substantial additional investment with no guarantees of success. Hedging transactions may expose us to loss or limit our potential gains. Our product lines and operations may expose us to risks associated with commodity prices, interest rates and possible fluctuations in foreign currency exchange. As part of our risk management program, we may use financial instruments, including commodity futures or forwards, foreign currency exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps. While intended to reduce the effects of the fluctuations, these transactions may also from time to time limit our potential gains or expose us to loss. Moreover, should any of our counterparties to such transactions or the sponsors of the exchanges through which these transactions are offered, fail to honor their obligations due to financial distress, we would be exposed to potential losses or the inability to recover anticipated gains from these transactions. We are subject to litigation which could adversely affect our profitability. We are involved in various routine litigation matters, including administrative proceedings, regulatory proceedings, governmental investigations, environmental matters and commercial and construction contract disputes. We were involved as the sole defendant in a February 1, 2008 lawsuit by Prime Eagle Group Limited, seeking damages in excess of $1.1 billion, but on February 23, 2008, pursuant to our Motion to Dismiss that action, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana granted our Motion to Dismiss, with prejudice and denied the plaintiffs the right to amend their Complaint. We are also involved as one of nine defendants in a September 12, 2008 class action antitrust complaint by Standard Iron Works and others involving alleged antitrust violations of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. We and the other defendants have filed a joint Motion to Dismiss these actions. These lawsuits are described in more detail in Item 3 ("Legal Proceedings") of this Report. We are contesting and will continue to vigorously contest all these matters. Due to the uncertain nature of litigation, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. These matters, however, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and profitability. Litigation is very costly, and the costs associated with prosecuting and defending litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. Although we are unable to estimate the dollar amount of exposure to loss, if any, in connection with many litigation matters, we make accruals as warranted. However, the amounts that we may accrue from time to time could vary significantly from the amounts we actually pay, due to inherent uncertainties and the inherent shortcomings of the estimation process, the uncertainties involved in litigation and other factors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 30 Table of Contents 