ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face the following material risks in executing our business plan and achieving revenues. We also face the risks identified elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those risks identified under "Item 3 - Legal Proceedings" and "Item 7 - Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". If any of these risks occur, our business and our operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed and we may not be able to commence business operations as a going concern. THERE IS SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN We reported net loss of $901,030 for the fiscal year ended December 2011. We have derived negligible revenue from operations and have substantial unpaid liabilities. We have an accumulated deficit of $136,081,701 at December 31, 2011. Since our inception we have disposed of our most significant subsidiary through bankruptcy, have been subject to lawsuits, used most of our available cash to conduct our operating activities and are required to seek additional equity or debt financing in order to continue operations. These matters raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors have made reference to the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern in their audit report on our audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011. FINANCIAL HISTORY PROBLEMS We anticipate difficulties arising from our adverse financial history. These include substantial payables that must be paid or settled, damaged relationships and adverse publicity, and interrupted contracts. These factors may impact our ability to raise needed funds for development of our products. There is no assurance that we can overcome these difficulties. COMPANY REQUIRES ADDITIONAL FUNDING While we obtained limited funding in 2011, this was insufficient to resume normal operations. If we do not obtain substantial additional funding we will not be able to continue in business. We may not be able to obtain any such additional financing on favorable or acceptable terms, if at all. 7 NO ASSURANCE THAT A COMMERCIAL PRODUCT WILL BE DEVELOPED TIMELY IF AT ALL. With the exception of limited commercial production of certain Turbopac(TM) models several years ago, commercial products incorporating our technology are in the development stage. Historically, we have encountered delays in development due to design defects or changes in specifications and we may continue to experience problems which may prevent development of commercial precuts or technology or delay development. In addition we are experiencing difficulties in development as a result of our financial situation. These delays in turn increase the cost of development of products incorporating our technology and affect the timing of commercialization. Moreover delays increase the possibility that our products could be obsolete. Our future revenues depend on sales of products or licensing revenue incorporating our technology. Failure to timely develop any product will ultimately result in cessation of operations. POSSIBLE CHANGES IN AUTOMOBILES MAY MAKE OUR PRODUCT OBSOLETE There are numerous proposals to eliminate gasoline-powered, internal combustion engines. If these proposals are adopted it could, in the long run, limit or eliminate the need for our products. DEPENDENCE ON KEY EXECUTIVES The Company will be dependent on the services of Jason Meyers and Debi Kokinos. The Company is a party to a consulting agreement with a firm that is obligated to provide the services of Mr. Meyers and is also a party to a consulting agreement with Debi Kokinos. If, for any reason, however, their services were not available, the Company would be severely adversely affected. WE HAVE NO SALES AND MARKETING EXPERIENCE. No products utilizing our technology have been commercially produced. Except for the limited sales of shop (or produced prototypes) products, we have had no sales in the last several years. The sales of prototypes have been treated as a reduction of research and development cost. We do not have dedicated sales and marketing professionals who are experienced in dealing with the relevant markets. Company personnel and agents on a part-time basis perform sales and marketing functions along with other duties. We cannot assure you that products are commercially developed that sales will be commercially successful. The failure of sales will have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO HIRE AND RETAIN CONSULTANTS All our development work as well as other services is performed pursuant to consulting arrangements. Due to a lack of sufficient funding we are only able to retain two consultants. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain and retain these and additional consultants necessary to implement our business strategy successfully. This is particularly so when funds are not available to pay amounts past due under these arrangements. If we do not retain or replace qualified consultants, our ability to further develop our technology will be impaired with the result that our business will be adversely affected. In addition, our historical problems and financial position may make it more difficult to attract personnel. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DEVELOP COMMERCIALLY VIABLE PRODUCT IF ULTIMATE USERS DO NOT ACCEPT OUR PRODUCTS UTILIZING OUR TECHNOLOGY If products are developed utilizing our technology our success is dependent upon acceptance by ultimate users in our target markets. If we or any partners are unable to convince our target market of the advantages and viability of our technology, our market potential may be severely limited or non-existent. WE MAY EXPEND A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF TIME AND RESOURCES TESTING PROGRAMS THAT MAY NOT RESULT IN ANY SALES We may enter into licensing or other arrangements with third parties. Developing relationships with any third party involves lengthy periods of product development and performance evaluation by the third party. During this period, we may provide certain products or services free of charge or at a reduced rate. We also devote a significant amount of time and attention to pursuing these programs in an effort to obtain arrangements to exploit commercialization for products utilizing or incorporating our technology. Third Parties that we conduct joint development work or other proposed arrangements with will be under no obligation to enter into an arrangement and after evaluation may determine not to proceed with an arrangement Accordingly, we may devote substantial time and resources to developing relationships and programs that do not result in commercialization of products incorporating our technology. 8 FUTURE REVENUES DEPEND ON OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN AND ENFORCE PATENT PROTECTION FOR OUR TECHNOLOGY Protection of trade secrets and proprietary know how is critical to our success. If our competitors independently develop similar or superior technologies or gain access to our trade secrets, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, we depend on continued patent protection for these products. If we are unable to maintain patent protection for our technology, we may not be able to gain a competitive advantage or protect our technology and our business will be adversely affected. Certain patents and patent applications of the Company have been irretrievably abandoned due to a lack of funding sufficient to pay patent filing and maintenance fees. We may incur substantial costs seeking to enforce our patent rights against infringement or unauthorized use. We are already aware of one or more potential infringements. Our trade secrets and proprietary know how are critical for us to achieve and maintain a competitive position. We cannot assure you that others may not independently develop similar or superior technologies or gain access to our trade secrets or know how. WE MUST KEEP PACE WITH TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE TO ACHIEVE SUCCESS The industries in which we compete are characterized by rapid and significant technological change. Our success depends on our ability to continually develop new technology and to refine products incorporating our original technology. We have been pursuing commercialization of our product lines. Due to delay and the rapid pace of technological innovation in the industry, there is a risk that these products may be superseded by new technology and become obsolete. The Company is aware of potentially competitive products that can damage our ability to grow. Our products may not be commercially accepted or we may not be able to enhance existing products or develop new products. Future technological change may render one or more of our products obsolete or uneconomical. Our ability to continue to develop and market new and improved products that can achieve significant market acceptance will determine our future sales and profitability. INTENSE COMPETITION The business environment in which we operate is highly competitive. Most of our competitors and potential competitors may have greater financial, marketing, technological and other resources. We believe that products technologically similar to ours have been sold. We will face intense competition if we introduce our products commercially. In addition, a relatively small number of OEM's hold a significant share of the automotive market and the determination of an OEM not to incorporate our products into its product line may force us to expend additional amounts to gain market share and/or significantly reduce our potential. VOIDABLE REINCORPORATION It is possible that our reincorporation from Delaware to Nevada may be voidable under Delaware law. Because of the similarity of the laws of the two states we do not believe we will suffer substantial adverse consequences. However we may suffer adverse consequences in such event. Moreover, in the process of correcting any failure to have properly approved the merger we may incur expenditures unrelated to operations. INCREASED COMPLIANCE AS A PUBLIC COMPANY MAY BE A BURDEN Pending actions by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission may substantially increase compliance costs under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the short term. If the Company fails to act because of a lack of funds then the ability of the Company to operate as a public traded firm could be materially impaired. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority “FINRA” has assumed a larger role in governing the disclosure of and trading in shares of smaller public companies. Conflicts may exist between FINRA’s rules and state and federal securities laws which poses a significant risk in the completion of processing corporate actions approved by shareholders and directors which could jeopardize the Company’s ability to complete its reverse stock split and name change. Compliance with state and federal laws will be required to complete a reverse split and a name change. Such corporate actions will require FINRA approval as well. If FINRA does not process our shareholder approved corporate actions and we are unable to complete our reverse split and name change as a result, we will not be able to fully comply with federal and state securities laws. Furthermore, we will not be able to raise additional capital and will be forced to discontinue operations and you will likely lose your entire investment. 9 POTENTIAL PRODUCT LIABILITY The Company faces substantial potential product liability in connection with the sale and use of its products. It intends to take significant protective steps, including a vigorous quality assurance program and the purchase of product liability insurance. There can be no assurance that any insurance obtained will be sufficient to cover potential claims or that coverage will be available at a reasonable cost. A partially or completely uninsured successful claim against the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company. SUBSTANTIAL DILUTION- FUTURE ISSUANCE OF SHARES The Company will issue a significant number of additional shares in the future in connection with additional financing, the conversion of the principal and interest of presently outstanding convertible notes, the exercise of outstanding warrants and for other purposes. As of December 31, 2011, a total of approximately 980,177,166 additional shares are issuable by the Company upon the conversion of convertible notes, excluding interest, and the exercise of options and warrants. A holder of the Company's common stock will face substantial dilution resulting from future issuances of its securities. CONTROL Aspatuck Holdings, Ltd beneficially owns a significant number of the outstanding shares, with rights to additional shares, and will retain effective control of the Company. THE ACCOUNTING TREATMENT OF FUTURE VESTING OF WARRANTS MAY RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT LOSSES As of December 31, 2011, the Company has approximately 385,189 unvested options outstanding which may vest over the following year upon the continuation of service of the holders and/or the happening of a specific event. The Company will have to expense the fair value of the options as they vest. Furthermore, as a result of the existence of presently outstanding convertible securities that cannot be converted due to insufficient authorized shares, the Company will be required to record derivative liabilities. THE COMPANY WILL BE DEPENDENT ON THIRD PARTIES FOR THE PRODUCTION OF ANY PRODUCT WHICH MAY BE COMMERCIALIZED The Company will utilize unaffiliated third parties to assemble its products and manufacture its components. The Company believes there are numerous manufacturers available to satisfy anticipated requirements. The inability to enter into arrangements with manufacturers would prevent or limit the Company's future sales. Moreover, subsequent failures or termination of a manufacturer could result in our inability to deliver adequate quantities of product on a timely and competitive basis. Further, the inability to obtain favorable pricing terms from third parties could effect our competitive situation and our profit margins. RISKS RELATING TO OUR MARKET OUR STOCK IS A PENNY STOCK; THEREFORE SHAREHOLDERS WILL BE MORE LIMITED IN THEIR ABILITY TO SELL THEIR STOCK Our common stock is traded on the OTC Pink Markets and constitutes a penny stock under the Securities and Exchange Act. Our common stock will remain classified as a penny stock for the foreseeable future. The classification as a penny stock makes it more difficult for a broker-dealer to trade our stock in the secondary market, which makes it more difficult for a purchaser to liquidate his or her investment. Any broker-dealer engaged by the purchaser for the purpose of selling his or her shares will be subject to rules 15g-1 through 15g-10 of the Securities and Exchange Act. Rather than having to comply with these rules, some broker-dealers will refuse to attempt to sell a penny stock and/or accept custody of our shares. These rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and also may affect the ability of holders of our common stock to appoint a custodian to hold the shares and chose a broker to process transactions in our common stock. 10 OUR STOCK PRICE IS EXTREMELY VOLATILE The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of events and factors, such as our ability to finance our operations, the status of legal proceedings against us, our inability to achieve commercialization of our products or enter into joint venture and licensing agreements, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news relating to trends in our markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for high technology stocks in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. ABSENCE OF DIVIDENDS We have never paid cash dividends on the common stock and because of substantial deficit may not legally do so. Cash dividends are not expected to be paid on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Assuming we could eliminate the deficit, any future determination to declare or pay dividends will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will be dependent on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual and legal restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE. 