ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report before purchasing our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and stockholders are at risk of losing some or all of the money invested in purchasing our common stock. We have a limited operating history in an emerging market, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, New Motion Mobile, commenced offering subscription products and services directly to consumers in 2005. In addition, our merger with Traffix, which is responsible for generating the majority of our Transactional revenues, was completed at the beginning of 2008. Accordingly, we have a limited history of generating revenues, and our future revenue and income generating potential is uncertain and unproven based on our limited operating history. As a result of our short operating history, we have limited financial data that can be used to develop trends and other historical based evaluation methods to project and forecast our business. Any evaluation of our business and the potential prospects derived from such evaluation must be considered in light of our limited operating history and discounted accordingly. Evaluations of our current business model and our future prospects must address the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies in early stages of development, that possess limited operating history, and that are conducting business in new and emerging markets. The following is a list of some of the risks and uncertainties that exist in our operating, and competitive marketing environment. To be successful, we believe that we must: · Maintain existing and develop new carrier and billing aggregator relationships upon which our direct-to-consumer subscription business currently depends; · Maintain a compliance based control system to render our products and services compliant with carrier and aggregator demands, as well as marketing practices imposed by private marketing rule makers, such as the Mobile Marketing Association, and to conform with the stringent marketing demands as imposed by various States’ Attorney Generals; · Respond effectively to competitive pressures in order to maintain our market position; · Increase brand awareness and consumer recognition to grow our business; · Attract and retain qualified management and employees for the expansion of the operating platform; · Continue to upgrade our technology and information processing systems to assess marketing results, measure customer satisfaction and remain competitive; · Continue to develop and source high-quality, direct-to-consumer subscription-worthy content that achieves significant market acceptance; · Execute our business and marketing strategies successfully. If we are unable to address these risks, and respond accordingly, our operating results may not meet our publicly forecasted expectations, and/or the expectations as derived by our investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our business relies on wireless and landline carriers and aggregators to facilitate billing and collections in connection with our subscription products sold and services rendered. The loss of, or a material change in, any of these relationships could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we generated a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of our products and services directly to consumers which are billed through aggregators and telephone carriers. We expect that we will continue to bill a significant portion of our revenues through a limited number of aggregators for the foreseeable future, although these aggregators may vary from period to period. In a risk diversification and cost saving effort, we have established a direct billing relationship with a carrier that mitigates a portion of our revenue generation risk as it relates to aggregator dependence; conversely this risk is replaced with internal performance risk regarding our ability to successfully process billable messages directly with the carrier. Moreover, in an effort to further mitigate such operational risk, we invested a 36% equity stake in a landline telephone aggregator, TBR, to give us more visibility in the billing and collection process associated with subscription services billed to customers of local exchange carriers. Our aggregator agreements are not exclusive and generally have a limited term of less than three years with automatic renewal provisions upon expiration in the majority of the agreements. These agreements set out the terms of our relationships with the aggregator and carriers, and provide that either party to the contract can terminate such agreement prior to its expiration, and in some instances, terminate without cause. 11 Many other factors exist that are outside of our control and could impair our carrier relationships, including: · a carrier’s decision to suspend delivery of our products and services to its customer base; · a carrier’s decision to offer its own competing subscription applications, products and services; · a carrier’s decision to offer similar subscription applications, products and services to its subscribers for price points less than our offered price points, or for free; · a network encountering technical problems that disrupt the delivery of, or billing for, our applications; · the potential for concentrations of credit risk embedded in the amounts receivable from the aggregator should any one, or group if aggregators encounter financial difficulties, directly or indirectly, as a result of the current period of slower economic growth currently affecting the United States; or · a carrier’s decision to increase the fees it charges to market and distribute our applications, thereby increasing its own revenue and decreasing our share of revenue. If one or more carriers decide to suspend the offering of our subscription services, we may be unable to replace such revenue source with an acceptable alternative, within an acceptable time frame. This could cause us to lose the capability to derive revenue from those subscribers, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend on third-party Internet and telecommunications providers, over whom we have no control, for the conduct of our subscription business and transactional business. Interruptions in or the discontinuance of the services provided by one of the providers could have an adverse effect on revenue; and securing alternate sources of these services could significantly increase expenses and cause significant interruption to both our transactional and subscription businesses. We depend heavily on several third-party providers of Internet and related telecommunication services, including hosting and co-location facilities, in conducting our business. These companies may not continue to provide services to us without disruptions in service, at the current cost or at all. The costs associated with any transition to a new service provider would be substantial, requiring the reengineering of computer systems and telecommunications infrastructure to accommodate a new service provider to allow for a rapid replacement and return to normal network operations. This process would be both expensive and time-consuming. In addition, failure of the Internet and related telecommunications providers to provide the data communications capacity in the time frame required by us could cause interruptions in the services we provide across all of our business activities. In addition to service interruptions arising from third-party service providers, unanticipated problems affecting our proprietary internal computer and telecommunications systems have the potential to occur in future fiscal periods, and could cause interruptions in the delivery of services, causing a loss of revenue and related gross margins, and the potential loss of customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on partners and third-parties for our content and for the delivery of services underlying our subscriptions. We depend heavily on partners and third-parties to provide us with licensed content including the Kazaa music service. We are reliant on such companies to maintain licenses with music labels so that we can deliver services that we are contractually obligated to deliver to our customers. These companies may not continue to provide services to us without disruption, or maintain licenses with the owners of the delivered content. In addition to licensed content, we are also reliant on partners and third parties to provide services and to perform other activities which allow us to bill our subscribers. Failure of our partners to continue to provide these services, may result in disruption to our customers and a loss in our business. The costs associated with any transition to a new service or content provider would be substantial, even if a similar partner is available. Failure of our partners or other third parties to provide content or deliver services have the potential to cause interruptions in the delivery of services, causing a loss of revenue and related gross margins, and the potential loss of customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our working capital requirements are significant and we may need to raise cash in the future to fund our working capital requirements. Our working capital requirements are significant. If our cash flows from operations are less than anticipated or our working capital requirements or capital expenditures are greater than expectations, or if we expand our business by acquiring or investing in additional products or technologies, we may need to secure additional debt or equity financing. We are continually evaluating various financing strategies to be used to expand our business and fund future growth. There can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The potential inability to obtain additional debt or equity financing, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 12 If advertising on the internet loses its appeal, our revenue could decline. Companies doing business on the Internet must compete with traditional advertising media, including television, radio, cable and print, for a share of advertisers' total marketing budgets. Potential customers may be reluctant to devote a significant portion of their marketing budget to Internet advertising or digital marketing if they perceive the Internet to be trending towards a limited or ineffective marketing medium. Any shift in marketing budgets away from Internet advertising spending or digital marketing solutions, could directly, materially and adversely affect our transactional business, as well as our subscription business, with both having a materially negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. During 2009, all of our revenue was generated, directly or indirectly, through the Internet in part by delivering advertisements that generate leads, impressions, click-throughs, and other actions to our advertiser customers' websites as well as confirmation and management of mobile services. This business model may not continue to be effective in the future for various reasons, including the following: · click and conversion rates may decline as the number of advertisements and ad formats on the Web increases, making it less likely that a user will click on our advertisement; · the installation of "filter" software programs by web users which prevent advertisements from appearing on their computer screens or in their email boxes may reduce click-throughs; · companies may be reluctant or slow to adopt online advertising that replaces, limits or competes with their existing direct marketing efforts; · companies may prefer other forms of Internet advertising we do not offer, including certain forms of search engine placements; · companies may reject or discontinue the use of certain forms of online promotions that may conflict with their brand objectives; · companies may not utilize online advertising due to concerns of "click-fraud", particularly related to search engine placements; · regulatory actions may negatively impact certain business practices that we currently rely on to generate a portion of our revenue and profitability; and · perceived lead quality. If the number of companies who purchase online advertising from us does not continue to grow, we may experience difficulty in attracting publishers, and our revenue could decline. We no longer meet the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market and have until June 22, 2010 to correct it. We received a notice from NASDAQ that we no longer meet the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market as set forth in NASDAQ’s Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1), as a result of the bid price of our common stock closing below the required minimum $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. We have been provided with a customary grace period of 180 calendar days in which to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. If at any time before June 22, 2010, the bid price of our stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, NASDAQ will provide written confirmation to us that we have regained compliance. If we do not regain compliance with the bid price rule by June 22, 2010, NASDAQ will notify us that our common stock is subject to delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market. However, we may appeal the delisting determination to a NASDAQ hearing panel and the delisting will be stayed pending the panel's determination. Alternatively, we may apply to transfer the listing of its common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market if we satisfy all criteria for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, other than compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. If such application to the NASDAQ Capital Market is approved, then we may be eligible for an additional grace period. We intend to actively monitor the bid price for our common stock between now and June 22, 2010, and will consider available options to regain compliance with the NASDAQ minimum bid price requirements. If we are unable to regain compliance with the minimum bid rule and is delisted, or unable to qualify for listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, market liquidity for our common stock could be severely affected, and our stockholders’ ability to sell securities in the secondary market could be limited. Delisting from NASDAQ would negatively affect the value of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including, but not limited to, the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our revenue could decline if we fail to effectively monetize our content and our growth could be impeded if we fail to acquire or develop new content. Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively manage our existing content. The Web publishers and email list owners that list their unsold leads, data or offers with us are not bound by long-term contracts that ensure us a consistent supply of same. In addition, Web publishers or email list owners can change the amount of content they make available to us at any time. If a Web publisher or email list owner decides not to make content from its websites, newsletters or email lists available to us, we may not be able to replace this content with content from other Web publishers or email list owners that have comparable traffic patterns and user demographics quickly enough to fulfill our advertisers' requests. This would result in lost revenue. 13 If we fail to compete effectively against other internet advertising companies, we could lose customers or advertising inventory and our revenue and results of operations could decline. The Internet advertising markets are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service introductions, and changing customer demands. The introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing products and services obsolete and unmarketable or require unanticipated technology or other investments. Our failure to adapt successfully to these changes could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully keep pace with the rapid technological changes that may occur in the wireless communication, internet and e-commerce arenas, we could lose customers or advertising inventory and our revenue and results of operations could decline. To remain competitive, we must continually monitor, enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our services, offered both in our subscription and transactional activities. Wireless network and mobile phone technologies, the Internet and the online commerce industry in general are characterized by rapid innovation and technological change, changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions requiring new technologies to facilitate commercial delivery, as well as the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render existing technologies, systems, business methods and/or our products and services obsolete or unmarketable in future fiscal periods. Our success in our business activities will depend, in part, on our ability to license or internally develop leading technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective consumers, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely-cost-effective basis. Website and other proprietary technology development entails significant technical and business risks, including the significant cost and time to complete development, the successful implementation of the application once developed, and time period for which the application will be useful prior to obsolescence. There can be no assurance that we will use internally developed or acquired new technologies effectively or adapt existing websites and operational systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable, for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, to adopt and implement new technologies on a timely basis in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We could be subject to legal claims, government enforcement actions, and be held accountable for our or our customers' failure to comply with federal, state and foreign laws, regulations or policies, all of which could materially harm our business. As a direct-to-consumer marketing company, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect consumers that govern certain of aspects of our business. For instance, recent growing public concern regarding privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about Internet users has led to increased federal, state and foreign scrutiny and legislative and regulatory activity concerning data collection and use practices. Any failure by us to comply with applicable federal, state and foreign laws and the requirements of regulatory authorities may result in, among other things, indemnification liability to our customers and the advertising agencies we work with, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders, and civil and criminal liability. Our customers are also subject to various federal and state laws concerning the collection and use of information regarding individuals. These laws include the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act, the Federal CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, as well as other laws that govern the collection and use of consumer credit information. We cannot assure you that our customers are currently in compliance, or will remain in compliance, with these laws and their own privacy policies. We may be held liable if our customers use our technologies in a manner that is not in compliance with these laws or their own stated privacy policies, which would have an adverse impact on our operations. Our success depends on our ability to continue forming relationships with other Internet and interactive media content, service and product providers. The Internet includes an ever-increasing number of businesses that offer and market consumer products and services. These entities offer advertising space on their websites, as well as profit sharing arrangements for joint effort marketing programs. We expect that with the increasing number of entrants into the Internet commerce arena, advertising costs and joint effort marketing programs will become extremely competitive. This competitive environment might limit, or possibly prevent us from obtaining profit generating advertising or reduce our margins on such advertising, and reduce our ability to enter into joint marketing programs in the future. If we fail to continue establishing new, and maintain and expand existing, profitable advertising and joint marketing arrangements, we may suffer substantial adverse consequences to our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we, as a result of our acquisition of Traffix, now have a significant economic dependence on the major search engine companies that conduct business on the Internet; such search engine companies maintain ever changing rules regarding scoring and indexing their customers marketing search terms. If we cannot effectively monitor the ever changing scoring and indexing criteria, and affectively adjust our search term applications to conform to such scoring and indexing, we could suffer a material decline in our search term generated acquisitions, correspondingly reducing our ability to fulfill our clients marketing needs. This would have an adverse impact on our company’s revenues and profitability. 14 The demand for a portion of our transactional services may decline due to the proliferation of “spam” and the expanded commercial adoption of software designed to prevent its delivery. Our business may be adversely affected by the proliferation of "spam" or unwanted internet solicitations. In response to the proliferation of spam, Internet Service Providers ("ISP's") have been adopting technologies, and individual computer users are installing software on their computers that are designed to prevent the delivery of certain Internet advertising, including legitimate solicitations such as those delivered by us. We cannot assure you that the number of ISP's and individual computer users who employ these or other similar technologies and software will not increase, thereby diminishing the efficacy of our transactional, as well as our subscription service activities. In the case that one or more of these technologies, or software applications, realize continued and/or widely increased adoption, demand for our services could decline in response. We do not intend to pay dividends on our equity securities. It is our current and long-term intention that we will use all cash flows to fund operations and maintain excess cash requirements for the possibility of potential future acquisitions. We may also use our cash to repurchase shares pursuant to our share repurchase program discussed elsewhere in this report. Future dividend declarations, if any, will result from our reversal of our current intentions, and would depend on our performance, the level of our then current and retained earnings and other pertinent factors relating to our financial position. Prior dividend declarations should not be considered as an indication for the potential for any future dividend declarations. We face intense competition in the marketing of our subscription services and the products of our transaction based clients. In both our subscription services, including our Kazaa music service, and transaction services, we compete primarily on the basis of marketing acquisition cost, brand awareness, consumer penetration and carrier and distribution depth and breadth. We face numerous competitors, many of whom are much larger than us, who have greater financial and operating resources than we do and who have been operating in our target markets longer than we have. In the future, likely competitors may include other major media companies, traditional video game publishers, telephone carriers, content aggregators, wireless software providers and other pure-play direct response marketers publishing content and media, and Internet affiliate and network companies. If we are not as successful as our competitors in executing on our strategy in targeting new markets, increasing customer penetration in existing markets, executing on marquee brand alignment, and/or effectively executing on business level accretive acquisition identification and successful closing and post acquisition integration, our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted and we could lose market share, any and all of which could materially harm our business prospects, and potentially have a negative impact on our share price. System failures could significantly disrupt our operations, which could cause us to lose customers or content. Our success depends on the continuing and uninterrupted performance of our systems. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to provide services to customers, including failures affecting our ability to deliver advertisements quickly and accurately and to process visitors' responses to advertisements, and, validate mobile subscriptions, would reduce significantly the attractiveness of our solutions to advertisers and Web publishers. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could also be materially and adversely affected by any systems damage or failure that impacts data integrity or interrupts or delays our operations. Our computer systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, power outages, malicious or accidental human acts, and natural disasters. We operate a data center in Canada and have a co-location agreement with a service provider to support our operations. Therefore, any of the above factors affecting any of these areas could substantially harm our business. Moreover, despite network security measures, our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems in part because we cannot control the maintenance and operation of our third-party data centers. Despite the precautions taken, unanticipated problems affecting our systems could cause interruptions in the delivery of our solutions in the future and our ability to provide a record of past transactions. Our data centers and systems incorporate varying degrees of redundancy. All data centers and systems may not automatically switch over to their redundant counterpart. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures in our systems. 15 Decreased effectiveness of equity compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees and harm our business. We have historically used stock options as a key component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees' interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted stock options, or to attract additional highly-qualified personnel. As of December 31, 2009, a majority of our outstanding employee stock options have exercise prices in excess of the stock price on that date. To the extent this continues to occur, our ability to retain employees may be adversely affected. Moreover, applicable NASDAQ listing standards relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant stock options or other stock-based awards to employees in the future. As a result, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, any of which could materially, adversely affect our business. We have been named as a defendant in litigation, either directly, or indirectly, with the outcome of such litigation being unpredictable; a materially adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. As described below and as described under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in our periodic reports filed pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, from time to time we are named as a defendant in litigation matters. The defense of these claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in each and all of the litigation matters to which we have been a named party, whether directly or indirectly, and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. A materially adverse resolution of any of these lawsuits could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. On March 10, 2010, and subsequent to our fiscal year-end, Atrinsic received final approval of its settlement to its Class Action proceeding in the State of California on Allen v. Atrinsic, Inc. f/k/a New Motion, Inc., pending in Los Angeles County Superior Court. The settlement covers all of the company’s mobile products, web sites and advertizing practices through December 2009. All costs of the settlement and defense were accrued for in 2008, therefore this settlement did not have an impact on the Company’s results of operations in 2009 and will not impact the Company’s results of operations in 2010. As a result of the State of California Settlement and final approval of the judgment, Atrinsic has filed stays, and will file dispositive motions, in the following actions, which it is either directly named in or has assumed the defense of the following cases: Baker v. Sprint Nextel Corp., Motricity, Inc., and New Motion, Inc. pending in Dade County Superior Court in Florida, Stewart v New Motion, Inc. and Motricity, Inc., pending in Hennepin County District Court in Minnesota, Rynearson v. Motricty, Inc, pending in King County Superior Court in Washington Walker v. Motricity, Inc., pending in Alameda County Superior Court in California. Management believes that it has accrued for all probable and estimable related costs of these actions. On February 2, 2009 we filed a complaint, in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles, against Mobile Messenger Americas, Inc. and Mobile Messenger PTY LTD, later amended to name Mobile Messenger Americas Pty, Ltd in place of the latter (collectively, “Mobile Messenger”), to recover monies owed to us in connection with transaction activity incurred in the ordinary and normal course of business. The complaint also sought declaratory relief concerning demands made by Mobile Messenger for indemnification for amounts paid by Mobile Messenger in late 2008 in settlement of a class action lawsuit in Florida, Grey v. Mobile Messenger, et al. (the “Florida Class Action”). Mobile Messenger brought upon us a cross complaint, filed in April 2009, seeking injunctive relief, indemnification for the settlement of the Florida Class Action and other matters, damages allegedly exceeding $17 million, declaratory relief and recoupment of attorneys fees. In November 2009, we reached a settlement of the action in principle with Mobile Messenger. The terms of this settlement are to be confidential but in general will result in a complete dismissal of the entire action, including the cross-complaint, with prejudice. The settlement is not expected to have a material impact on our results from operations, beyond what we have already expensed and accrued for in 2009. We may incur liabilities to tax authorities in excess of amounts that have been accrued which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. As more fully described in note 11 "Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes" to our consolidated financial statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, we have recorded significant income tax liabilities. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires estimates of the amount of income tax that will become payable in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We may be challenged by the taxing authorities in these jurisdictions and, in the event that we are not able to successfully defend our position, we may incur significant additional income tax liabilities and related interest and penalties which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 16 We may be impacted by the affects of the current slowdown of the United States economy. Our performance is subject to United States economic conditions and its impact on levels of consumer spending. Consumer spending recently has deteriorated significantly as a result of the current economic situation in the United States and may remain depressed, or be subject to further deterioration for the foreseeable future. Purchases of our subscription based services as well as our transactional services tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, as disposable income declines. Many factors affect the level of spending for our products and services, including, among others: prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, energy costs, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers or maintain or increase our international operations on a profitable basis. As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by downward trends in the United States or global economy, including the current recession in the United States. The requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley act, including section 404, are burdensome, and our failure to comply with them could have a material adverse affect on the company’s business and stock price. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will need to annually attest to the Company’s evaluation, and issue their own opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting beginning with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. The process of complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant management attention. We cannot be certain that the measures we will undertake will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Furthermore, if we are able to rapidly grow our business, the internal controls over financial reporting that we will need, will become more complex, and significantly more resources will be required to ensure that our internal controls over financial reporting remain effective. Failure to implement required controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our auditors discover a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, the disclosure of that fact, even if the weakness is quickly remedied, could diminish investors’ confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension of trading, ineligibility for listing on one of the Nasdaq Stock Markets or national securities exchanges, and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price. Revenue from our new businesses may be difficult to predict We are devoting resources to service offerings where we have limited operation history. This makes it difficult to predict revenue and could result in longer than expected sales and implementation cycles. 17 ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable ITEM 