ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Canadian and United States securities laws, including the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. From time to time, our public filings, press releases and other communications (such as conference calls and presentations) will contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking information is often, but not always identified by the use of words such as “anticipate”, “believe”, “expect”, “plan”, “intend”, “forecast”, “target”, “project”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “could”, “estimate”, “predict” or similar words suggesting future outcomes or language suggesting an outlook. Forward-looking statements in this document include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to expectations of our prospects, future revenues, earnings, activities and technical results. Forward-looking statements and information are based on current beliefs as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, Tesco concerning our anticipated financial performance, business prospects, strategies and regulatory developments. Although management considers these assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently available to it, they may prove to be incorrect. The forward-looking statements in this document are made as of the date it was issued and we do not undertake any obligation to update publicly or to revise any of the included forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and specific, and risks that outcomes implied by forward-looking statements will not be achieved. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements as a number of important factors could cause the actual results to differ materially from the beliefs, plans, objectives, expectations and anticipations, estimates and intentions expressed in such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the impact of changes in oil and natural gas prices and worldwide and domestic economic conditions on drilling activity and demand for and pricing of our products and services, other risks inherent in the drilling services industry (e.g. operational risks, potential delays or changes in customers’ exploration or development projects or capital expenditures, the uncertainty of estimates and projections relating to levels of rental activities, uncertainty of estimates and projections of costs and expenses, risks in conducting foreign operations, the consolidation of our customers, and intense competition in our industry), and risks associated with our intellectual property and with the performance of our technology. These risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. When relying on our forward-looking statements to make decisions, investors and others should carefully consider the foregoing factors and other uncertainties and potential events. Fluctuations in the demand for and prices of oil and gas could negatively impact our business. Fluctuations in the demand for and prices of oil and gas impact the levels of drilling activity by our customers and potential customers. The prices are primarily determined by supply, demand, government regulations relating to oil and gas production and processing, and international political events, none of which can be accurately predicted. In times of declining activity, not only is there less opportunity for us to sell our products and services but there is increased competitive pressure that tends to reduce prices and therefore margins. We face risks due to the cyclical nature of the energy industry and the corresponding credit risk of our customers. Changing political, economic or military circumstances throughout the energy producing regions of the world can impact the market price of oil and gas for extended periods of time. As most of our accounts receivable are with customers involved in the oil and gas industry, any significant change in circumstances could result in financial exposure in relation to affected customers. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Any significant consolidation or loss of end-user customers could have a negative impact on our business. Exploration and production company operators and drilling contractors have undergone substantial consolidation in the last few years. Additional consolidation is probable. In addition, many oil and gas properties could be transferred over time to different potential customers. Consolidation of drilling contractors results in fewer end-users for our products and could result in the combined contractor standardizing its equipment preferences in favor of a competitor’s products. In addition, merger activity among both major and independent oil and gas companies also affects exploration, development and production activity, as these consolidated companies attempt to increase efficiency and reduce costs. Generally, only the more promising exploration and development projects from each merged entity are likely to be pursued, which may result in overall lower post-merger exploration and development budgets. Moreover, some end-users prefer not to use relatively new products or premium products in their drilling operations. Our CASING DRILLING® technology is relatively new and subject to general market acceptance. We believe our CASING DRILLING® technology provides significant advantages to our customers and potential customers. However, this is relatively new technology, subject to the risk of market acceptance and potential technical problems. Our revenues and earnings are subject to fluctuations period over period and are difficult to forecast. Our revenue and earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending upon: • the level of drilling activity worldwide, as well as the particular geographic focus of the activity; • the variability of customer orders, which are particularly unpredictable in international markets; • the levels of inventories of our products held by end-users and distributors; • the mix of our products sold or leased and the margins on those products; • new products offered and sold or leased by us or our competitors; • weather conditions or other natural disasters that can affect our operations or our customers’ operations; • changes in oil and gas prices and currency exchange rates, which in some cases affect the costs and prices for our products; • the level of capital equipment project orders, which may vary with the level of new rig construction and refurbishment activity in the industry; • changes in drilling and exploration plans which can be particularly volatile in international markets; and • the variability of customer orders or a reduction in customer orders, which may leave us with excess or obsolete inventories. In addition, our fixed costs cause our margins to decrease when demand is low and manufacturing capacity is underutilized. Our foreign operations and investments involve special risks. We sell products and provide services throughout the world. While diversification is desirable, it can expose us to risks related to cultural, political and economic factors of foreign jurisdictions which are beyond our control. As a general rule, we have elected not to carry political risk insurance against these risks. Such risks include: • loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as wars or insurrection; 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the effects of currency fluctuations and exchange controls, such as devaluation of foreign currencies and other economic problems; • changes or interpretations in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, including those associated with changes in the governing parties, nationalization, and expropriation; and • protracted delays in securing government consents, permits, licenses, or other regulatory approvals necessary to conduct our operations. We operate in an intensively competitive industry and if we fail to compete effectively our business will suffer. Competitive risks may include decisions by existing competitors to attempt to increase market share by reducing prices and decisions by customers to adopt competing technologies. The drilling industry is driven primarily by cost minimization. Our strategy is aimed at reducing drilling costs through the application of new technology. Our competitors, many of whom have a more diverse product line and access to greater amounts of capital, have the ability to compete against the cost savings generated by our technology by reducing prices and by introducing competing technologies. We have limited resources to sustain a prolonged price war and maintain the investment required to continue the commercialization and development of its new technologies. To compete in our industry, we must continue to develop new technologies and products. The markets for our products and services are characterized by continual technological developments and we have identified our products as providing technological advantages over other competitive products. As a result, substantial improvements in the scope and quality of product function and performance can occur over a short period of time. If we are not able to develop commercially competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in technology, our business may be adversely affected. Our future ability to develop new products depends on our ability to: • design and commercially produce products that meet the needs of our customers; • successfully market new products; and • obtain and maintain patent protection. We may encounter resource constraints, technical barriers, or other difficulties that may delay introduction of new products and services in the future. Our competitors may introduce new products or obtain patents before we do and achieve a competitive advantage. Additionally, the time and expense invested in product development may not result in commercial applications. For example, from time to time, we have incurred significant losses in the development of new technologies which were not successful for various commercial or technical reasons. If we are unable to successfully implement technological or research and engineering type activities, our growth prospects may be reduced and our future revenues may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, we may experience operating losses after new products are introduced and commercialized because of high start-up costs, unexpected manufacturing costs or problems, or lack of demand. We have been the subject of infringement claims and we may not be able to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. In two separate actions, we were sued by VARCO I/P, Inc. and Franks International, Inc. who have alleged that our CDS™ tool violates certain of their patents. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” Our CDS™ tool is used in our tubular services and casing running service. We believe that these suits are without merit and we intend to continue to defend ourselves vigorously. In the event that we are not successful in defending ourselves in one or both of these matters, it would have a material adverse effect on our Casing Services Segment and, therefore, on our business. In addition, in the future we may be subject to other infringement claims and if any of our products were found to be infringing, our financial results may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Some of our products and the processes used to produce them have been granted U.S. and international patent protection, or have patent applications pending. Nevertheless, patents may not be granted from our applications and, if patents are issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficient to protect our technology. In addition, we are currently involved in legal proceedings regarding our patents. Our competitors may be able to independently develop technology that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents. This is especially true internationally where the protection of intellectual property rights may not be as effective. In addition, obtaining and maintaining intellectual property protection internationally may be significantly more expensive than doing so domestically. We may have to spend substantial time and money defending our patents. After our patents expire, our competitors will not be legally constrained from developing products substantially similar to ours. We rely on the availability of raw materials, component parts and finished products to produce our products. We buy raw material and components from many different vendors located in Canada, the United States and Europe. In order to manufacture many of our proprietary parts, we purchase large steel forgings. The price and lead times for the forgings have increased along with the general increase of steel prices around the world. Further, uncertainty regarding compliance with certain material toughness specifications as identified in 2005 made it necessary for us to order additional forgings to manufacture certain replacement parts. We also source a substantial amount of electrical components, including permanent magnet motors and drives as well as a substantial amount of hydraulic components, including hydraulic motors, from suppliers located in the U.S. The inability of suppliers to meet performance, quality specifications and delivery schedules could cause delays in manufacturing and make it difficult or impossible for us to meet outstanding orders or accept new orders for the manufacture of the affected equipment. The design of some of our equipment is based on components provided by specific sole source manufacturers. Some of our products have been designed around components which are only available from one source of supply. In some cases, a manufacturer has developed or modified the design of a component at our request, and consequently we are the only purchaser of such items. If the manufacturer of such an item should go out of business or cease or refuse to manufacture the component in question, or raise the price of such components unduly, we may have to identify alternative components and redesign portions of our equipment. This could cause delays in manufacturing and make it difficult or impossible for us to meet outstanding orders or accept new orders for the manufacture of the affected equipment. Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and key employees, and the loss of such employees could result in the failure to implement our business plans. As a technology based company, we depend upon skilled engineering and other professionals in order to engage in product innovation and ensure the effective implementation of our innovative technology, especially CASING DRILLING®. We compete for these professionals, not only with other companies in the same industry, but with oil and gas service companies generally and other industries. In periods of high energy and industrial manufacturing activity, demand for the skills and expertise of these professionals increase, which can make the hiring and retention of these individuals more difficult and expensive. Failure to recruit and retain such individuals may result in our inability to maintain a competitive advantage over other companies and loss of customer satisfaction. The loss or incapacity of certain key employees for any reason, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Julio Quintana, or our Chief Technology Officer, Robert Tessari, could have a negative impact on our ability to implement our business plan due to the specialized knowledge these individuals possess. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Both the Top Drive and Casing Services segments rely on the skills and availability of trained and experienced trades and technicians to provide efficient and necessary services to us and our customers. Hiring and retaining such individuals are critical to the success of our business plan. Retention of staff and the prevention of injury to staff are essential in order to provide high level of service. We are subject to risks relating to potential liability claims. Most of our products are used in hazardous drilling and production applications where an accident or a failure of a product can have catastrophic consequences. For example, the unexpected failure of a top drive to rotate a drill string during drilling operations could result in the loss of control over a well, leading to blowout and the discharge of pollutants into the environment. Damages arising from an occurrence at a location where our products are used have in the past and may in the future result in the assertion of potentially large claims against us. While we maintain insurance coverage against these risks, and attempt to limit our exposure to such risks through contracts with our customers, these measures may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of hole, damaged or lost drilling equipment, damage or loss from inclement weather or natural disasters, and losses resulting from business interruption. Our insurance coverage generally provides that we assume a portion of the risk in the form of a self-insured retention, and may not be adequate in risk coverage or policy limits to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. Moreover, we may not be able in the future to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any significant claims made under our policies will likely cause our premiums to increase. Any future damages caused by our products or services that are not covered by insurance, are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could reduce the our earnings and cash available for operations. We provide warranties on our products and if our products fail to operate properly our business will suffer. We provide warranties as to the proper operation and conformance to specifications of the equipment we manufacture. Our products are often deployed in harsh environments including subsea applications. The failure of these products to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources and services, replacement of parts and equipment or monetary reimbursement to a customer. We have in the past received warranty claims and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. Such claims may exceed the reserve we have set aside for them. To the extent that we incur substantial warranty claims in any period, our reputation, ability to obtain future business and earnings could be materially and adversely affected. Our debt and other financing obligations restrict our ability to take certain actions and require the maintenance of certain financial ratios; failure to comply with these requirements could result in acceleration of our debt. Our debt and other financing obligations contain restrictive covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could preclude us or our subsidiaries from issuing letters of credit, from borrowing under our credit agreements and could accelerate our debt and other financing obligations and those of our subsidiaries. If this were to occur, we might not be able to repay such debt and other financing obligations. Additionally, our credit agreements are collateralized by equity interests in all of our subsidiaries. A breach of the covenants under these agreements could permit the lenders to exercise their rights to foreclose on these collateral interests. We are subject to legal proceedings and may, in the future, be subject to additional legal proceedings. We are currently involved in legal proceedings described in Part I, Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below. From time to time, we may become subject to additional legal proceedings which may include employment, tort, intellectual property, tax and other claims. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former, current 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements or prospective employees from time to time, alleging violations of employment-related laws. Lawsuits or claims could result in decisions against us which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks could materially impact our business. The occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the United States and other developed countries. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause a decrease in spending by oil and gas companies for exploration and development. In addition, these risks could trigger increased volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas which could also adversely affect spending by oil and gas companies. A decrease in spending for any reason could adversely affect the markets for our products and thereby adversely affect our revenue and margins and limit our future growth prospects. Moreover, these risks could cause increased instability in the financial and insurance markets and adversely affect our ability to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate or are required to obtain by our contracts with third parties. Environmental compliance and remediation costs and the costs of environmental liabilities could exceed our estimates. The energy industry is affected by changes in public policy, federal, state and local laws and regulations. The adoption of laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental and other policy reasons may adversely affect our operations due to our customers having limited drilling and other opportunities in the oil and gas exploration and production industry. The operations of our customers, as well as our properties, are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges, waste management and workplace safety. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. Our management has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2006 as a result of certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, this Form 10-K includes an adverse opinion from PricewatehouseCoopers LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, on our internal control over financial reporting. A description of the material weaknesses is included in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” in this Form 10-K. The material weaknesses could result in a misstatement of substantially all of our accounts and disclosures, which would result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Errors in our financial statements could require a restatement or prevent us from timely filing our periodic reports with the SEC. Additionally, inadequate internal control over financial reporting could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading of our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 