ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Dependence on Individual Products, Product Lines and the Joint Care Category. Certain products and product lines (particularly in the joint care category) account for a significant amount of our total net sales. Net sales of our Schiff Move Free brand were approximately 48%, 48% and 40%, respectively, of total net sales for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. Due to the divestitures of our Weider branded business and Haleko Unit, our concentration in the Move Free brand and the joint care category has increased. We cannot assure you that Move Free or other of our products currently experiencing strong popularity and growth will maintain sales or margin levels over time. A significant decrease in Move Free or joint care category sales could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Dependence on Significant Customers. Our largest customers are Costco and Wal-Mart. Combined, these two customers accounted for approximately 69%, 70% and 72%, respectively, of our total net sales for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. Due to the divestitures of our Weider branded business and Haleko Unit, our concentration in these customers has increased. We do not have supply contracts with either Costco or Wal-Mart and therefore cannot assure you that either Costco or Wal-Mart will continue to be significant customers in the future. The loss of either Costco or Wal-Mart as a customer, or a significant reduction in purchase volume by Costco or Wal-Mart, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 9 QuickLinks (Click to quickly navigate through this document) Effect of Unfavorable Publicity. We believe sales of our products are highly dependent on consumer perception of the safety, quality and efficacy of our products as well as similar or other nutritional supplement products distributed and sold by other companies. Consumer perception of our products can be significantly influenced by scientific research or findings, regulatory investigations, litigation, national media attention, and other publicity regarding our products and other nutritional supplements, including publicity regarding the legality or quality of particular ingredients or products or the nutritional supplement market in general. From time to time, there is unfavorable publicity, scientific research, litigation, regulatory proceedings and other media attention regarding our industry. There has recently been unfavorable publicity regarding items imported from China, where we source a large amount of our raw materials. There can be no assurance that future publicity, scientific research or findings, litigation, regulatory proceedings, or media attention will be favorable to the nutritional supplement market or any particular product or ingredient, or consistent with earlier favorable publicity, research, findings, litigation, proceedings or media attention. Adverse publicity, media attention, research, findings, litigation, proceedings or other reports, whether or not accurate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, adverse publicity, reports or other media attention regarding the safety, quality, or efficacy of our products or ingredients or nutritional supplement products or ingredients in general, or associating the consumption of our products or ingredients or nutritional supplement products or ingredients in general with illness or other adverse effects, whether or not scientifically supported or accurate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks of Competition and Pricing Pressures. The market for the sale of nutritional supplements is highly competitive. Many of our principal competitors have greater financial and other resources available to them and possess extensive manufacturing, distribution and marketing capabilities. Private label products of our customers, the number of which has been significantly increasing in certain nutrition categories (including joint care), also create significant pricing pressure and competition with our products. Because nutritional supplements can be purchased in various channels of distribution, we also compete with products sold outside of the mass market retail channel, including health food stores, direct sales, direct mail and internet distribution channels. Increased competition from competitors, including expansion of private label products, or increased pricing pressure, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Among other factors, competition among manufacturers, distributors and retailers of nutritional supplements is based upon price. Because of the high degree of price competition, we have not always been able to pass on increases in raw material prices to our customers. If one or more of our competitors significantly reduce their prices in order to gain market share (particularly relating to the joint care category), or if raw material prices increase and we are unable to pass along the increased cost to our customers (particularly relating to the joint care category), our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Raw Material Price Increases. Raw materials account for a significant portion of our manufacturing costs. We have encountered material fluctuations in the pricing of key raw materials in the past, particularly relating to joint care category products. During fiscal 2005 and continuing into fiscal 2006, we experienced margin volatility due to several factors, including significant raw material pricing increases in the joint care category. During fiscal 2005 and early fiscal 2006, as a result of the raw material pricing volatility and the inability to secure acceptable price increases from customers, we discontinued certain private label (contract manufacturing) business. During fiscal 2006 and continuing into fiscal 2007, raw material pricing in the joint care category decreased and appears to be relatively stable. However, the price of key raw materials may not remain relatively constant. Historically, we have not always been able to pass along raw material price increases, and may not be able to do so in the future. Significant increases in raw material prices, particularly relating to the joint care category, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Dependence on Third-Party Suppliers. We acquire all of our raw materials for the manufacture of our products from third parties. A considerable portion of our raw materials relates to our joint care category, which accounts for a significant amount of our total net sales. We cannot assure you that suppliers will provide the raw materials we need in the quantities requested, at a price we are willing to pay or that meet our quality standards and labeling requirements. We typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers. However, we have a long-term supply and license agreement with a third-party supplier for a key ingredient used in our Move Free Advanced product. While the contract provides for the continuing supply of this ingredient, we cannot assure you that the supplier will continue to supply this ingredient in the quantities we require, or at all. We do not have an alternate supplier for this ingredient. See “Item 1 – Business – Intellectual Property” and “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Risks Associated with Intellectual Property Rights and Proprietary 10 QuickLinks (Click to quickly navigate through this document) Techniques.” In addition, from time to time, we enter into forward purchase commitments regarding certain raw materials, primarily relating to the joint care category. We cannot assure you that the suppliers will supply the raw materials in accordance with the terms of the forward purchase commitments, or at all. Any significant failure to supply or changes in the material terms of supply by the Move Free Advanced key ingredient supplier or our other raw materials suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to potential delays in the delivery of raw materials caused by events beyond our control, including, among other factors, strikes or labor disputes, transportation interruptions, weather-related events, natural disasters or other catastrophic events, and changes in government regulations. Any significant delay in or disruption of the supply of raw materials could, among other things, substantially increase the cost of such materials, require reformulation or repackaging of products, require the qualification of new suppliers, or result in our inability to meet customer demands for certain products. The occurrence of any of the foregoing, particularly with respect to raw materials needed for our joint care products, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Dependence on Raw Materials Acquired From Suppliers Outside the United States. We acquire a significant amount of key ingredients for a number of our products (particularly joint care products) from suppliers outside of the United States, particularly China. Accordingly, the acquisition of these ingredients is subject to the risks generally associated with importing raw materials, including, among other factors, delays in shipments, changes in economic and political conditions, quality assurance, nonconformity to specifications or laws and regulations, tariffs, trade disputes and foreign currency fluctuations. While we have a supplier certification program and periodically audit and inspect our suppliers’ facilities both in the United States and internationally, we cannot assure you that raw materials received from suppliers outside of the United States will conform to all specifications, laws and regulations. There has recently been quality and safety issues with certain items imported from China, where we source a large amount of our raw materials. We may incur additional expenses and experience shipment delays due to preventative measures adopted by the Chinese and U.S. governments, our suppliers and our company. In addition, the discovery of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, commonly referred to as “mad cow disease,” in a country from which we obtain a significant amount of our raw materials (particularly related to the joint care category) derived from bovine sources could prevent us from purchasing such raw materials in the required quantities, at an acceptable price or at all. The occurrence of any of the foregoing, particularly with respect to raw materials needed for our joint care products, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Associated with Intellectual Property Rights and Proprietary Techniques. Although the nutritional supplement industry has historically been characterized by products with naturally occurring ingredients in capsule or tablet form, recently it is becoming more common for suppliers and competitors to apply for patents or develop proprietary technologies and processes. Although we make efforts not to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our intellectual property licensors. To the extent that these developments prevent us from, or increase the cost of, offering or supplying competitive products or our licensed proprietary ingredient in the marketplace, or result in litigation or threatened litigation against us related to alleged or actual infringement of third-party rights, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We protect our intellectual property related to investments in research and development by relying on trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements with third parties who have access to information about our research and development activities. When we license our trademarks, proprietary ingredients or other intellectual property from a third party, we typically have contractual rights to require the licensor to adequately protect our intellectual property interests. Nevertheless, we cannot guarantee that such measures will be sufficient to protect our interests. Our Move Free Advanced product contains a key ingredient, the rights for which we license from a third-party supplier pursuant to a long-term supply and license agreement. Our supplier has patents and patents pending relating to the key ingredient, and has granted us exclusive rights to market and sell the ingredient for joint care purposes in certain territories and classes of trade. However, our supplier is currently in litigation with third parties alleging patent infringement in connection with the sale of the key ingredient by third parties in products similar to our Move Free Advanced product. We cannot assure you that our supplier will prevail in such litigation or be successful in preventing third parties from selling the key ingredient in their competing products. This could have a material adverse effect on our Move Free Advanced sales, results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 1 – Business – Manufacturing and Product Quality” and “— Intellectual Property.” 11 QuickLinks (Click to quickly navigate through this document) Risks Associated with International Markets. Until the sale of our Weider branded business and Haleko Unit, we had significant international operations, with approximately 30% of our net sales for fiscal 2005 generated outside the United States. Our international sales efforts are now comprised of selling products, particularly our joint care products, from the United States on an export basis to retail customers or distributors abroad. Operating in international markets exposes us to certain risks, including, among others, difficulty in understanding and complying with foreign regulations, changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may further limit our ability to sell certain products or ingredients in certain countries, the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions or increased tariffs, difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations, difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable, potentially longer payment cycles, and political instability. We are often required to reformulate our products before commencing distribution in a given country. We must comply with various and changing local labeling, customs and other regulations. Trademark rights are often difficult to obtain and enforce in countries outside the United States. There is also no assurance that we will be able to obtain and retain the necessary permits and approvals required for our international efforts. The importance of these and other risks relating to exporting goods to foreign countries increases as our export business grows and expands. During fiscal 2007 and continuing into fiscal 2008, we are attempting to increase our distribution of joint care products in international markets. Our inability to successfully launch and maintain sales (especially in the joint care category) outside of the United States while maintaining the integrity of the products sold and complying with local regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Inability to Launch New Products and Product Enhancements. We believe our ability to grow in existing markets is partially dependent upon our ability to introduce new and innovative products and product enhancements. The development and commercialization process, particularly relating to innovative products, is both time-consuming and costly and involves a high degree of business risk. Although we seek to introduce additional products each year, the success of new products or product enhancements is subject to a number of variables, including developing products that will appeal to customers, accurately anticipate consumer needs, be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, be priced competitively, be differentiated from those of our competitors, and comply with applicable regulations. The inability to successfully implement marketing and spending programs or strategic initiatives in support of our branded products or product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our efforts to develop and introduce new products or existing product innovations will be successful, or that customers will accept new products. The failure to successfully launch or gain distribution for new product offerings or product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Product Liability and Litigation. As a manufacturer and distributor of products designed to be ingested, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims and litigation if our products are alleged to have caused significant loss or injury. In addition, the manufacture and sale of our products involve the risk of injury to consumers due to tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination. Our products consist of vitamins, minerals, herbs, and other ingredients that are classified as dietary supplements or foods, and generally are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the United States. Some of our products contain ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption, and may not have the effects intended. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these, other of our ingredients, or combinations of ingredients could occur. We have been, and in the future may be, subject to various product liability claims, including, among others, that our products caused injury or illness, that our products include inadequate instructions for use, or that our products include inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects or interactions with other substances. A product liability claim against us could result in increased costs, could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and consumers, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are party to various lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business and may become party to others. While none of the lawsuits in which we are involved as of the date of this filing are reasonably believed to be material, it is possible that future litigation could arise, or that developments could occur in existing litigation, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Insurance Coverage Limitations and Exclusions. We maintain insurance relating to the operation of our business, including, among other coverages, property, general and product liability, workers’ compensation, and directors’ and officers’ liability policies. However, our insurance coverage is subject to large individual claim deductibles for certain policies, individual claim and aggregate policy limits, and other terms and conditions. In addition, our current product liability coverage excludes claims relating to certain categories of products and products that contain certain ingredients. Certain damages in litigation, such as punitive damages, also are generally not covered by insurance. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover our losses, that future insurance coverage will not contain additional exclusions or limitations, that we will be able to continue to obtain insurance coverage, or that insurance coverage will be available at an economically reasonable cost. In the event that we do not have adequate or any insurance, product liability claims, litigation or other losses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 QuickLinks (Click to quickly navigate through this document) Impact of Government Regulation on Our Operations. Our business operations, including the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our products, are subject to regulation by various foreign, federal, state and local government entities and agencies, particularly the FDA and FTC in the United States. See “Item 1 - Business - Government Regulation.” Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in changes in product labeling, packaging, or advertising, product reformulations, additional recordkeeping requirements, injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines or criminal prosecution. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of our efforts to comply with applicable statutes and regulations, from time to time we have reformulated, eliminated or relabeled certain of our products and revised certain aspects of our sales, marketing and advertising programs. We cannot assure you that we will not have to make such changes or revisions in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The FDA has recently published extensive GMP’s for dietary supplements. See “Item 1 - Business - Government Regulation.” Based on our current number of employees, we are required to comply with the new GMP’s by May 2009. While we do not currently expect the incremental cost of compliance efforts to be material, we cannot assure you that, in complying with the new GMP requirements, we will not incur substantial costs that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In markets outside the United States, before commencing operations or marketing our products, we may be required to obtain approvals, licenses or certifications from a country’s ministry of health or comparable agency. Approvals or licensing may be conditioned on reformulation of products or may be unavailable with respect to certain products or product ingredients. We must also comply with product labeling and packaging regulations that vary from country to country. Furthermore, the regulations of these countries may conflict with those in the United States and with each other. The cost of complying with these various and potentially conflicting regulations can be substantial and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may also be subject to additional laws or regulations administered by federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities, the repeal or amendment of laws or regulations which we consider favorable, such as DSHEA, or more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. Additional or more stringent legislation and regulations regarding the nutritional supplement industry have been considered from time to time. We are unable to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, nor can we predict what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, would have on our business in the future. Any or all of these requirements and the related costs to comply with such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Possibility of Product Recalls. Manufacturers and distributors of products in our industry are sometimes subject to the recall of their products for a variety of reasons, including product defects, such as ingredient contamination, packaging safety and inadequate or inaccurate labeling disclosure. If any of our products are recalled due to a product defect or for any other reason, we could be required to incur the unexpected expense of the recall and any legal proceedings that might arise in connection with the recall. In addition, a product recall may require significant management attention. We acquire all of our raw materials for the manufacture of our products from third parties. Although we have procedures in place for testing raw materials used in our products, we cannot assure you that any quality, potency or contamination problems will be detected in time to avoid unforeseen product recalls or lawsuits. There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover these expenses from our suppliers. Additionally, if one of our significant brands were subject to recall, the image of that brand and our company could be harmed. A recall for any of the foregoing reasons could lead to decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Dependence on Single Manufacturing Facility. We manufacture most of our products at our manufacturing facility in Salt Lake City, Utah. Accordingly, we are highly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facility. Power failures, the breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, the improper installation or operation of equipment, workforce disruptions, natural or other disasters, or the failure to comply with laws or regulations or the requirements or directives of government agencies, including the FDA, could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While we do carry business interruption insurance, we cannot assure you that our coverage will be sufficient to cover losses from these types of business disruptions or that this insurance will continue to be available to us at an acceptable price, if at all. Inability to Consummate Successful Acquisitions and Investments. An element of our strategy includes expanding our product offerings, enhancing business development and gaining access to new skills and other resources through strategic acquisitions and investments when attractive opportunities arise. We cannot assure you that attractive acquisition opportunities will be available to us, that we will be able to obtain financing for or otherwise consummate any acquisitions or that any acquisitions which are consummated will prove to be successful. 13 QuickLinks (Click to quickly navigate through this document) Dependence Upon Information Technology Systems. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, reliability and proper use of sophisticated and dependable information processing systems and management information technology. Our information technology systems are designed and selected in order to facilitate order entry and customer billing, maintain customer records, accurately track purchases, manage accounting, finance and manufacturing operations, generate reports, and provide customer service and technical support. Although off-site data back-up is maintained, an interruption in these systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Control by Principal Stockholder. WHF owns all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, representing over 90% of the aggregate voting power of all outstanding shares of our common stock. Three of our directors also serve on the board of directors of WHF. WHF is in a position to exercise control over us and to determine the outcome of all matters required to be submitted to stockholders for approval (except as otherwise provided by law or by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws) and otherwise to direct and control our operations. Accordingly, we cannot engage in any strategic transactions without the approval of WHF. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff. ITEM 