ITEM 1A. Risk factors You should carefully consider the following factors and all other information contained in this Form 10-K before you make any investment decisions with respect to our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks we face. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred losses since inception and could incur losses in the future, and we have a substantial accumulated deficit and a substantial working capital deficit, which means that we may not be able to continue operations. We have incurred substantial operating losses since inception, and could continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. To succeed, we must develop new client and customer relationships and substantially increase our revenue derived from improved products and additional value-added services. We have expended, and to the extent we have available financing, we intend to continue to expend, substantial resources to develop and improve our products, increase our value-added services and to market our products and services. These development and marketing expenses must be incurred well in advance of the recognition of revenue. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. A number of factors could increase our operating expenses, such as: · adapting corporate infrastructure and administrative resources to accommodate additional customers and future growth; 8 · developing products, distribution, marketing, and management for the broadest-possible market; · broadening customer technical support capabilities; · developing or acquiring new products and associated technical infrastructure; · developing additional indirect distribution partners; · increased costs from third party service providers; · improving data security features; and · legal fees and settlements associated with litigation and contingencies. To the extent that increases in operating expenses are not offset by increases in revenues, operating losses will increase. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which contemplate our continuation as a going concern. Net loss for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $40.6 million and $68.4 million, respectively. Net cash used for operations was $8.3 million and $9.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also have an accumulated deficit of $201.6 million and a working capital deficit of $85.5 million as of December 31, 2007. We have an obligation as of December 31, 2007 of $4.5 million relating to purchase price guarantee associated with our acquisition of 12Snap. The items discussed above raise substantial doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. We will need to raise additional funds to continue our operations. We had cash balances of $1.4 million as of December 31, 2007. Additionally, during January 2008 we sold our remaining ten percent (10%) ownership interest in 12Snap resulting in net cash to us of $0.8 million. In order to satisfy our obligations that are currently due and that will come due, and maintain our operations in the absence of a material increase in revenues, we will need to raise additional cash from outside sources. In the event that i) our stock price does not increase to levels where we can force exercise of enough of our outstanding warrants to generate material operating capital, ii) the market for our stock will not support the sale of shares underlying such warrants or other funding sources, or iii) we do not realize a material increase in revenue during the next twelve (12) months, we will have to seek additional cash sources. There can be no assurances that such funding sources will be available. If necessary funds are not available, our business and operations would be materially adversely affected and in such event, we would be forced to attempt to reduce costs and adjust our business plan, and could be forced to sell certain of our assets, including but not limited to, our remaining subsidiaries and curtail or cease our operations. Our management and Board of Directors may be unable to execute their plans to turn around the Company, grow our revenues and achieve profitability and positive cash flows. In February 2007 we added George O’Leary to our Board of Directors. In June 2007, the previous CEO was replaced by William J. Hoffman as Chief Executive Officer, and since that time we have also added several key executives to our management team. If our new CEO is unable to attract and retain management to execute our plans, or if management and the Board of Directors are unable to execute those plans, then we may fail to grow our revenues, contain costs and achieve profitability and positive cash flows. 9 Because our historical financial information is not representative of our future results, investors and analysts will have difficulty analyzing our future earnings potential. Because we have grown through acquisitions and our past operating results reflect the costs of integrating these acquisitions, as well as revenues from operations which have now been sold, historical results are not representative of future expected operating results. We have recognized very sizable charges and expenditures in the past for impairment charges and discontinued operations. Because these items are not recurring, it is more difficult for investors to predict future results. We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that may prevent us from being able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could harm our business and operating results. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we assess, and our independent registered public accounting firm attest to, the design and operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot provide reliable and accurate financial reports and prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We have identified five (5) material weaknesses in our internal control as of December 31, 2007. These matters and our efforts regarding remediation of these matters, as well as efforts regarding internal controls generally are discussed in detail in Part II, Item 9A(T), Controls and Procedures, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, as our material weaknesses in our internal controls demonstrate, we cannot be certain that the remedial measures we have taken to date will ensure that we design, implement, and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Additionally, since the requirements of Section 404 are ongoing and apply for future years, we cannot be certain that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify additional deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future, in addition to those identified as of December 31, 2007. Remedying the material weaknesses that have been presently identified, and any additional deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify in the future, could in the future require us to incur significant costs, hire additional personnel, expend significant time and management resources or make other changes. Any delay or failure to design and implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. Disclosure of our material weaknesses, any failure to remediate such material weaknesses in a timely fashion or having or maintaining ineffective internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. We have guaranteed the value of stock issued in connection with prior-year mergers through the registration of the shares, which could result in a material cash liability. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement with 12Snap, we were obligated to compensate the sellers in cash for the difference between the price at the time the shares become saleable and the price the shares were valued for purposes of the merger agreement. At the time the shares became saleable, such obligation amounted to $16.2 million. On March 19, 2007, we issued 197,620,948 shares valued at $9.4 million as partial settlement of the $16.2 million obligation, leaving a balance of $6.8 million after the stock payment. Also during 2007, we made payments of $0.5 million and negotiated a reduction of $1.76 million in the obligation, leaving a balance at year-end of $4.5 million in purchase price guarantees, the entire balance of which is currently due and payable. 10 All of our assets are pledged to secure certain debt obligations, which we could fail to repay and could result in the foreclosure upon our assets. Pursuant to our secured convertible debentures issued to YA Global Investments, LP (fka Cornell Capital Partners LP and herewith “Yorkville”), in the principal amounts of $7.5 million, $5.0 million, $2.5 million and $1.8 million, dated March 27, 2007, August 24, 2006, December 29, 2006 and August 24, 2007, respectively, we were required to secure the convertible debentures’ repayment with substantially all of our assets. In the event we are unable to repay the secured convertible debentures, we could lose all of our assets and be forced to cease our operations. As of December 31, 2006, we were in default of the Investor Registration Rights Agreement pursuant to the August 24, 2006 and December 29, 2006 Agreements and as a result, the full fair value of the secured convertible debentures are callable in the amount of $5 million and $2.5 million, respectively, and Yorkville could foreclose on our assets if we are unable to pay these amounts. Prior to the default, we were accreting dividends on the Series C convertible preferred stock, using the effective interest method, through periodic charges to additional paid in capital. Due to the default status, we accreted dividends to the full face value as of December 31, 2006 of the Series C convertible preferred stock, resulting in an additional charge of $18.2 million to net loss attributable to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2006. The Series C convertible preferred stock is now reported as demand debt in the current liabilities section of the balance sheet, pursuant to the guidance outlined in FAS 150. There is limited information upon which investors can evaluate our business because the physical-world-to-internet market has existed for only a short period of time. The physical-world-to-internet market in which we operate is a recently developed market. Further, we have conducted operations in this market only since March 1996. Consequently, we have a relatively limited operating history upon which an investor may base an evaluation of our primary business and determine our prospects for achieving our intended business objectives. To date, we have had limited sales of our physical-world-to-internet products. We are prone to all of the risks inherent to the establishment of any new business venture, including unforeseen changes in our business plan. An investor should consider the likelihood of our future success to be highly speculative in light of our limited operating history in our primary market, as well as the limited resources, problems, expenses, risks, and complications frequently encountered by similarly situated companies in new and rapidly evolving markets, such as the physical-world-to-internet space. To address these risks, we must, among other things: · maintain and increase our client base; · implement and successfully execute our business and marketing strategy; · continue to develop and upgrade our products; · continually update and improve service offerings and features; · respond to industry and competitive developments; and · attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. We may not be successful in addressing these risks. If we are unable to do so, our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends on the timely introduction of new products and the acceptance of these new products in the marketplace. Rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions are typical for the markets we serve. Our future success will depend in large part on continuous, timely development and introduction of new products that address evolving market requirements. To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, we may lose market share to our competitors, which may be difficult to regain. Any inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new products could materially and adversely affect our business. 11 Our common stock is deemed to be “Penny Stock” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These requirements may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Penny stocks are stock: · with a price of less than $5.00 per share; · that are not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; · whose prices are not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ listed stock must still have a price of not less than $5.00 per share); or · in issuers with net tangible assets less than $2 million (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $10 million (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6 million for the last three years. Broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker-dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. Existing shareholders will experience significant dilution when certain investors convert their preferred stock to common stock, convert outstanding convertible debentures or when the investors exercise their warrants and receive common stock shares under the investment agreement with the investors. The issuance of shares of common stock pursuant to the conversion of Series C convertible preferred stock, the conversion of convertible debentures or the exercise of warrants pursuant to our transactions with Yorkville will have a dilutive impact on our stockholders. As a result, our net income or loss per share could decrease in future periods, and the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the lower our stock price is, the more shares of common stock we will have to issue pursuant to the conversion of preferred stock or the convertible debentures. If our stock price is lower, then existing stockholders would experience greater dilution. Due to accounting treatment of certain convertible preferred stock and convertible debenture instruments issued by us, a fluctuation in our stock price could have a material impact on our results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized a loss in the amount of $7.6 million resulting from adjustments recorded to reflect the change in fair value from revaluation of warrants and embedded conversion features in connection with our Series C convertible preferred stock and our convertible debentures. We will adjust the carrying value of our derivative instruments to market at each balance sheet date. As a result, we could experience significant fluctuations in our net income (loss) in future periods from such charges based on corresponding movement in our share price. 12 We are uncertain of the success of our mobile business and the failure of this business would negatively affect the price of our stock. We provide products and services that provide a link from physical objects, including printed material, to the mobile internet. We can provide no assurance that: · our mobile business unit will ever achieve profitability; · our current product offerings will not be adversely affected by the focusing of our resources on the physical-world-to-internet space; or · the products we develop will obtain market acceptance. In the event that our mobile business unit should never achieve profitability, that our current product offerings should so suffer, or that our products fail to obtain market acceptance, our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. A large percentage of our assets are intangible assets, which will have little or no value if our operations are unsuccessful. At December 31, 2007, approximately seventy (70%) of our total assets used in continuing operations were intangible assets and goodwill, consisting primarily of rights related to our patents, other intellectual property, and excess of purchase price over fair market value paid for Gavitec. If our operations are unsuccessful, these assets will have little or no value, which would materially adversely affect the value of our stock and the ability of our stockholders to recoup their investments in our stock. We review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, resulting in an impact on results of operations. Certain of our emerging products and services have limited history and may not result in success. To date, we have conducted limited marketing efforts directly relating to our emerging technology products, consisting primarily of the NeoReaderTM suite of products, and certain products of Gavitec. Many of our marketing efforts with respect to these emerging technologies have been largely untested in the marketplace, and may not result in materially increased sales of these emerging products and services. To penetrate the emerging markets in which we compete, we expect that we will have to exert significant efforts to create awareness of, and demand for, our emerging products and services. To the extent funding is available, we intend to continue to expand our sales and marketing resources as the market continues to mature. Our failure to further develop our sales and marketing capabilities and successfully market our emerging products and services would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Our internally developed systems are inefficient and may put us at a competitive disadvantage. We use internally developed technologies for a portion of our systems integration services, as well as the technologies required to interconnect our clients’ and customers’ physical-world-to-internet systems and hardware with our own. As we develop these systems in order to integrate disparate systems and hardware on a case-by-case basis, these systems are inefficient and require a significant amount of customization. Such client and customer-specific customization is time consuming and costly and may place us at a competitive disadvantage when compared to competitors with more efficient systems. 13 We could fail to attract or retain key personnel, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract, train, and retain additional highly skilled executive level management, creative, technical, and sales personnel. Competition is intense for these types of personnel from other technology companies and more established organizations, many of which have significantly larger operations and greater financial, marketing, human, and other resources than we have. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in integrating our Gavitec acquisition with our current business, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. The success of the acquisition of Gavitec could depend on the ability of our executive management to integrate the business plan of Gavitec with our overall business plan. Failure to properly integrate the business could have a material adverse effect on the expected revenue and operations of the acquisition, as well as the expected return on investment for us. We acquired Gavitec during the first quarter of 2006, when we also acquired four other businesses – Mobot, Sponge, 12Snap and NeoMedia Telecom Services, each of which have been subsequently divested, less than two (2) years after acquisition. As a result of these divestitures, we have experienced a substantial decrease in revenues, operating losses and consolidated assets in the current year as compared to the prior year. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Gavitec accounted for approximately seventy-one percent (71%) of our consolidated revenues, and approximately one percent (1%) of our consolidated net loss. In addition, Gavitec assets represented approximately five percent (5%) of our consolidated assets as of December 31, 2007. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and may be liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our success in the physical-world-to-internet market is dependent upon our proprietary technology, including patents and other intellectual property, and on the ability to protect proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. In addition, we must conduct our operations without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We also intend to rely upon unpatented trade secrets and the know-how and expertise of our employees, as well as our patents. To protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property, we rely primarily on a combination of the protections provided by applicable patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws as well as on confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements. Although we believe that we have taken appropriate steps to protect our unpatented proprietary rights, including requiring that our employees and third parties who are granted access to our proprietary technology enter into confidentiality agreements, we can provide no assurance that these measures will be sufficient to protect our rights against third parties. Others may independently develop or otherwise acquire patented or unpatented technologies or products similar or superior to ours. We license from third parties certain software tools that are included in our services and products. If any of these licenses were terminated, we could be required to seek licenses for similar software from other third parties or develop these tools internally. We may not be able to obtain such licenses or develop such tools in a timely fashion, on acceptable terms, or at all. Companies participating in the software and internet technology industries are frequently involved in disputes relating to intellectual property. We may in the future be required to defend our intellectual property rights against infringement, duplication, discovery, and misappropriation by third parties or to defend against third party claims of infringement. Likewise, disputes may arise in the future with respect to ownership of technology developed by employees who were previously employed by other companies. Any such litigation or disputes could result in substantial costs to, and a diversion of resources by us. An adverse determination could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from, or pay royalties to, third parties, or require us to develop appropriate alternative technology. Some or all of these licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and we may be unable to develop alternate technology at an acceptable price or at all. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. 14 We are exposed to product liability claims and an uninsured claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as the value of our stock. Many of our projects are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses. Any failure in a client’s information system could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. We could, therefore, be subject to claims in connection with the products and services that we sell. We currently maintain product liability insurance. There can be no assurance that: · We have contractually limited our liability for such claims adequately or at all; or · We would have sufficient resources to satisfy any liability resulting from any such claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We utilize data centers maintained by third parties, which could affect our ability to support our customers or financial performance. Many of the network services and computer servers utilized by us in our provision of services to customers are housed in data centers owned by third-party vendors. In the future, we may house additional servers and hardware items in facilities owned or operated by other vendors. A disruption in the ability of one of these data centers to provide service to us could cause a disruption in service to our customers. A data center could be disrupted in its operations through a number of contingencies, including unauthorized access, computer viruses, accidental or intentional actions, electrical disruptions, and other extreme conditions. Although we believe we have taken adequate steps to protect our operations through our contractual arrangements with our data centers, we cannot eliminate the risk of a disruption in service resulting from the accidental or intentional disruption in service by a date center. Any significant disruption could cause significant harm to us, including a significant loss of customers. In addition, a data center could raise its prices or otherwise change its terms and conditions in a way that adversely affects our ability to support our customers or financial performance. We will not pay cash dividends and investors may have to sell their shares in order to realize their investment. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for reinvestment in the development and marketing of our products and services. As a result, investors may have to sell their shares of common stock to realize their investment. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our stockholders to sell their shares at a premium to the then-current market price. Some of the provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium to the then-current market price. On December 10, 1999, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholders rights plan and declared a non-taxable dividend of one right to acquire our Series A Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, on each outstanding share of our common stock to stockholders of record on December 10, 1999 and each share of common stock issued thereafter until a pre-defined hostile takeover date. The stockholder rights plan was adopted as an anti-takeover measure, commonly referred to as a “poison pill”. The stockholder rights plan was designed to enable all stockholders not engaged in a hostile takeover attempt to receive fair and equal treatment in any proposed takeover of us and to guard against partial or two-tiered tender offers, open market accumulations, and other hostile tactics to gain control of us. The stockholders rights plan was not adopted in response to any effort to acquire control of us at the time of adoption. This stockholders rights plan may have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, discouraging, preventing, or rendering more costly an acquisition of us or a change in control of us. Certain of our principal stockholders, Charles W. Fritz, William E. Fritz and The Fritz Family Limited Partnership and their holdings were exempted from the triggering provisions of our “poison pill” plan, as a result of the fact that, as of the plan’s adoption, their holdings might have otherwise triggered the “poison pill”. 15 In addition, our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to designate and issue preferred stock, in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our Board of Directors, without further action by stockholders, and may include voting rights, including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion, redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions. We are authorized to issue a total of 25 million shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share. The issuance of any preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our common stock, and, therefore, could reduce the value of shares of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, discouraging, preventing, or rendering more costly an acquisition of us or a change in our control. Risks Relating To Our Industry The security of the internet poses risks to the success of our entire business. Concerns over the security of the internet and other electronic transactions, and the privacy of consumers and merchants, may inhibit the growth of the internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on our physical-world-to-internet business. We will only be able to execute our physical-world-to-internet business plan if internet usage and electronic commerce continue to grow. Our future revenues and any future profits are substantially dependent upon the widespread acceptance and use of the internet and camera devices on mobile telephones. If use of the internet and camera devices on mobile telephones does not continue to grow or grows more slowly than expected, or if the infrastructure for the internet and camera devices on mobile telephones does not effectively support the growth that may occur, or does not become a viable commercial marketplace, our physical-world-to-internet business, and therefore our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations, could be materially adversely affected. Rapid growth in the use of, and interest in, the internet and camera devices on mobile telephones is a recent phenomenon, and may not continue on a lasting basis. In addition, customers may not adopt, and continue to use mobile telephones as a medium of information retrieval or commerce. Demand and market acceptance for recently introduced services and products over the mobile internet are subject to a high level of uncertainty, and few services and products have generated profits. For us to be successful, consumers and businesses must be willing to accept and use novel and cost efficient ways of conducting business and exchanging information. 16 In addition, the public in general may not accept the use of the internet and camera devices on mobile telephones as a viable commercial or information marketplace for a number of reasons, including potentially inadequate development of the necessary network infrastructure or delayed development of enabling technologies and performance improvements. To the extent that mobile phone internet usage continues to experience significant growth in the number of users, their frequency of use, or in their bandwidth requirements, the infrastructure for the mobile internet may be unable to support the demands placed upon them. In addition, the mobile internet and mobile interactivity could lose its viability due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of mobile internet activity, or due to increased governmental regulation. Significant issues concerning the commercial and informational use of the mobile internet, and online network technologies, including security, reliability, cost, ease of use, and quality of service, remain unresolved and may inhibit the growth of internet business solutions that utilize these technologies. Changes in, or insufficient availability of, telecommunications services to support the internet, the web or other online services also could result in slower response times and adversely affect usage of the internet, the web and other online networks generally and our physical-world-to-internet product and networks in particular. We may not be able to adapt as the internet, physical-world-to-internet, and customer demands continue to evolve. We may not be able to adapt as the mobile internet and physical-world-to-internet markets and consumer demands continue to evolve. Our failure to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. The mobile internet and physical-world-to-internet markets are characterized by: · rapid technological change; · changes in user and customer requirements and preferences; · frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies; and · the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render proprietary technology and hardware and software infrastructure obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: · enhance and improve the responsiveness and functionality of our products and services; · license or develop technologies useful in our business on a timely basis; · enhance our existing services, and develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective or current customers; and · respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. We may not be able to compete effectively in markets where our competitors have more resources. While the market for physical-world-to-internet technology is relatively new, it is already highly competitive and characterized by an increasing number of entrants that have introduced or developed products and services similar to those offered by us. We believe that competition will intensify and increase in the near future. Our target market is rapidly evolving and is subject to continuous technological change. As a result, our competitors may be better positioned to address these developments or may react more favorably to these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. 17 Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, longer relationships with clients, and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, and public relations resources than we do. We may not successfully compete in any market in which we conduct or may conduct operations. We may not be able to penetrate markets or market our products as effectively as our better-funded more-established competitors. In the future, there could be government regulations and legal uncertainties which could harm our business. Any new legislation or regulation, the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the internet and other online services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the internet, the web and other online services, federal, state, and local governments may adopt laws and regulations, or amend existing laws and regulations, with respect to the internet or other online services covering issues such as taxation, user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, and characteristics and quality of products and services. The growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws to impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the internet, the Web or other online services, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our services and increase our cost of doing business, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, the relevant governmental authorities have not resolved the applicability to the internet, the Web and other online services of existing laws in various jurisdictions governing issues such as property ownership and personal privacy and it may take time to resolve these issues definitively. Certain of our proprietary technology allow for the storage of demographic data from our users. In 2000, the European Union adopted a directive addressing data privacy that may limit the collection and use of certain information regarding internet users. This directive may limit our ability to collect and use information collected by our technology in certain European countries. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and several state governments have investigated the use by certain internet companies of personal information. We could incur significant additional expenses if new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if our privacy practices are investigated. ITEM 1B. Unresolved staff comments None. ITEM 