ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Many factors could have an effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, industry, business and financial conditions. The factors described below represent our principal risks. Risks Related to our Industry Our industry is affected by global economic factors including the risk of a prolonged recession. Our financial results are substantially dependent upon overall economic conditions in the United States, in Europe and in Asia. A prolonged or a deepening recession in the United States, or globally, could substantially further decrease the demand for our products below already currently depressed levels and adversely affect our business. Many of our products are commodities, subject to cyclical fluctuations in supply and demand in both metal consuming industries and in construction. Metals industries have historically been vulnerable to significant declines in consumption and product pricing during prolonged periods of economic downturn such as at present. Likewise, the pace of construction activity has historically slowed significantly during economic downturns and is at historically low levels today. Our business is also dependent upon certain industries, such as commercial and government construction, energy, metals service centers, automotive, petrochemical and original equipment manufacturing and these are also cyclical in nature. Therefore, these industries may experience significant fluctuations in demand for our products based on economic conditions, energy prices, consumer demand and infrastructure funding decisions by governments. Many of these factors are beyond our control. As a result of the volatility in the industries we serve, we may have difficulty increasing or maintaining our level of sales or profitability. If the industries we serve continue to suffer a prolonged downturn, then our business may be further adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Our level of production and our sales and earnings are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of the cyclical nature of the steel industry and some of the industries we serve. The steel manufacturing business is cyclical in nature, and the price of the steel we make may fluctuate significantly due to many factors beyond our control. The timing and magnitude of these price fluctuations are difficult to predict. The sale of our manufactured steel products is directly affected by demand for our products in other cyclical industries, such as the automotive, oil and gas, gas transmission, residential and commercial/industrial construction, commercial equipment, rail transportation, appliance, agricultural and durable goods industries. Currently, the domestic automotive industry, which is a major consumer of new steel and a major generator of steel scrap, is still suffering from a prolonged and unprecedented downturn, continuing to threaten its financial viability, despite massive government assistance. Continued economic difficulties, stagnant economies, supply/demand imbalances and currency fluctuations in the United States or globally could further decrease the demand for our products or increase the amount of imports of steel into the United States, which would decrease our sales, margins and profitability. The scrap metals recycling industry has historically been, and is expected to remain, highly cyclical. A prolonged period of currently low scrap prices or a further fall in scrap metal prices, such as the one that began during the latter part of 2008, could have a material adverse effect on our metals recycling operations' results. When inbound scrap flows are weak it reduces our ability to obtain, process and sell recycled metals. Scrap metal prices are volatile and operating results within the metals recycling industry, in general, have historically been cyclical, and are expected to remain, highly cyclical in nature. Similarly, but not necessarily paralleling the price fluctuations in the steel business, the purchase prices for automobile bodies and various other grades of obsolete and industrial scrap, as well as the selling prices for processed and recycled scrap metals we utilize in our own manufacturing process or we resell to others through our metals recycling operations, are also currently and may continue to be highly volatile. As a metals recycler, we may attempt to respond to changing recycled metal selling prices by adjusting the scrap metal purchase prices we would pay, but our ability to do this may be limited by competitive or other factors and this, in turn, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. After rising during 2007 and through the summer of 2008, scrap metal prices in global markets fell sharply beginning in the late summer of 2008 as a result of collapsing demand and the resulting excess supply in the industry. The fall in prices during this period adversely affected the results of metals recycling companies, including our metals recycling company, OmniSource Corporation. Scrap metal prices are also sensitive to trends in other cyclical industries, such as the automotive and construction industries, and are also adversely affected by increases in steel imports into the United States, which may have an adverse impact on steel production in the United States. And this could have a corresponding adverse impact on the demand for recycled metal from our metals recycling operations. In the past, substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness have not always been offset by commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Although scrap prices have stabilized somewhat, the timing and extent of factors that will lead to a recovery to inbound flows of scrap cannot be predicted. Recovery of inbound volumes will likely depend on a broader recovery from the current global economic downturn, although the length and nature of business cycles affecting the scrap metal industry have historically been unpredictable. If the downturn in scrap metal realized margins were to be protracted, this would materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability from our metals recycling operations. 24 Table of Contents Imports of steel into the United States have in the past adversely affected, and may yet again adversely affect, U.S. steel prices, which could impact our sales, margins and profitability. Excessive imports of steel into the United States as a result of excess world supply, have in recent years exerted, and may again in the future exert, downward pressure on U.S. steel prices and may reduce or may negatively affect our ability to increase our sales, margins, and profitability. U.S. steel producers compete with many foreign producers, including those in China. Competition from foreign producers is typically strong and is periodically exacerbated by weakening of the economies of certain foreign steelmaking countries. Greater steel exports to the United States tend to occur at depressed prices when steel producing countries experience periods of economic difficulty, decreased demand for steel products or excess capacity. In addition, we believe the downward pressure on, and periodically depressed levels of, U.S. steel prices in some recent years have been further exacerbated by imports of steel involving dumping and subsidy abuses by foreign steel producers. Some foreign steel producers are owned, controlled or subsidized by foreign governments. As a result, decisions by these producers with respect to their production, sales and pricing are often influenced to a greater degree by political and economic policy considerations than by prevailing market conditions, realities of the marketplace or consideration of profit or loss. However, while some tariffs and quotas are currently in effect for certain steel products imported from a number of countries that have been found to have been unfairly pricing steel imports to the U.S., many of these are only short-lived. When such tariffs or duties expire or if others are further relaxed or repealed, or if relatively higher U.S. steel prices make it attractive for foreign steelmakers to export their steel products to the United States, despite the presence of duties or tariffs, the resurgence of substantial imports of foreign steel could create downward pressure on U.S. steel prices. China's current steelmaking overcapacity in relation to its steel consumption could have a material adverse effect on domestic and global steel pricing and could result in increased steel imports into the United States. A significant factor in the worldwide volatility of steel pricing in recent years was the explosive growth in Chinese steel consumption in relation to its domestic production, which, until the third quarter of 2008, had vastly outpaced that country's capacity to produce steel in sufficient quantity to serve its internal demand. The shortage of Chinese domestic steel supply, during this time period, resulted not only in heightened Chinese demand for imported steel and other raw materials, with a consequent upward spiral in worldwide steel pricing for finished steel products, but also led to a rapid and significant expansion of steel production capacity in China, as well as many of the commodities, supplies and services utilized in steelmaking. However, the subsequent drop in Chinese steel consumption that began in 2008 and continued in 2009, in addition to the continued utilization of a large amount of outdated, inefficient and government subsidized production capacity, has resulted in a situation in which China's steel producing capacity currently exceeds that country's demand for many kinds of steel products that we produce, making China a net exporter of millions of tons of steel in 2008 and 2009. Therefore, a combination of a slowdown in China's economic growth rate and steel consumption, coupled with its own expansion of steelmaking capacity, could result in a substantial further weakening of both domestic and global steel demand and steel pricing. Also, should Chinese steelmaking capacity remain the same or further increase, or should its demand either not increase or further weaken, China might not only remain a net exporter of steel but many Asian and European steel producers whose steel output previously fed China's steel import needs could find their way into the U.S. market, through increased steel imports, causing a further erosion of margins or negatively impacting our ability to increase our prices. 25 Table of Contents The worldwide economic downturn that began in 2008 and the difficult conditions in the global industrial, capital and credit markets that resulted, have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business and our industry, as well as the industries of many of our customers and suppliers upon whom we are dependent. Many of the markets in which our customers participate, such as the automotive, consumer products, original equipment, manufacturing, commercial, residential and government construction and metals service center industries, are also cyclical in nature and experience significant fluctuations in demand for our steel products based on economic conditions, consumer demand, raw material and energy costs, and decisions by our government to fund or not fund infrastructure projects such as highways, bridges, schools, energy plants, railroads and transportation facilities. Many of these factors are beyond our control. These markets are highly competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use markets, and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and pricing of our products. Recent declines in consumer and business confidence and spending, together with severe reductions in the availability and cost of credit, as well as volatility in the capital and credit markets, have adversely affected the business and economic environment in which we operate and the profitability of our business. We are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our suppliers and customers. Moreover, the current worldwide financial crisis has reduced the availability of credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of our customers' business operations. The inability of our customers or of their customers to access credit adversely affects our business by reducing our sales and by increasing our exposure to losses from uncollectible customer accounts. These conditions and continued disruption of the credit markets could result in financial instability of some of our suppliers and customers, the consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays or interruptions of the supply of raw materials we purchase, and bankruptcy of customers, suppliers or other creditors. Any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. Moreover, the current worldwide financial crisis has reduced the availability of credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of our customers' business operations. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Therefore, continued disruption of the credit markets has affected and could continue to adversely affect our customers' access to credit which supports the continuation and expansion of their businesses and could result in contract cancellations or suspensions, payment delays or defaults by our customers. Volatility and major fluctuations in scrap metal and pig iron prices and our potential inability to pass such higher costs on to our customers may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. Steel producers require large amounts of raw materials, including scrap metal and scrap substitute products such as pig iron, pelletized iron and other supplies such as graphite electrodes and ferroalloys. Our vertical integration into the metals recycling business through our OmniSource subsidiary and into the iron making business, through our Iron Dynamics and the recent start-up of our Mesabi Nugget operations will enable us to be our own supplier for some of our metallics requirements. However, we may still need to rely on other metallics and raw material suppliers, as well as upon general industry supply conditions. Purchase prices for auto bodies, scrap metal and scrap substitute products such as pig iron that we consume, and selling prices for scrap and recycled metals that we sell to third parties are volatile and beyond our control. While OmniSource attempts to respond to changing recycled metal selling prices through adjustments to its metal purchase prices, its ability to do so is limited by competitive and other market factors. Changing prices could potentially impact the volume of scrap metal available to the company and the volume and realized margins of processed metal sold by the company. 26 Table of Contents The availability and prices of raw materials may also be negatively affected by new laws and regulations, allocation by suppliers, interruptions in production, accidents or natural disasters, changes in exchange rates, worldwide price fluctuations, and the availability and cost of transportation. If prices for ferrous metallics and energy increase by a greater margin than corresponding price increases for the sale of our steel products, we may not be able to recoup such cost increases from increases in the selling prices of steel products, or our inability to pass on all or any substantial part of such cost increases through scrap or other surcharges or to provide for our customers' needs because of the potential unavailability of key raw materials or other inputs, may result in production curtailments or may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The cost and availability of electricity and natural gas are also subject to volatile market conditions. Steel producers like us consume large amounts of energy, inasmuch as mini-mills melt steel scrap in electric arc furnaces and use natural gas to heat steel billets for rolling into finished products. We rely on third parties for the supply of energy resources we consume in our steelmaking activities. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are all also subject to volatile market conditions, often affected by weather conditions as well as political and economic factors beyond our control. As large consumers of electricity and gas, we must have dependable delivery in order to operate. Accordingly, we are at risk in the event of an energy disruption. Prolonged black-outs or brown-outs or disruptions caused by natural disasters or by political considerations would substantially disrupt our production. Moreover, much of our finished steel products is typically delivered by truck. Rapid increases in the price of fuel attributable to increases in crude oil prices would have a negative impact on our costs or on the costs of many of our customers. In addition, changes in certain environmental regulations in the U.S., including those that may impose output limitations or higher costs associated with climate change or greenhouse gas emissions legislation, could substantially increase the cost of manufacturing and raw materials, such as energy, to U.S. steel producers. Fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our business. Fluctuations in the value of the dollar can be expected to affect our business. A strong U.S. dollar makes imported metal products less expensive, potentially resulting in more imports of steel products into the U.S. by our foreign competitors, while a weak U.S. dollar may have the opposite impact on imports. Compliance with and changes in environmental and remediation requirements could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or as may be interpreted in the future, as well as future laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We are subject to comprehensive local, state, federal and international statutory and regulatory environmental requirements relating to, among other things: •the acceptance, storage, treatment, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste; •the discharge of materials into air; •the management and treatment of wastewater and storm water; •the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination; •global climate change legislation or regulation; 27 Table of Contents •the remediation and reclamation of land used for iron mining; •natural resource damages; and •the protection of our employees' health and safety. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations, which affect both our steelmaking and our metals recycling and ironmaking operations, is a significant factor in our business. We are required to obtain and comply with environmental permits and licenses, and failure to obtain or renew or the violation of any permit or license, if not remedied, could result in substantial fines and penalties, suspension of operations or the closure of a subject facility. Similarly, delays in obtaining permits or unanticipated or costly conditions imposed on such permits, such as permits we are seeking in connection with our plan to engage in the mining of taconite ore close to our Mesabi Nugget facility in Minnesota, could delay a project or affect its profitability. Private parties might also bring claims against us for alleged property damage or personal injury resulting from the environmental impacts of our operations. Moreover, legal requirements change frequently, are subject to interpretation and have tended to become more stringent over time. Uncertainty regarding adequate pollution control levels, testing and sampling procedures, and new pollution control technology are factors that may increase our future compliance expenditures. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of future compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations, and we also cannot predict whether such costs can be passed on to customers through product price increases. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, legal requirements frequently change and are subject to interpretation. New laws, regulations and changing interpretations by regulatory authorities, together with uncertainty regarding adequate pollution control levels, testing and sampling procedures, new pollution control technology and cost benefit analysis based on market conditions are all factors that may increase our future expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. The cost of complying with existing laws or regulations as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or with future laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our manufacturing and recycling operations produce significant amounts of by-products, some of which are handled as industrial waste or hazardous waste. For example, our mills generate electric arc furnace (EAF) dust, which the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and other regulatory authorities classify as hazardous waste. EAF dust requires special handling, recycling and disposal. In addition, the primary feed materials for the shredders operated by our metals recycling operations are automobile hulks and obsolete household appliances. Approximately 20% of the weight of an automobile hulk consists of unrecyclable material known as shredder fluff. After the segregation of ferrous and saleable nonferrous metals, shredder fluff remains. We, along with others in the recycling industry, interpret federal regulations to require shredder fluff to meet certain criteria and pass a toxic leaching test to avoid classification as a hazardous waste. We also endeavor to remove hazardous contaminants from the feed material prior to shredding. As a result, we believe the shredder fluff we generate is not normally considered or properly classified as hazardous waste. However, if laws or regulations, the interpretation of the laws or regulations, or testing methods change with regard to EAF dust or shredder fluff, we may incur significant additional expenditures. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA" or "Superfund") enables USEPA and state agencies to recover from owners, operators, generators and transporters the cost of investigation and cleanup of sites which pose serious threats to the environment or public health. In connection with CERCLA and analogous state laws, we may be required to clean up contamination discovered at our sites including contamination that may have been caused by former owners or operators of the sites, conduct additional cleanup at sites where we have already participated in remediation efforts or to take remediation action with regard to sites formerly used in connection with our operations. 28 Table of Contents In addition, we may be required to pay for, or to pay a portion of, the costs of remediation at sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for disposal, notwithstanding that the original disposal activity may have complied with all regulatory requirements then in effect. Pursuant to CERCLA, a potentially responsible party can be held jointly and severally liable for all of the cleanup costs associated with a third-party disposal site. In practice, a liable party often splits the costs of cleanup with other potentially responsible parties. We have received notices from USEPA, state agencies and third parties that it has been identified as potentially responsible for the cost of investigating and cleaning up a number of third-party disposal sites. In most cases, many other parties are also named as potentially responsible parties. Based upon information currently available to us, we do not believe the potential cost in connection with the remediation of these sites will have a material effect on our business. Because CERCLA can be imposed retroactively on shipments that occurred many years ago, and because USEPA and state agencies are still discovering sites that pose a threat to public health or the environment, we can provide no assurance that we will not become liable in the future for significant costs associated with investigation and remediation of additional CERCLA clean up sites. CERCLA, including the Superfund Recycling Equity Act of 1999, limits the exposure of scrap metal recyclers for sales of certain recyclable material under certain circumstances. However, the recycling defense is subject to conducting of reasonable care evaluations of current and potential consuming facilities. Increased regulation associated with climate change and greenhouse gas emissions could impose significant additional costs on both our steelmaking and metals recycling operations. The United States government or various governmental agencies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change. International treaties or agreements may also result in increasing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, including the introduction of carbon emissions trading mechanisms. Any such regulation regarding climate change and greenhouse gas, or GHG emissions could impose significant costs on our steelmaking and metals recycling operations and on the operations of our customers and suppliers, including increased energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs in order to comply with current or future laws or regulations concerning and limitations imposed on our operations by virtue of climate change and GHG emissions laws and regulations. The potential costs of "allowances," "offsets" or "credits" that may be part of potential cap-and-trade programs or similar future regulatory measures are still uncertain. Any adopted future climate change and GHG regulations could negatively impact our ability (and that of our customers and suppliers) to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. From a medium and long-term perspective, we are likely to see an increase in costs relating to our assets that emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases as a result of these regulatory initiatives. These regulatory initiatives will be either voluntary or mandatory and may impact our operations directly or through our suppliers or customers. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict the effect on our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. 29 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Business Our senior secured credit agreement contains, and any future financing agreements may contain, restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility. Restrictions and covenants in our existing debt agreements, including our senior secured credit agreement and any future financing agreements, may impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Specifically, these agreements restrict our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness; •pay dividends or make distributions with respect to our capital stock; •repurchase or redeem capital stock; •make some investments; •create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions; •make some capital expenditures; •enter into transactions with affiliates or related persons; •issue or sell stock of certain subsidiaries; •sell or transfer assets; and •participate in some joint ventures, acquisitions or mergers. A breach of any of the restrictions or covenants could cause a default under our senior secured credit agreement, our senior notes, or our other debt. A significant portion of our indebtedness then may become immediately due and payable if the default is not remedied. Under our senior secured revolving credit facility we are required to maintain certain financial covenants tied to our debt and profitability. In addition, we are subject to a monthly borrowing base requirement limiting the maximum availability of our senior secured revolver. Our ability to meet such ratios can be affected by events beyond our control. If a default were to occur, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our receivables and inventories and all shares of capital stock or other equity interests of the company's subsidiaries and intercompany debt held by us. We are exposed to risks associated with the current financial crisis. Financial markets in the U.S. and abroad have experienced extreme disruption, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, resulting both in volatilities in short-term borrowing costs and in severely constrained credit availability and more stringent borrowing terms. Recessionary conditions in the global economy have not appreciably improved and could worsen even further. These conditions may continue to adversely affect our business in the future, particularly if current conditions persist or if there is further deterioration in the world financial markets and major economies. These current business and credit conditions also adversely affect the business of our customers. Difficulties in obtaining capital may lead to their inability to obtain affordable financing to fund their operations, resulting in lower demand for our products. Furthermore, liquidity issues could impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. Should these constraints on access to credit continue for a prolonged period, some of our customers may struggle and fail to meet their obligations to us, especially if they in turn experience defaults or slow payment on receivables due from 30 Table of Contents their customers. A prolonged recession could result in our incurring bad debt costs in excess of our expectations and prior experience. We may face significant price and other forms of competition from other steel producers and scrap processors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or prospects. The global markets in which steel companies and metals recyclers conduct business are highly competitive and are becoming even more so due to the current prolonged global economic downturn and to consolidations in recent years in the steel and the metal recycling industries. Increased competition could cause us to lose market share, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. We are subject to significant risks relating to changes in commodity prices and may not be able to effectively protect against these risks. We are exposed to commodity price risk during periods where we hold title to scrap metal products that we may hold in inventory for processing or resale. Prices of commodities, including recycled metals, can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control. In an increasing price environment for raw materials, competitive conditions may limit our ability to pass on price increases to our consumers. In a decreasing price environment for processed recycled metal, we may not have the ability to fully recoup the cost of raw materials that we procure, process and sell to our customers. In addition, new entrants into the market areas we serve could result in higher purchase prices for raw materials and lower margins from our recycled metal. We are unable to hedge positions in certain commodities, such as recycled ferrous metal, where no established futures market exists, or, where we may from time to time hedge our positions in certain nonferrous metal transactions, we could incur losses. Thus, our sales and inventory position will be vulnerable to adverse changes in commodity prices, which could materially adversely impact our operating and financial performance. We may be unable to pass on increases in the cost of ferrous materials and other raw materials to our customers, which would reduce our earnings. If from time to time we are unable to pass on periodic increases in ferrous resource and other raw material costs to our customers, we will be less profitable. We may not be able to adjust our product prices, especially in the short-term, to recover the costs of prolonged increases in raw material prices. Our principal raw material is scrap metal derived primarily from junked automobiles, industrial scrap, railroad cars, railroad track materials, agricultural machinery and demolition scrap from obsolete structures, containers and machines. The prices for scrap are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including demand by U.S. and international steel producers, freight costs and speculation. The prices for scrap have varied significantly, may vary significantly in the future and do not necessarily fluctuate in tandem with the price of steel. Moreover, some of our integrated steel producer competitors are not as dependent as we are on scrap as a part of their raw material melt mix, which, during periods of high scrap costs relative to the cost of blast furnace iron used by the integrated producers, give them a raw material cost advantage over mini-mills. In addition, our operations require substantial amounts of other raw materials, including various types of pig iron, alloys, refractories, graphite electrodes, oxygen, natural gas and electricity, the price and availability of which are also subject to market conditions. 31 Table of Contents The profitability of our metals recycling operations depends, in part, on the availability of an adequate source of supply. We procure our recyclable metal inventory from numerous sources. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and have no obligation to sell recyclable metal to us. In periods of low industry prices, suppliers may elect to hold recyclable metal to wait for higher prices or intentionally slow their metal collection activities. If a substantial number of suppliers cease selling recyclable metal to us, we will be unable to recycle metal at desired levels and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, a slowdown of industrial production in the United States, as has recently occurred, reduces the supply of industrial grades of metal to the metal recycling industry, resulting in our having less recyclable metal available to process and market. Competition from other materials may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. In many applications, steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum and plastics (particularly in the automobile industry), cement, composites, glass and wood. Increased use of or additional substitutes for steel products could adversely affect future market prices and demand for steel products. We may face risks associated with the implementation of our growth strategy. Our growth strategy subjects us to various risks. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand existing facilities, build additional plants, acquire other businesses and steel assets, enter into joint ventures, or form strategic alliances that we believe will complement our existing business. These transactions will likely involve some or all of the following risks: •the difficulty of competing for acquisitions and other growth opportunities with companies having materially greater financial resources than ours; •the inability to realize anticipated synergies or other benefits expected from an acquisition; •the difficulty of integrating the acquired operations and personnel into our existing businesses; •the potential disruption of ongoing businesses; •the diversion of financial resources to acquired businesses; •the diversion of management attention from other business concerns to acquired businesses; •the loss of key employees and customers of acquired businesses; •the potential exposure to unknown liabilities; •the inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; •the difficulty of managing the growth of a larger company; •the risk of entering markets in which we have little experience; •the risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial, or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprise; •the risk of becoming more highly leveraged; •the risk of contractual or operational liability to other venture participants or to third parties as a result of our participation; •the inability to work efficiently with joint venture or strategic alliance partners; and 32 Table of Contents •the difficulties of terminating joint ventures or strategic alliances. These transactions might be required for us to remain competitive, but we may not be able to complete any such transactions on favorable terms or obtain financing, if necessary, for such transactions on favorable terms. Future transactions may not improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated, and if they do not, our sales and earnings may be significantly reduced. Technology, operating and start-up risks, as well as commodity market risks associated with our Mesabi Nugget ironmaking project may prevent us from realizing its anticipated benefits and could result in a loss of all or a part of our investment. While we and certain of our current and former joint venture partners built and operated a successful small scale pilot plant on the Mesabi Iron Range in Minnesota for the production of a cost effective iron nugget using Kobe Steel's proprietary ITmK3® ironmaking process, there are technology, operational, market and start-up risks associated with the construction, recent commissioning and start-up of our world's first full scale commercial nugget plant utilizing this technology. Although, we believe this full scale plant should be capable of consistently producing high-quality iron nuggets for use as a scrap substitute feed stock in our steelmaking operations, and in sufficient quantities and at a cost that will compare favorably with the cost of steel scrap and other more conventional scrap substitute products, including pig iron, there can be no assurance that these expectations will be achieved. If we encounter cost overruns, systems or process difficulties during or after start-up or quality control or output restrictions, our capital costs could materially increase, the expected cost benefits from the development of this iron nugget product could be diminished or lost, and we could lose all or a substantial portion of our investment in the project. We could also encounter commodity market risk if, during a sustained period, the cost to manufacture the nuggets is greater than projected or if the relative market price of scrap and other scrap substitutes, for which this iron nugget product is intended as a lower cost substitute, is lower than projected, which could render our nuggets non-economical. Moreover, we are undertaking certain ancillary ventures related to the iron-making process, such as our nearby Mesabi Mining facility currently under construction for the mining and concentration of taconite ore for use in the production of nuggets, a business in which we have no experience and which is also subject to possible permitting and environmental risks and uncertainties. We are subject to litigation which could adversely affect our profitability. We are involved in various routine litigation matters, including administrative proceedings, regulatory proceedings, governmental investigations, environmental matters, and commercial and construction contract disputes. We were involved as the sole defendant in a February 1, 2008 lawsuit by Prime Eagle Group Limited, seeking damages in excess of $1.1 billion, but on February 23, 2009, pursuant to our Motion to Dismiss that action, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana granted our Motion to Dismiss, with prejudice and denied the plaintiffs the right to amend their complaint. The plaintiffs in that lawsuit appealed the dismissal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit and that appeal is still pending. We are also involved as one of nine defendants in a September 12, 2008 class action antitrust complaint by Standard Iron Works and others involving alleged antitrust violations of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. We and the other defendants filed a joint Motion to Dismiss these actions and our motion to dismiss was denied. Some discovery will shortly commence in these proceedings. We are contesting and will continue to vigorously contest. Due to the uncertain nature of litigation, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. These matters, however, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and profitability. 33 Table of Contents Litigation is very costly, and the costs associated with prosecuting and defending litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. Although we are unable to estimate the dollar amount of exposure to loss, if any, in connection with many litigation matters, we make accruals as warranted. We have also asserted insurance claims where appropriate. However, the amounts that we may accrue from time to time could vary significantly from the amounts we actually pay, due to inherent uncertainties and the inherent shortcomings of the estimation process, the uncertainties involved in litigation and other factors. Unexpected equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Interruptions in our production capabilities could adversely affect our production costs, products available for sales and earnings during the affected period. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of steelmaking equipment, such as our furnaces, continuous casters and rolling equipment, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers. This equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. We have experienced and may in the future experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures. Some of our operations present significant risk of injury or death. The industrial activities conducted at our facilities present significant risk of serious injury or death to our employees, customers or other visitors to our operations, notwithstanding our safety precautions, including our material compliance with federal, state and local employee health and safety regulations. While we have in place policies and procedures to minimize such risks, we may nevertheless be unable to avoid material liabilities for an injury or death. Even though we maintain workers' compensation insurance to address the risk of incurring material liabilities for injury or death, there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage will be adequate or will continue to be available on the terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could result in material liabilities for an injury or death. Governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew some of our licenses and permits. We must receive licenses, permits and approvals from state and local governments to conduct certain of our operations or to develop or acquire new facilities. Governmental agencies often resist the establishment of certain types of facilities in their communities, including scrap metal collection and processing facilities. There can be no assurance that future approvals, licenses and permits will be granted or that we will be able to maintain and renew the approvals, licenses and permits we currently hold, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our common stock price may fluctuate substantially. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, significant volatility. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These risks include those described or referred to in this "Risk Factors" section and in the other documents incorporated herein by reference, as well as, among other things: •our actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating and financial performance and prospects; •perceptions regarding the level of our debt; •investor perceptions relating to our products, our industry and the markets in which we operate; •market conditions in the end markets into which we or our customers sell our products; 34 Table of Contents •changes in industry forecasts, earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; and •broad financial, domestic, international, economic and other market conditions. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. As a result of these factors, among others, the value of your investment may decline because a decrease in the market price of our common stock would likely adversely impact the trading price of the notes. Payment of dividends will depend on our future financial condition and performance. While our board of directors has been authorizing the payment of regular quarterly cash dividends on shares of our common stock, the timing and amount of future dividends will depend on the board's assessment of our operations, financial condition, projected cash needs, contractual restrictions or restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to declare dividends or declare them at the same or similar rates. In addition, our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture relating to our notes restrict the amount of cash dividends we can pay. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 35 Table of Contents 