Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider each of the following factors in evaluating our business and prospects. The risk and uncertainties described below are those that we currently deem to be material, and do not represent all of the risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may in the future become material and impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes. The market for wireless broadband data access products is highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively. The market for wireless broadband data access products is highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase and intensify. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly or more effectively than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They also may devote greater resources than we do to the development, promotion and sale of their respective products. Many of our current or potential competitors have more extensive customer bases and broader customer and other industry relationships that they can leverage to establish dealings with many of our current and potential customers. Some of these companies also have more established and larger customer support organizations than we do. In addition, these companies may adopt more aggressive pricing policies or offer more attractive terms to customers than they currently do or than we are able to, may bundle their competitive products with broader product offerings and may introduce new products and enhancements. Current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products. As a result, it is possible that new competitors or new relationships among existing competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share to the detriment of our business. Our wireless communications products currently compete with a variety of devices, including other wireless modems, wireless handsets, wireless handheld computing devices and other wireless devices. Our current and potential competitors include: • wireless data modem providers, such as Huawei, Option International, Sierra Wireless, Kyocera, Pantech-Curitel and Sony-Ericsson; • wireless computing device manufacturers, such as palmOne and Research in Motion; and • wireless handset and infrastructure manufacturers, such as Motorola, Nokia, Siemens and Sony-Ericsson. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the features and performance of their current products and to introduce new products, services and technologies. Successful new product introductions or enhancements 8 Table of Contents by our competitors could reduce our sales and the market acceptance of our products, cause intense price competition and make our products obsolete. To be competitive, we must continue to invest significant resources in, among other things, research and development, sales and marketing, and customer support. We cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to make these investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary for our products to remain competitive. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer or smaller customer orders, reduced margins and loss of our market share. Our failure to compete successfully could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to predict and comply with evolving wireless industry standards, including 3G standards, could hurt our ability to introduce and sell new products. In our industry, it is critical to our success that we accurately anticipate evolving wireless technology standards and that our products comply with such standards. We are currently focused on engineering and manufacturing products that comply with several different 3G wireless standards. Any failure of our products to comply with any one of these or future applicable standards could delay their introduction and require costly and time-consuming engineering changes. Additionally, if wireless operators or subscribers fail to adopt, in sufficient numbers, the standards to which we engineer our products, then sales of our new products designed to those standards could be materially harmed. If we fail to develop and introduce new products successfully, we may lose key customers or product orders and may not be able to compete effectively. The development of new wireless data products requires technological innovation and can be difficult, lengthy and costly. In addition, wireless operators require that wireless data systems deployed on their networks comply with their own technical and product performance standards, which may differ from the standards our products are required to meet for other operators. This increases the complexity of the product development process. In addition, as we introduce new versions of our existing products or new products altogether, our current customers may not require or desire the technological innovations of these products and may not purchase them. Further, as part of our strategy, we enter into contracts with customers pursuant to which we develop products for later sale to the customer. Our ability to generate future revenue and operating income under any such contracts depends upon, among other factors, our ability to develop products that are suitable for manufacturing and in a cost effective manner and that meet defined product design and technical specifications. Our ability to maximize the benefits of these contracts depends in part on the following: • We have priced the products to be sold under these contracts based on our estimated development, production and post-production warranty costs. If these or other related development and production costs are actually higher than our estimated costs, our gross margins and operating margins on the corresponding contracts will be less than anticipated. • If we are unable to commit the necessary engineering, program management and other resources or are otherwise unable to successfully develop products as required by the terms of these contracts, our customers may cancel the related contracts, we may not be entitled to recover any costs that we incurred for research and development, sales and marketing, production and otherwise, and we may be subject to additional costs such as contractual penalties. • If we fail to deliver in a timely manner a product that is suitable for manufacture or if a customer determines that a prototype product we delivered does not meet the agreed-upon specifications, we may be unable to commercially launch the product, we may have to reduce the price we charge for such product if it launches, or we may be required to pay damages to the customer. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks or meet required delivery specifications or deadlines in connection with one or more of our key contracts, we may lose key customers or orders and our business could be harmed. 9 Table of Contents If we fail to develop and maintain strategic relationships, we may not be able to penetrate new markets. A key element of our business strategy is to penetrate new markets by developing new products through strategic relationships with industry leaders in wireless communications. We are currently investing, and plan to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these relationships. We believe that our success in penetrating new markets for our products will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain these relationships and to cultivate additional or alternative relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to develop additional strategic relationships, that existing relationships will survive and successfully achieve their purposes or that the companies with whom we have strategic relationships will not form competing arrangements with others or determine to compete unilaterally with us. We have historically depended upon a small number of our customers for a substantial portion of our revenue and upon only a few of our key customers to make contractual minimum volume purchases. A significant portion of our revenue comes from a small number of customers. Our top ten customers for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 accounted for approximately 80.3% and 67.7% of our revenue, respectively. Similarly, our revenue could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain the level of business of any of our significant customers or if we are unable to diversify our customer base. We expect that a small number of customers will combine to account for a substantial amount of our revenue for the foreseeable future. In addition, a majority of our current customers purchase our products pursuant to contracts that do not require them to purchase any specific minimum quantity of units. Such customers have no contractual obligation to continue to purchase our products and if they do not continue to make purchases consistent with their historical purchase levels, our revenue and our share price may decline. The sale of our products depends on the demand for broadband wireless access to enterprise networks and the Internet. The markets for broadband wireless access solutions are relatively new and rapidly evolving, both technologically and competitively, and the successful sale of related products and services depends in part on the strength of the demand for wireless access to enterprise networks and the Internet. In the past, market demand for both wireless products and wireless access services for the transmission of data developed at a slower rate than we had anticipated and as a result our product sales did not generate sufficient revenue to cover our operating costs. The failure of these markets to continue to grow at the rate that we currently anticipate may adversely impact our rate of growth and the growth in the demand for our products, and as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. The marketability of our products may suffer if wireless telecommunications operators do not deliver acceptable wireless services. The success of our business depends, in part, on the capacity, affordability, reliability and prevalence of wireless data networks provided by wireless telecommunications operators. Currently, various wireless telecommunications operators, either individually or jointly with us, sell our products in connection with the sale of their wireless data services to their customers. Growth in demand for wireless data access may be limited if, for example, wireless telecommunications operators cease or materially curtail operations, fail to offer services which customers consider valuable, fail to maintain sufficient capacity to meet demand for wireless data access, delay the expansion of their wireless networks and services, fail to offer and maintain reliable wireless network services or fail to market their services effectively. In addition, our future growth depends on the successful deployment of next generation wireless data networks provided by third parties, including those networks for which we are currently developing products. If these next generation networks are not deployed or widely accepted, or if deployment is delayed, there will be no market for the products we are developing to operate on these networks. If any of these events occur, or if for any other reason the demand for wireless data access fails to grow, sales of our products will decline and our business could be harmed. 10 Table of Contents If we do not properly manage the growth of our business, we may experience significant strains on our management and operations and disruptions in our business. Various risks arise when companies and industries grow quickly. If our business grows too quickly, our ability to meet customer demand in a timely and efficient manner could be challenged. We may also experience production delays as we seek to meet increased demand for our products. Our failure to properly manage our growth could negatively impact our ability to execute on our operating plan and, accordingly, could have an adverse impact on our business, our cash flow and results of operations and our reputation with our current or potential customers. We currently rely on third parties to manufacture our products, which exposes us to a number of risks and uncertainties outside our control. During 2005, we outsourced our manufacturing to LG Innotek, Celestica and SerComm. During 2006, we anticipate that LG Innotek will be responsible for the majority of our manufacturing. If a third-party manufacturer were to experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, product shipments to our customers could be delayed or our customers could consequently elect to cancel the underlying order, which would negatively impact our revenues and our competitive position and reputation. Further, if we are unable to manage successfully our relationship with a manufacturer, the quality and availability of our products may be harmed. Historically, none of our third-party manufacturers has been obligated to supply us with a specific quantity of products, except as may be provided in particular purchase orders which we submit to them from time to time. Therefore, such a third-party manufacturer could at any time and at its sole election decline to accept new purchase orders from us or otherwise reduce its respective business with us. If such a manufacturer stopped manufacturing our products for any reason or reduced manufacturing capacity, we may be unable to replace the lost manufacturing capacity on a timely basis, which would adversely impact our operations. In addition, if a third-party manufacturer were to negatively change the payment and other terms under which it agrees to manufacture for us and we are unable to locate a suitable alternative manufacturer, our manufacturing costs could significantly increase. Because we outsource the manufacture of all of our products, the cost, quality and availability of third-party manufacturing operations are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers exposes us to a number of risks which are outside our control, including: • unexpected increases in manufacturing costs; • interruptions in shipments if a third-party manufacturer is unable to complete production in a timely manner; • inability to control quality of finished products; • inability to control delivery schedules; • inability to control production levels and to meet minimum volume commitments to our customers; • inability to control manufacturing yield; • inability to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity; and • inability to secure adequate volumes of components or at suitable prices. Although we promote ethical business practices and our operations personnel periodically visit and monitor the operations of our manufacturers, we do not control the manufacturers or their labor practices. If our current manufacturers, or any other third-party manufacturer which we use in the future, violate United States or foreign laws or regulations, we may be subjected to extra duties, significant monetary penalties, adverse publicity, the seizure and forfeiture of products that we are attempting to import or the loss of our import privileges. The effects of these factors could render the conduct of our business in a particular country undesirable or impractical and have a negative impact on our operating results. 11 Table of Contents We might forecast customer demand incorrectly and order the manufacture of excess or insufficient quantities of particular products. We generally place purchase orders with our manufacturer at least three months prior to the scheduled delivery of the finished goods to our customers. In some instances, due to the length of component lead times, we might need to place manufacturing orders on the basis of a good-faith but non-binding customer forecast of the quantity and timing of its expected purchases from us. Accordingly, if we inaccurately anticipate customer demand for our products, we might be unable to obtain adequate quantities of components to meet our customers’ delivery requirements or, alternatively, we might accumulate excess inventory. Our operating results and financial condition have been in the past and may in the future be materially adversely affected by our ability to manage our inventory levels and respond to short-term or unexpected shifts in customer demand. We depend on sole source suppliers for some of our components, and our product availability and sales would be harmed if any of these suppliers is not able to meet our demand and alternative components are not available. Our products contain a variety of components, many of which are procured from single suppliers. These components include both tooled parts and industry-standard parts, many of which are also used in cellular telephone handsets. From time to time, certain components used in our products have been in short supply worldwide. If there is a shortage of any such components, and we cannot obtain a suitable substitute, we may not be able to timely deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy demand. Moreover, if we locate a substitute and its price is prohibitive, our ability to maintain cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed. Others could claim that we infringe on their intellectual property rights, which may result in substantial costs, diversion of resources and management attention, and harm to our reputation. It is possible that other parties may claim that we have violated their intellectual property rights. An infringement claim, regardless of the merits or success of the claim, could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources and management attention and harm to our reputation. Infringement claims can be difficult and costly to verify and assess. A successful infringement claim against us could cause us to be liable for damages and litigation costs. In addition, a successful infringement claim could have other negative consequences, including prohibiting us from further use of the intellectual property or causing us to license the intellectual property, incurring licensing fees, some of which could be retroactive. Upon the occurrence of a successful infringement claim, we may also have to develop a non-infringing alternative, which if available could be costly, and delay or prevent sales of our products. We may not be able to license necessary third-party technology or it may be expensive to do so. From time to time, we may be required to license technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. We have licensed software and other intellectual property for use in our products from third-parties, such as QUALCOMM. The license from QUALCOMM does not have a specified term and may be terminated by us or by QUALCOMM for cause or upon the occurrence of other specified events. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our third-party licenses or that additional third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The inability to maintain or obtain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost which could seriously harm our competitive position, revenue and growth prospects. We are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, which could negatively affect our international sales activities and our ability to obtain products from our foreign manufacturers. In addition to our manufacturing activities in Asia, a significant portion of our sales activity takes place in Europe. In addition, a significant portion of our research and development staff is located in Canada. Our 12 Table of Contents international sales accounted for approximately 58.4% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 76.0% for the year ended December 31, 2004. Although our experience in marketing, selling, distributing and manufacturing our products and services internationally is limited, we expect to further expand our international sales and marketing activities in the future. Consequently, we are subject to certain risks associated with doing business abroad, including: • difficulty in managing widespread sales, research and development operations and post sales logistics and support; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets, and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; • less effective protection of intellectual property and general exposure to different legal standards; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • increased expenses associated with customizing products for different countries; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements resulting in unanticipated costs and delays; • longer collection cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • longer sales cycles; • international terrorism; • loss or damage to products in transit; and • international dock strikes or other transportation delays. Any disruption in our ability to obtain products from our foreign manufacturers or our ability to conduct international operations and sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent we enter into contracts that are denominated in foreign currencies and do not adequately hedge that exposure, fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and foreign currencies may affect our operating results. A significant amount of our revenues are generated from sales agreements denominated in foreign currencies, particularly the Euro, and we expect to enter into additional agreements as we expand our international customer base. As a result, we transact some of our business in foreign currencies, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and we currently expect this exposure may increase in the future. We attempt to manage this risk, in part, by minimizing the effects of volatility on cash flows by identifying forecasted transactions exposed to these risks and using foreign exchange forward contracts. There can be no assurance that we will not incur foreign currency losses or that foreign exchange forward contracts we may enter into to reduce the risk of such losses will be successful. Our products may contain errors or defects, which could decrease their market acceptance. Our products are technologically complex and must meet stringent user requirements. We must develop our software and hardware products quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing and technologically advanced wireless communications market. Products as sophisticated as ours may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new models or versions are released. Our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs, unanticipated warranty claims, and the payment of monetary damages to our customers. 13 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors or management. If this occurs, the market price of our stock would likely decline. The following factors may cause fluctuations in our operating results: • Decreases in revenue or increases in operating expenses. We budget our operating expenses based on anticipated sales, and a significant portion of our sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative costs are fixed, at least in the short term. If revenue decreases or does not grow as planned and we are unable to reduce our operating costs quickly and sufficiently, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. • Product mix. The product mix of our sales affects profit margins in any given quarter. As our business evolves and the revenue from the product mix of our sales varies from quarter to quarter, our operating results will likely fluctuate. • New product introductions. As we introduce new products, the timing of these introductions will affect our quarterly operating results. We may have difficulty predicting the timing of new product introductions and the market acceptance of these new products. If products and services are introduced earlier or later than anticipated, or if market acceptance is unexpectedly high or low, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate unexpectedly. • Lengthy sales cycle. The length of time between the date of initial contact with a potential customer and the execution of and product delivery under a contract may take several months, and is subject to delays over which we have little or no control. The sale of our products is subject to delays from our customers’ budgeting, approval, testing and competitive evaluation processes that typically accompany significant information technology purchasing decisions. As a result, our ability to anticipate the timing and volume of sales to specific customers is limited, and the delay or failure to complete one or more large transactions could cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. • Foreign currency. We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. As a significant amount of our revenues are generated in the Euro currency, we use foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize exposure to the risk of loss on changes in foreign currency exchange rates upon the eventual net cash inflows from foreign currency denominated sales with our customers. Since there is a high correlation between the hedging instruments and the underlying exposures, the gains and losses on these underlying exposures are generally offset by reciprocal changes in the value of the hedging instruments. We use derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes. Fluctuations in the Euro currency may have a material impact on our future operating results and gross margins. Due to these and other factors, our results of operations may fluctuate substantially in the future and quarter-to-quarter comparisons may not be reliable indicators of future operating or share price performance. We incurred significant operating losses and negative cash flows between the date of our inception and the beginning of 2004 and if our revenue and gross margins decline or we are unable to increase our revenue and gross margins relative to our operating expenses, we may incur significant net losses and negative cash flow from operations. We incurred significant operating losses and net losses in each annual period between the date of our inception until the beginning of 2004. In 2004, we reached profitability for the first time since our inception and recorded net income applicable to common stockholders of $13.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. We incurred net losses applicable to common stockholders of $16.7 million for the fiscal year ending 2003 and $53.5 million for the fiscal year ending 2002. We had positive cash flows from operations of $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, while we had negative cash flows from operations of $400,000 for the fiscal year 14 Table of Contents ending December 31, 2003 and $28.7 million for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $222.3 million. If we are unable to generate revenue and gross margins to sufficiently offset our increasing expenses, we may not maintain profitability and may incur operating losses, net losses and negative cash flow from operations. We may not be able to maintain and expand our business if we are not able to hire, retain and manage additional qualified personnel. Our success in the future depends in part on the continued contribution of our executive, technical, engineering, sales, marketing, operations and administrative personnel. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel in the wireless communications industry, including software and hardware engineers, is highly competitive. Although we may enter into employment agreements with members of our senior management in the future, currently none of our senior management or other key personnel is bound by an employment agreement. If we are not able to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or if we experience delays in hiring required personnel, particularly qualified engineers, we will not be able to maintain and expand our business. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we intend to review, on an ongoing basis, acquisition opportunities that we believe would be advantageous to the development of our business. While we have no current agreements or plans with respect to any acquisitions, we may acquire businesses, assets, or technologies in the future. If we make any acquisitions, we could take any or all of the following actions, any one of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations: • issue equity securities that would dilute existing stockholders’ percentage ownership; • use a substantial portion of our available cash; • incur substantial debt, which may not be available to us on favorable terms and may adversely affect our liquidity; • assume contingent liabilities; and • take substantial charges in connection with acquired assets. Acquisitions also entail numerous other risks, including: difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, products and personnel; unanticipated costs; diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and potential loss of key employees from either our preexisting business or the acquired organization. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business and operating results. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, new SEC regulations and the Nasdaq National Market rules, continue to create uncertainty for many companies, including ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of 15 Table of Contents corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. FASB’s adoption of Statement 123R will cause our net income and earnings per share to be significantly reduced and any changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may cause adverse fluctuations in our reported results of operations or affect how we conduct our business. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, adopted Statement 123R, “Share Based Payment,” which will require us, beginning in the first quarter of 2006, to measure compensation costs for all stock based compensation (including stock options and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan, as currently constructed) at fair value and record a compensation charge equal to that value. This compensation charge for the cost of stock option grants will have an adverse effect on our future net income and earnings per share compared to our historical operating results. Also, a change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. Other new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. This change to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We may not be able to develop products that comply with applicable government regulations. Our products must comply with government regulations. For example, in the United States, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, regulates many aspects of communications devices, including radiation of electromagnetic energy, biological safety and rules for devices to be connected to telephone networks. In addition to the federal government, some states have adopted regulations applicable to our products. Radio frequency devices, which include our modems, must be approved under the above regulations by obtaining equipment authorization from the FCC prior to being offered for sale. Regulatory requirements in Canada, Europe, Asia and other jurisdictions must also be met. Additionally, we cannot anticipate the effect that changes in domestic or foreign government regulations may have on our ability to develop and sell products in the future. Failure to comply with existing or evolving government regulations or to obtain timely regulatory approvals or certificates for our products could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 