RISK FACTORS The Limited Operating History of Our E-Commerce Related Products and Services Makes It Difficult to Evaluate Our Business and Our Prospects Our eECM solution has had a limited operating history. Although we have been in the business of financing and selling information technology equipment since 1990, we will encounter some of the challenges, risks, difficulties and uncertainties frequently encountered by early-stage companies using new business models in evolving markets. Some of these challenges relate to our ability to: o increase the total number of users of our Enterprise Cost Management services; o adapt to meet changes in our markets and competitive developments; o hire sufficient personnel to accommodate the expected growth in our customer base; and o continue to update our technology to enhance the features and functionality of our suite of products. We cannot be certain that our business strategy will be successful or that we will successfully address these and other challenges, risks and uncertainties. The Electronic Commerce Business-To-Business Solutions Market Is Highly Competitive and We Cannot Assure That We Will Be Able to Compete Effectively The market for Internet-based, business-to-business electronic commerce solutions is extremely competitive. We expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings and new competitors enter the market. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, or that competitive pressures faced by us will not harm our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the market for electronic procurement solutions is relatively new and evolving. Our strategy of providing an Internet-based electronic commerce solution may not be successful, or we may not execute it effectively. Accordingly, our solution may not be widely adopted by businesses. Because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the electronic commerce market, competition from other established and emerging companies may develop in the future. Increased competition is likely to result in reduced margins, longer sales cycles and loss of market share, any of which could materially harm our business, operating results or financial condition. The business-to-business electronic commerce solutions offered by our competitors now or in the future may be perceived by buyers and suppliers as superior to ours. Many of our competitors have, and potential competitors may have, more experience developing Internet-based software and end-to-end purchasing solutions, larger technical staffs, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, competitors may be able to develop products and services that are superior to our products and services, that achieve greater customer acceptance, or that have significantly improved functionality as compared to our existing and future products and services. Costs to Protect Our Patents May Affect Our Earnings The legal and associated costs to protect our patents may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may deem it necessary to protect the Company's intellectual property rights and significant expenses could be incurred with no certainty of the results of these potential actions. Costs relative to lawsuits are usually expensed in the periods as they occur and there is no certainty of recouping any of the amounts expended, regardless of the outcome of any action. 18 If Our Products Contain Defects, Our Business Could Suffer Products as complex as those used to provide our electronic commerce solutions often contain known and undetected errors or performance problems. Many serious defects are frequently found during the period immediately following introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. Although we attempt to resolve all errors that we believe would be considered serious by our customers, our products are not error-free. Undetected errors or performance problems may not be discovered in the future and errors considered by us to be minor may be considered serious by our customers. This could result in lost revenues, delays in customer acceptance or unforeseen liability that would be detrimental to our reputation and to our business. We May Not Be Able to Hire and Retain Sufficient Sales, Marketing and Technical Personnel That We Need to Succeed To increase market awareness and sales of our offerings, we may need to expand our sales operations and marketing efforts in the future. Our products and services require a sophisticated sales effort and significant technical support. Competition for qualified sales, marketing and technical personnel fluctuates depending on market conditions and we might not be able to hire or retain sufficient numbers of such personnel to grow our business. If We Are Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property, Our Business Will Suffer The success of our business strategy depends, in part, upon proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of copyright, trade secret and service mark laws and contractual provisions with our subcontractors to protect our proprietary technology. It may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Some of our agreements with our customers and technology licensors contain residual clauses regarding confidentiality and the rights of third parties to obtain the source code for our products. These provisions may limit our ability to protect our intellectual property rights in the future that could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting our intellectual property rights will be adequate. If any of these events happen, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We Face Risks of Claims From Third Parties for Intellectual Property Infringement That Could Harm Our Business Although we believe that our intellectual property rights are sufficient to allow us to market our existing products without incurring liability to third parties, we cannot assure you that our products and services do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. 19 In addition, because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, we may not be aware of applications that have been filed which relate to our products or processes. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our customers against infringement claims. In the event of a claim of infringement, we and our customers may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We cannot assure you that such licenses could be obtained from third parties at a reasonable cost or at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such required license could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, in certain instances, third parties licensing software to us have refused to indemnify us for possible infringement claims. If We Publish Inaccurate Catalog Content Data, Our Business Could Suffer Any defects or errors in catalog content data could harm our customers or deter businesses from participating in our offering, damage our business reputation, harm our ability to attract new customers and potentially expose us to legal liability. In addition, from time to time some participants in Enterprise Cost Management services could submit to us inaccurate pricing or other catalog data. Even though such inaccuracies are not caused by our work and are not within our control, such inaccuracies could deter current and potential customers from using our products and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We Depend on Having Creditworthy Customers Our leasing and technology sales business requires sufficient amounts of debt and equity capital to fund our equipment purchases. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, or if we experience a material increase in our credit losses, we may find it difficult to continue to obtain the capital we require and our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. In addition to the impact on our ability to attract capital, a material increase in our delinquency and default experience would itself have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We May Not Be Able to Realize Our Entire Investment in the Equipment We Lease We lease various types of equipment to customers through two distinct types of transactions: capital leases and operating leases. A capital lease passes substantially all of the risks and rewards of owning the related equipment to the customer. Lease payments during the initial term of a direct financing lease cover approximately 90% of the underlying equipment's cost at the inception of the lease. The duration of an operating lease, however, is shorter relative to the equipment's useful life. We bear a slightly greater risk in operating leases in that we may not be able to remarket the equipment on terms that will allow us to fully recover our investment. At the inception of each lease, we estimate the fair market value of the item as a residual value for the leased equipment based on the terms of the lease contract. A decrease in the market value of such equipment at a rate greater than the rate we expected, whether due to rapid technological obsolescence or other factors, would adversely affect the residual values of such equipment. Any such loss, which is considered by management to be permanent in nature, would be recognized in the period of impairment in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 13, "Accounting for Leases." Consequently, there can be no assurance that our estimated residual values for equipment will be realized. Our lease portfolio has recently expanded to new types of equipment under lease of which we may not experience the same residual realization economics. 20 We May Not Reserve Adequately for Our Credit Losses We maintain a consolidated reserve for credit losses on finance receivables. Our consolidated reserve for credit losses reflects management's judgment of the loss potential. Our management bases its judgment on the nature and financial characteristics of our obligors, general economic conditions and our bad debt experience. It also considers delinquency rates and the value of the collateral underlying the finance receivables. We cannot be certain that our consolidated reserve for credit losses will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If our reserves for credit losses are not adequate, our business, operating results and financial condition may suffer. Our Earnings May Fluctuate Our earnings are susceptible to fluctuations for a number of reasons, including the seasonal and cyclical nature of our customers' procurement patterns. Our earnings will continue to be affected by fluctuations in our historical business, such as lower sales of equipment, increased direct marketing by manufacturers rather than through distributors, reductions in realized residual values, fluctuations in interest rates, and lower overall sales. In the event our revenues or earnings are less than the level expected by the market in general, such shortfall could have an immediate and significant adverse impact on our common stock's market price. We Are Dependent Upon Our Current Management Team Our operations and future success depend on the efforts, abilities and relationships of our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Phillip G. Norton; our founder and Executive Vice President, Bruce M. Bowen, who also serves as a director; Steven J. Mencarini, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Kleyton L. Parkhurst, Senior Vice President and Treasurer. The loss of any of these key management officers or personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Each of these officers has an employment agreement with us. We also maintain key-man life insurance on Mr. Norton. 21 Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures and our Internal Controls over Financial Reporting may not be Effective to Detect all Errors or to Detect and Deter Wrongdoing, Fraud or Improper Activities in all Instances Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannnot ensure that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and fraud. In designing our control systems, management recognizes that any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the necessity of considering the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Because of inherent limitations in any control system, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of wrongdoing, if any, that may affect our operations have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistakes and that controls may be circumvented by individual acts by some person, by collusion of two or more people or by management's override of the control. The design of any control system also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of a potential future event, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in cost-effective control systems, misstatements due to error or wrongdoing may occur and not be detected. Over time, it is also possible that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions that could not be, or were not, anticipated at inception or at subsequent review of the control system. Treating Stock Options and Employee Stock Purchase Plan Participation As a Compensation Expense Could Significantly Impair Our Ability to Maintain Profitability The Financial Accounting Standards Board has begun requiring some companies to record compensation expense regarding stock options and participation in employee stock purchase plans. We grant stock options to our employees, officers and directors and we administered an employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) which ended December 31, 2002. Information on our stock option plan and ESPP, including the shares reserved for issuance under those plans, the terms of options granted, and the shares subject to outstanding stock options, is included in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The current Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance is that, effective for our fiscal year starting April 1, 2006, we will have to begin expensing stock options. When we are required to record an expense for our stock-based compensation plans, we could incur a significant compensation expense, and any such expense could significantly impair our ability to return to and maintain profitability on a GAAP basis. That impact on our ability to maintain profitability on a GAAP basis could have a material adverse effect on the market price of the Company's common stock. 22 Our Assessment As to the Adequacy of Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting as Required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 May Cause Our Operating Expenses to Increase. If We Are Unable to Certify the Adequacy of Our Internal Controls and Our Independent Auditors Are Unable to Attest Thereto, Investors Could Lose Confidence in the Reliability of Our Financial Statements, Which Could Result in a Decrease in the Value of the Company's Common Stock. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company's internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. We expect that these rules will first apply to ePlus with respect to our fiscal year ending March 31, 2006. To comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the SEC's new rules and regulations, we are evaluating our internal control systems and taking remedial actions to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we have incurred expenses, and expect to incur additional expenses, and diversion of management's time and attention, which may increase our operating expenses and impair our ability to sustain profitability on a pro forma basis and achieve profitability on a GAAP basis. While we are endeavoring to implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 in a timely manner, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our schedule to complete all assessment and testing in a timely manner and, if we do not, that we and our independent auditors will have the resources available to complete necessary assessment and reporting on internal controls on a timely basis. Further, we cannot be certain that our testing of internal controls and resulting remediation actions will yield adequate internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, there could be an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of the Company's common stock to decline. 23 