1A Risk Factors – We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and may be liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.” Government Regulation Existing or future legislation could limit the growth or use of the internet, mobile telecommunications and/or mobile advertising, which would curtail our revenue growth. Statutes and regulations directly applicable to internet communications, mobile commerce and mobile advertising are becoming more prevalent and we anticipate there will be activity to determine how new and existing laws governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation apply to mobile marketing and advertising. Some of our proprietary technology allows the storage of non-specific demographic data from users. On December 8, 2011, NeoMedia issued an updated Privacy Policy which can be accessed from our website at http://www.neom.com/privacy. We also published a new End User License Agreement which we believe is current with all best practices and guidelines in the United States and is located at http://www.neom.com/EULA. Personnel As of December 31, 2012, we had 14 personnel, including 6 individuals in our office in Würsulen, Germany. We believe that our personnel relations are good. None of our personnel are represented by a labor union or bound by a collective bargaining agreement. Management Changes On July 19, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Board”) appointed Robert W. Thomson to serve as interim Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary of the Company. Mr. Thomson had previously served as the Company’s Corporate Controller. Mr. Thomson served as the Company’s interim Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary until January 2, 2012, at which time he resumed his duties as Corporate Controller. Mr. Thompson left the Company on April 17, 2012 On January 3, 2012, the Board appointed James A. Doran as Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary. On February 8, 2012, Mr. Doran resigned from his position as Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary of the Company. On January 31, 2012, the Company finalized the removal process (that commenced on January 11, 2012) of Dr. Christian Steinborn from the position of Managing Director of NeoMedia Europe. Ms. Laura Marriott, our Chief Executive Officer, was appointed as the Managing Director of NeoMedia Europe. On February 10, 2012, Colonel (Ret.) Barry S. Baer was appointed by the Board as Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary of the Company. On August 27, 2012, Jeff Huitt was appointed as Chief Financial Officer by the Board and Colonel Baer continued as Corporate Secretary. On November 4, 2012, Colonel Baer was appointed as Treasurer of the Company. Page 6 Subsequent Event: On March 26, 2013, the Board appointed Colonel Baer as Chief Financial Officer with Mr. Huitt continuing to serve as Controller, in accordance with their existing agreements. Board of Director Changes On March 2, 2011, Sarah Fay was appointed to the Board. James J. Keil, a Director of NeoMedia since August 1996, retired from the Board after 15 years of service, effective June 30, 2011. On October 1, 2011, Peter Mannetti was appointed to the Board. Research and Development We have incurred $0.95 million and $1.6 million in research and development expenses during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors and all other information contained in this Report before you make any investment decisions with respect to our securities. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred losses since inception and could incur losses in the future, and we have a accumulated deficit and a working capital deficit. We have incurred substantial operating losses since inception, and may continue to incur losses. We must develop new client and customer relationships and substantially increase our revenue derived from improved products and IP licensing. We have expended, and to the extent we have available financing, we intend to continue to expend, resources to develop and improve our products and to market our products and services. A number of factors could increase our operating expenses, such as: adapting infrastructure and administrative resources to accommodate additional customers and future growth; developing products, distribution, marketing, and management for the broadest possible market; broadening customer technical support capabilities; developing additional indirect distribution partners; and, incurring legal fees and settlements associated with litigation and contingencies. To the extent that operating expenses are not offset by increases in revenues, our operating losses will increase. There can be no assurance that our continuing efforts to execute our business plan will be successful but we believe that the organization is now of sufficient size to support our operating plan. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“US GAAP”), which contemplate our continuation as a going concern. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we incurred losses from operations of $5.5 million and $5.3 million, respectively. Net cash used by operations during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was $1.5 million and $4.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2012, we have an accumulated deficit of $264.6 million. We also have a working capital deficit of $74.7 million, of which $70.2 million or 93% is related to our financing instruments, including $68.0 million related to the fair value of warrants and those debentures that are recorded as hybrid financial instruments, and $2.2 million related to the amortized cost carrying value of certain of our debentures and the fair value of the associated derivative liabilities. We currently do not have sufficient cash, or commitments for financing to sustain our operations for the next twelve months. If our revenues are not to plan and our operating expenses cannot be reduced to sustain our operations, we may require additional financing in order to execute our operating plan; however, we believe that such additional financing will not be necessary. If additional financing is required, we cannot predict whether this additional financing will be in the form of equity, debt, or another form and we may not be able to obtain the necessary additional capital on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. In the event that these financing sources do not materialize, or that we are unsuccessful in increasing our revenues and profits, we may be unable to implement our current plans for expansion, repay our debt obligations or respond to competitive pressures, any of which circumstances would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The items discussed above raise doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. Page 7 Our management and Board may be unable to execute their plans to grow our revenues and achieve profitability and positive cash flows, which could cause us to discontinue our operations. We could fail to attract or retain key personnel which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our management and Board are unable to attract and retain management and staff to maintain and execute our plans, then we may fail to grow our revenues, manage costs and achieve profitability and positive cash flows, which may cause us to discontinue our operations. All of our assets are pledged to secure certain debt obligations, which if we fail to repay and/or otherwise satisfy, could result in foreclosure upon substantially all of our assets. The repayment of our convertible debentures, issued to YA Global, is secured by substantially all of our assets. In the event we are unable to repay and/or otherwise satisfy such secured convertible debentures, which mature on August 1, 2014, we could lose substantially all of our assets, which may adversely affect our business. Our future profitability depends on the timely introduction of new products and the acceptance of these new products in the marketplace. Rapid technological change and market development are typical for the industries we serve. Our future revenue and profitability will depend in large part on timely development and introduction of new products that address evolving market requirements. If we fail to effectively launch new and innovative products, we may lose market share to our competitors. Any inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully grow our product portfolio could materially and adversely affect our business. Existing shareholders will experience significant dilution when certain investors, such as YA Global, convert their preferred stock to common stock, convert outstanding convertible debentures to common stock, or when the investors exercise their warrants for common stock. The issuance of shares of common stock pursuant to the conversion of our Series C and D convertible preferred stock, and the conversion of convertible debentures to common stock, or the exercise of warrants pursuant to our transactions with YA Global will have a dilutive impact on our shareholders. As a result, our net earnings per share could decrease in future periods, and the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the lower our stock price, the more shares of common stock we will have to issue for the conversion of preferred stock or the convertible debentures. If our stock price is lower, then existing shareholders would experience greater dilution which may result in a decrease in such shareholders’ stock value. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Certain requirements regarding penny stocks may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker-dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. The potential market for “penny stocks” is further reduced by whether the Company can trade using the electronic trading system operated by the Depository Trust Company (“DTC”). Currently, the company is experiencing a DTC “chill” which limits electronic trading. The DTC placed a “chill” on deposits of the Company’s common stock, which may negatively impact an investor’s ability to trade in our common shares. In November 2011, the DTC placed a “chill” on deposits of our common stock. The “chill” does not affect our normal business operations. However, shareholders with internet brokerage accounts with firms such as Scottrade, TD Ameritrade or E*Trade may not be able to trade in our common shares through these internet brokers as usual. Because some shareholders may trade through these internet brokers which clear and settle through the DTC, we believe the “chill” may contribute to limitations on the ability for investors to purchase our shares. However, if an investor has an account with a full service broker, it will still typically clear and settle our stock manually, and the investor can typically buy and sell our stock as freely as usual without any DTC imposed restrictions. Due to the accounting treatment of the convertible preferred stock, warrants and convertible debenture instruments issued by us, fluctuations in our stock price could have a material impact on our results of operations. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we reported net losses of $19.4 million and $849,000 respectively. The net loss in 2012 resulted primarily from non-cash losses arising from the extinguishment of debt resulting from modifications to the terms of certain convertible debentures. We also recognized gains and losses to reflect the change in fair value from the revaluation of warrants and convertible debentures, which are recorded at fair value, and the embedded conversion features in our Series C and D preferred stock, which features are also carried at fair value. We adjust the carrying value of these derivative instruments to market at each balance sheet date. As a result, we could experience significant fluctuations in our earnings in future periods from such gains or losses, based on movements in our share price. As a result, our income from operations may be completely overshadowed by the impact of fluctuations in the fair value of our financial instruments, resulting solely from changes in the price of our common stock. Therefore, our financial statements are highly complex and may be difficult for all but the most financially sophisticated readers to comprehend. Page 8 A majority of our assets are intangible assets, which will have little or no value if our operations are not profitable. At December 31, 2012, a majority of our total assets were intangible assets, consisting primarily of rights related to our patents, other intellectual property, and goodwill arising from the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of tangible assets acquired in our purchase of NeoMedia Europe. If our results of operations do not return to profitability in the future, these assets will have little or no value, which could lead to us recognizing impairment losses for such assets. This could materially adversely affect the value of our stock and the ability of our shareholders to recoup their investments in our stock. We review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances may warrant. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, resulting in a materially adverse impact on our results of operations. We may not be able to compete effectively in markets where our competitors have more resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our market is highly competitive and characterized by an increasing number of entrants that have introduced or developed products and services similar to those offered by us. We believe that competition will continue to intensify and increase in the near future. Our target market is rapidly evolving and is subject to continuous technological change. As a result, our competitors may be better positioned to address these developments or may react more favorably to these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and may be liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success is dependent upon our proprietary technology, including patents and other intellectual property, and on the ability to protect proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. In addition, we must conduct our operations without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We also intend to rely upon unpatented trade secrets and the know-how and expertise of our employees, as well as our patents. To protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property, we rely primarily on a combination of the protections provided by applicable patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws as well as on confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements. Although we believe that we have taken appropriate steps to protect our unpatented proprietary rights, including requiring that our employees and third parties who are granted access to our proprietary technology enter into confidentiality agreements, we can provide no assurance that these measures will be sufficient to protect our rights against third parties. Others may independently develop or otherwise acquire patented or unpatented technologies or products similar or superior to ours. We are exposed to product liability claims and an uninsured claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as on the value of our stock. Many of our projects are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses. Any failure in a client’s information system could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. We could, therefore, be subject to claims in connection with the products and services that we sell. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that we have contractually limited our liability for such claims adequately or at all, or that we would have sufficient resources to satisfy any liability resulting from any such claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business. We will not pay cash dividends and investors may have to sell their shares in order to realize their investment, which may not be easy for investors to do. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for reinvestment in the development and marketing of our products and services. As a result, investors may have to sell their shares of common stock to realize their investment. Investors may encounter difficulty selling their shares of common stock. Page 9 Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our shareholders to sell their shares at a premium to the then-current market price. Some of the provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium to the then-current market price. On December 10, 1999, our Board adopted a shareholders’ rights plan and declared a non-taxable dividend of the right to acquire one-one hundredth of a share of our Series A Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, on each outstanding share of our common stock to shareholders of record on December 20, 1999 and each share of common stock issued thereafter until a pre-defined hostile takeover date. The shareholder rights plan was adopted as an anti-takeover measure, commonly referred to as a “poison pill”. The shareholder rights plan was designed to enable all shareholders not engaged in a hostile takeover attempt to receive fair and equal treatment in any proposed takeover of us and to guard against partial or two-tiered tender offers, open market accumulations, and other hostile tactics to gain control of us. The shareholders’ rights plan was not adopted in response to any effort to acquire control of us at the time of adoption, however it may have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, discouraging, preventing, or rendering more costly an acquisition of us or a change in control of us. Certain shareholders, who were our founders, Charles W. Fritz, William E. Fritz and The Fritz Family Limited Partnership and their holdings, were exempted from the triggering provisions of our “poison pill” plan, as a result of the fact that, as of the plan’s adoption, their holdings might have otherwise triggered the “poison pill”. In addition, our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our Board to designate and issue preferred stock, in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our Board, without further action by shareholders, and may include voting rights, including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion, redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions. Preferred stock may have a negative impact on other stockholders or the pursuit of certain corporate actions. We are authorized to issue a total of 25 million shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. The issuance of any preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our common stock, and, therefore, could reduce the value of shares of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party. The ability of our Board to issue preferred stock could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, discouraging, preventing, or rendering more costly an acquisition of us or a change in our control. In the future, there could be government regulations and legal uncertainties that could harm our business. Any new legislation or regulation, the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the internet and other online services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. The growth and development of the market for mobile commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws to impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the internet, mobile telecommunications or other mobile services, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our services and increase our cost of doing business, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 