Item 1A. Risk FactorsCautionary Statement for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 We operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. We caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. The risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this Report on Form 10-K and should also be considered by our investors.Risks associated with the global economyThe current global economic and political environment may negatively impact industry fundamentals, and the related decrease in demand for drilling rigs could cause a downturn in the oil and natural gas industry. Such a condition could have a material adverse impact on our business. An extended deterioration in the global economic environment may impact fundamentals that are critical to our industry, such as the global demand for, and consumption of, oil and natural gas. Reduced demand for oil and natural gas generally results in lower oil and natural gas prices and prolonged weakness in the economy could impact the economics of planned drilling projects, resulting in curtailment, reduction, delay or postponement for an indeterminate period of time. Furthermore, an extended deterioration in the political environment in countries where we operate or that produce significant supply of the world’s demand for oil may also impact fundamentals that are critical to our industry, such as the global supply of oil and natural gas. Constraints in the global supply of oil caused by political turmoil in any of the large oil-producing countries of the world could significantly increase oil and natural gas prices while the removal of such constraints could significantly decrease oil and natural gas prices for an indeterminate period of time. Such volatility in oil and natural gas prices could negatively impact the world economy and our industry. Any long-term reduction in oil and natural gas prices will reduce oil and natural gas drilling and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect the demand for sales, rentals or services of our top drive units and for our Tubular Services. These reductions could adversely affect the future net realizability of assets, including inventory, fixed assets, goodwill, and other intangible assets.6Table of ContentsWe are exposed to risks associated with the financial markets. While we intend to finance our operations with existing cash, cash flow from operations, and borrowing under our existing credit facility, we may require additional financing to support our growth. If any of the significant lenders, insurance companies, or other financial institutions are unable to perform their obligations under our credit agreements, insurance policies, or other contracts, and we are unable to find suitable replacements on acceptable terms as a result of recent credit disruptions or otherwise, our results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be adversely affected.Many of our customers access the credit markets to finance their oil and natural gas drilling and production activity. The possible inability of these parties to obtain financing on acceptable terms, due to the recent credit disruptions or otherwise, could impair their ability to perform under their agreements with us and lead to various negative effects on us, including business disruption, decreased revenue, and increases in bad debt write-offs. A sustained decline in the financial stability of these parties could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.The occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks could materially impact our business.The occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the United States and other developed countries. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause a decrease in spending by oil and natural gas companies for exploration and development. In addition, these risks could trigger increased volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas which could also adversely affect spending by oil and natural gas companies. A decrease in spending for any reason could adversely affect the markets for our products and thereby adversely affect our revenue and margins and limit our future growth prospects. Moreover, these risks could cause increased instability in the financial and insurance markets and adversely affect our ability to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate or are required to obtain by our contracts with third parties.We face risks related to natural disasters and pandemic diseases, which could materially and adversely disrupt our operations and affect travel required for our worldwide operations.A portion of our business involves the movement of people, parts, and supplies to or from foreign locations. Any restrictions on travel or shipments to and from foreign locations, due to the occurrence of natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, or hurricanes; or an epidemic or outbreak of diseases, in these locations, could significantly disrupt our operations and decrease our ability to provide services to our customers. In addition, our local workforce could be affected by such an occurrence or outbreak which could also significantly disrupt our operations and decrease our ability to provide services to our customers.Risks associated with the oil and natural gas industryWe could be subject to substantial liability claims, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Certain equipment and processes are used by us and other companies in the oil and natural gas industry during the delivery of oilfield services in hostile environments, such as exploration, development, and production applications. An accident or a failure of a product or process could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment, or the environment, and suspension of operations. Our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. Moreover, in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Substantial claims made under our policies could cause our premiums to increase. Any future damages caused by our products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.We face risks due to the cyclical nature of the energy industry and the corresponding credit risk of our customers.Changing political, economic, or military circumstances throughout the energy-producing regions of the world can impact the market price of oil and natural gas for extended periods of time. As most of our accounts receivable are with customers involved in the oil and natural gas industry, any significant change in such circumstances could result in financial exposure in relation to affected customers. 7Table of ContentsFluctuations in the demand for and prices of oil and natural gas would negatively impact our business.Fluctuations in the demand for, and prices of, oil and natural gas impact the level of drilling activity by our customers and potential customers. The prices are primarily determined by supply, demand, government regulations relating to oil and natural gas production and processing, and international political events, none of which can be accurately predicted. In times of declining activity, not only is there less opportunity for us to sell our products and services but there is increased competitive pressure that tends to reduce our prices and, therefore, our margins.Possible legislation and regulations related to global warming and climate change could have an adverse effect on our operations and the demand for oil and natural gas.Foreign, federal, state, and local authorities and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) is taking steps to require monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions and to regulate GHGs as pollutants under the Clean Air Act (“CAA”). The EPA finalized the Mandatory Greenhouse Reporting Rules in 2009. The EPA expanded those rules to require the reporting of GHG emissions from other specified large GHG emission sources in the United States on an annual basis, as well as certain onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities on an annual basis, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, climate change legislation is pending in the United States Congress. Foreign jurisdictions are also considering the need to address climate changes by legislation or regulation. Several regional GHG initiatives have formed which may require reporting or development of cap and trade programs. These developments may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect future results of operations. Additionally, federal and/or state legislation to reduce the effects of GHG may potentially have a direct or indirect adverse effect on our operations, including the possible imposition on us and/or our customers of additional operational costs due to carbon emissions generated by oil and natural gas related activities. Finally, our business could be negatively affected by climate change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns, which could result in damages to or loss of our physical assets, impacts on our ability to conduct operations and/or disruption of our customers’ operations. Our onshore oil and natural gas operations could be adversely impacted by changes in, and compliance with, restrictions or regulations on onshore drilling in the United States and in other areas around the world which may adversely affect our business and operating results.New federal and state legislation regulating hydraulic fracturing may result in increased costs to drill, complete, and operate wells, as well as delays in obtaining permits to drill wells all of which could negatively impact our clients and thereby our business and operating results. If legislation is passed to ban hydraulic fracturing, the number of wells drilled in the future could drop dramatically, and the economic performance of those drilled would be negatively affected. Local authorities have also instituted restrictions to hydraulic fracturing operations which could result in negative impacts to our business.Our revenue and earnings are subject to fluctuations period over period and are difficult to forecast. Our revenue and earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending upon: •the level of drilling activity worldwide, as well as the particular geographic focus of the activity;•the variability of customer orders or a reduction in customer orders, which are particularly unpredictable in international markets and which may leave us with excess or obsolete inventories;•the levels of inventories of our products held by end-users and distributors;•the mix of our products sold or leased and the margins on those products;•new products offered and sold or leased by us or our competitors;•weather conditions or other natural disasters that can affect our operations or our customers’ operations;•changes in oil and natural gas prices and currency exchange rates, which in some cases affect the costs and prices for our products;8Table of Contents•the level of capital equipment project orders, which may vary with the level of new rig construction and refurbishment activity in the industry;•changes in drilling and exploration plans, which can be particularly volatile in international markets;•the ability of our vendors to timely supply necessary component parts used for the manufacturing of our products; and•the ability to manufacture and timely deliver customer orders, particularly in the top drive segment due to the increasing size and complexity of our models.In addition, our fixed costs cause our margins to decrease when demand is low and service capacity is underutilized.Any significant consolidation or loss of end-user customers could have an impact on our business.Exploration and production company operators and drilling contractors have undergone substantial consolidation in recent years. Additional consolidation is probable. In addition, many oil and natural gas properties could be transferred over time to different potential customers.Consolidation of drilling contractors results in fewer end-users for our products and could result in the combined contractor standardizing its equipment preferences in favor of a competitor’s products.Merger activity among both major and independent oil and natural gas companies also affects exploration, development, and production activity, as these consolidated companies attempt to increase efficiency and reduce costs. Generally, only the more promising exploration and development projects from each merged entity are likely to be pursued, which may result in overall lower post-merger exploration and development budgets. Moreover, some end-users prefer not to use relatively new products or premium products in their drilling operations.We operate in an intensively competitive industry, and if we fail to compete effectively, our business will suffer.Our competitors may attempt to increase their market share by reducing prices or our customers may adopt competing technologies. The drilling industry is driven primarily by cost minimization. Our strategy is aimed at reducing drilling costs through the application of new technologies. Our competitors, many of whom have a more diverse product line and access to greater amounts of capital than we do, have the ability to compete against the cost savings generated by our technology by reducing prices and by introducing competing technologies. Our competitors may also have the ability to offer bundles of products and services to customers that we do not offer. We have limited resources to sustain prolonged price competition and maintain the level of investment required to continue the commercialization and development of our new technologies.To compete in our industry, we must continue to develop new technologies and products.The markets for our products and services are characterized by continual technological developments and we have identified our products as providing technological advantages over other competitive products. As a result, substantial improvements in the scope and quality of product function and performance can occur over a short period of time. If we are not able to develop commercially competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in technology, our business may be adversely affected. Our future ability to develop new products depends on our ability to:•design and commercially produce products that meet the needs of our customers;•successfully market new products; and•obtain and maintain patent protection.We may encounter resource constraints, technical barriers, or other difficulties that would delay introduction of new products and services in the future. Our competitors may introduce new products or obtain patents before we do and achieve a competitive advantage. Additionally, the time and expense invested in product development may not result in commercial applications.For example, from time to time, we have incurred significant losses in the development of new technologies which were not successful for various commercial or technical reasons. If we are unable to successfully implement technological or research and engineering type activities, our growth prospects may be reduced and our future revenue may be materially and adversely affected. 9Table of ContentsMoreover, we may experience operating losses after new products are introduced and commercialized because of high start-up costs, unexpected manufacturing costs or problems, or lack of demand. Risks associated with our businessWe have been party to patent infringement claims and we may not be able to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights.In two separate actions, we were sued by VARCO I/P, Inc. and Weatherford International, who have alleged that our CDS tool and other equipment and processes violate certain of their patents. See Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 14 included in this Report on Form 10-K. We settled our lawsuit with Weatherford International, and we believe the suit with VARCO I/P, Inc. is without merit. We intend to continue to defend ourselves vigorously. In the event that we are not successful in defending ourselves in this matter, it may have a material adverse effect on our Tubular Services segment and, therefore, on our business. In addition, in the future we may be subject to other infringement claims and if any of our products were found to be infringing, our consolidated financial results may be adversely affected.Some of our products and the processes used to produce them have been granted U.S. and international patent protection, or have patent applications pending. Nevertheless, patents may not be granted from our applications and, if patents are issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficient to protect our technology. Recent changes in U.S. patent law may have the effect of making certain of our patents more likely to be the subject of claims for invalidation.Our competitors may be able to independently develop technology that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents. This is especially true internationally where the protection of intellectual property rights may not be as effective. In addition, obtaining and maintaining intellectual property protection internationally may be significantly more expensive than doing so domestically. We may have to spend substantial time and money defending our patents. After our patents expire, our competitors will not be legally constrained from marketing products substantially similar to ours.We may be negatively impacted by cutbacks by the Mexican Government on the annual budget of Petróleos Mexicanos (PEMEX). In Mexico, the majority of our business is performed for PEMEX. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, PEMEX accounted for approximately 9% of our consolidated revenues and a significant amount of operating cash flows. PEMEX is a decentralized public entity of the Mexican Government and its annual budget is approved by the Mexican Congress. The Mexican Government may cut spending in the future and such cuts could adversely affect PEMEX's annual budget and thereby its ability to engage us or compensate us for our products and services. Further, at the expiration of existing contracts, we may be required to participate in open auctions to renew such contracts.We are subject to legal proceedings and may, in the future, be subject to additional legal proceedings.In the normal course of our business, we are subject to legal proceedings brought by or against us and our subsidiaries. We are currently involved in legal proceedings described in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 14 included in this Report on Form 10-K. From time to time, we may become subject to additional legal proceedings which may include contract, tort, intellectual property, tax, regulatory compliance and other claims. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former, current, or prospective employees from time to time, alleging violations of employment-related laws. Lawsuits or claims could result in decisions against us which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.Our products and services are used in hazardous conditions, and we are subject to risks relating to potential liability claims.Most of our products are used in hazardous drilling and production applications where an accident or a failure of a product can have catastrophic consequences. For example, the unexpected failure of a top drive to rotate a drill string during drilling operations could result in the loss of control over a well, leading to blowout and the discharge of pollutants into the environment. Damages arising from an occurrence at a location where our products are used have in the past and may in the future result in the assertion of potentially large claims against us.While we attempt to limit our exposure to such risks through contracts with our customers, these measures may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of hole, damaged or lost drilling equipment, damage or loss from inclement weather or natural disasters, and losses resulting from business interruption. Our insurance coverage generally provides that we assume a portion of the risk in the form of a self-insured retention, 10Table of Contentsand may not be adequate in risk coverage or policy limits to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. Moreover, we may not be able in the future to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any significant claims made under our policies will likely cause our premiums to increase. Any future damages caused by our products or services that are not covered by insurance, are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations.Environmental compliance and remediation costs and the costs of environmental liabilities could exceed our estimates.The energy industry is affected by changes in public policy, federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations. The adoption of laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and natural gas for economic, environmental and other policy reasons may adversely affect our operations due to our customers having limited drilling and other opportunities in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry. The operations of our customers, as well as our properties, are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges, waste management and workplace safety.Our credit facility contains restrictions that may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs and could accelerate debt payments.Our credit facility contains covenants which limit the amount of borrowings available by the maintenance of certain financial ratios. Decreases in our financial performance could prohibit us from borrowing amounts under our credit facility, force us to make repayments of outstanding debt in order to remain in compliance with these restrictive covenants, or accelerate our debt payments and other financing obligations and those of our subsidiaries. Additionally, our credit agreements are collateralized by equity interests in our subsidiaries. A breach of the covenants under these agreements could permit the lenders to exercise their rights to foreclose on these collateral interests. If this were to occur, we might not be able to repay such debt and other financing obligations. These restrictions may negatively impact our ability to finance future operations, implement our business strategy or fund our capital needs. Compliance with these financial ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, including the risks and uncertainties described in the other risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report.For further discussion of our credit facility, see Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 9 included in this Report on Form 10-K.We have a revolving credit facility that is not contracted at current market rates.In April 2012, we amended our credit agreement to provide a revolving line of credit of $125 million including up to $20 million of swing line loans. The new credit facility has a term of five years and all outstanding borrowings on the new agreement are due and payable on April 27, 2017.At this time it is difficult to forecast the future state of the bank loan market. As a result of the uncertain state of various financial institutions and the credit markets generally, we may be unable to maintain our current borrowing capacity in the event of bank or banks failure to fund any commitments under the current credit facility, and we may not be able to refinance our bank facility in the same amount and on the same terms as we currently hold, which could negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations. We provide warranties on our products and if our products fail to operate properly our business will suffer.We provide warranties as to the proper operation and conformance to specifications of the equipment we manufacture. Our products are often deployed in harsh environments including subsea applications. The failure of these products to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources and services, replacement of parts and equipment or monetary reimbursement to a customer. We have experienced quality problems with raw material vendors, which required us to recall and replace certain equipment and components. We have also received warranty claims and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. Such claims may exceed the reserve we have set aside for them. To the extent that we incur substantial warranty claims in any period because of quality issues with our products, our reputation, ability to obtain future business and earnings could be materially and adversely affected.Our foreign operations and investments involve special risks.We sell products and provide services in parts of the world where the political and legal systems are very different from those in the U.S. and Canada. In places like Russia, Latin America, the Middle East and Asia Pacific, we may have difficulty or extra 11Table of Contentsexpense in navigating the local bureaucracies and legal systems. We may face challenges in enforcing contracts in local courts or be at a disadvantage when we have a dispute with a customer that is an agency of the state. We may be at a disadvantage to competitors that are not subject to the same international trade and business practice restrictions that U.S. and Canadian laws impose on us.While diversification is desirable, it can expose us to risks related to cultural, political, and economic factors of foreign jurisdictions which are beyond our control. As a general rule, we have elected not to carry political risk insurance against these risks. Such risks include the following:•loss of revenue, property, and equipment as a result of hazards such as wars or insurrection;•the effects of currency fluctuations and exchange controls, such as devaluation of foreign currencies and other economic problems;•changes or interpretations in laws, regulations, and policies of foreign governments, including those associated with changes in the governing parties, nationalization, and expropriation;•protracted delays in securing government consents, permits, licenses, or other regulatory approvals necessary to conduct our operations; and•protracted delays in the collection of accounts receivable due to economic, political, and civil instabilities.We are subject to foreign governmental regulations in some jurisdictions in which we operate that favor or require awarding contracts to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of or purchase supplies from a certain jurisdiction. Such regulations may adversely affect our ability to compete in that jurisdiction. Our operations in some jurisdictions may be significantly affected by union activity and general labor unrest. In Argentina and Mexico, particularly, where we have significant operations, labor organizations have substantial support and have considerable political influence. In Argentina, the demands of labor organizations have increased in recent years and seem likely to continue as a result of the general labor unrest and dissatisfaction resulting from the disparity between the cost of living and salaries in Argentina as a result of the devaluation of the Argentine Peso. There can be no assurance that our operations in Argentina or Mexico will not face labor disruptions in the future or that any such disruptions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Further, unionization efforts have been made from time to time in other jurisdictions in which we operate with varying degrees of success. Any such unionization could increase our costs or limit the flexibility in that market.Our profitability is driven to a large extent by our ability to deliver the products we manufacture in a timely manner.Disruptions to our production schedule may adversely impact our ability to meet delivery commitments. If we fail to deliver products according to contract terms, we may suffer financial penalties and a diminution of our commercial reputation and future product orders.We rely on the availability of raw materials, component parts and finished products to produce our products.We buy raw materials, components and precision machining or sub-assembly services from many different vendors located in Canada, the U.S., Europe, South East Asia and the Middle East. The price and lead times for some products have fluctuated along with the general changes of steel prices around the world. We also source a substantial amount of electrical components, including permanent magnet motors and drives as well as a substantial amount of hydraulic components, including hydraulic motors, from suppliers located in the U.S. and abroad. The inability of suppliers to meet performance, quality specifications, and delivery schedules could cause delays in manufacturing and make it difficult or impossible for us to meet outstanding orders or accept new orders for the manufacture of the affected equipment. In addition, the lack of an efficient supply chain could cause us to hold higher levels of inventory.The design of some of our equipment is based on components provided by specific sole source manufacturers.Some of our products have been designed around components which are only available from one source of supply. In some cases, a manufacturer has developed or modified the design of a component at our request, and consequently we are the only purchaser of such items. If the manufacturer of such an item should go out of business or cease or refuse to manufacture the component in question, or raise the price of such components unduly, we may have to identify alternative components and redesign portions of our equipment. This could cause delays in manufacturing and make it difficult or impossible for us to meet outstanding orders or accept new orders for the manufacture of the affected equipment.12Table of ContentsOur business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and key employees, and the loss of such employees could result in the failure to implement our business plans.As a technology based company, we depend upon skilled engineering and other professionals in order to engage in product innovation and ensure the effective implementation of our innovative technology. We compete for these professionals, not only with other companies in the same industry, but with oil and natural gas service companies generally and other industries. In periods of high energy and industrial manufacturing activity, demand for the skills and expertise of these professionals increases, which can make the hiring and retention of these individuals more difficult and expensive. Failure to recruit and retain such individuals may result in our inability to maintain a competitive advantage over other companies and loss of customer satisfaction. The loss or incapacity of certain key employees for any reason, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Julio M. Quintana, could have a negative impact on our ability to implement our business plan due to the specialized knowledge these individuals possess. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our personnel. Our business relies on the skills and availability of trained and experienced trades and technicians to provide efficient and necessary services to us and our customers. Hiring and retaining such individuals are critical to the success of our business plan. Retention of staff and the prevention of injury to staff are essential in order to provide a high level of service.We may be unable to identify or complete acquisitions.Acquisitions have been and may continue to be an element of our business strategy. We can give no assurance that we will be able to secure, close, or integrate successfully the assets and operations of acquired businesses with our own business. Any inability on our part to integrate and manage the growth of acquired businesses may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We can give no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire additional businesses in the future on terms favorable to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.