ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company involves certain risks. Readers should read this entire report carefully and should consider among other things, the risks described below. Trade Name License. The Company has entered into a License Agreement with an affiliate of Crow Holdings that allows the Company to use the name “Trammell Crow” perpetually throughout the world in any business except the residential real estate business, although the Company can use this name in serving certain mixed-use properties or in providing investment sales brokerage services to buyers and sellers of multi-family residential facilities. This license can be revoked if the Company fails to maintain certain quality standards or infringes upon certain of the licensor’s intellectual property rights. If the Company loses the right to use the Trammell Crow name, the Company’s business could suffer significantly. The License Agreement permits certain existing uses of the name “Trammell Crow” by affiliates of Crow Holdings. The use of the Trammell Crow name or other similar names by third parties may create confusion or reduce the value associated with the Trammell Crow name. Economic Cyclicality. The Company is impacted by cycles in the general economy and the commercial real estate industry and, as a result, its growth strategy is directly impacted by those economic cycles. The commercial real estate market is cyclical and depends on the perceptions of real estate users and investors as to general economic conditions. Transaction volumes, rental rates, occupancy levels and sales prices are influenced by economic conditions and changes in such conditions could have a negative impact on the Company’s revenues. Because the Company’s investment strategy typically entails making relatively modest investments alongside its investor clients, its ability to conduct these activities depends in part on the supply of investment capital for commercial real estate and related assets. Changes in market perceptions or other 10 economic factors may lead to decreased availability of such capital, which could adversely impact the Company’s development and investment strategy. Furthermore, in real estate down-cycles, economic conditions may make certain development project pursuits less viable, and the Company may decide not to continue pursuing such projects. Consequently, the Company’s financial results in down cycles may be (and have been) adversely impacted by increased write-offs of pursuit costs that have been capitalized in connection with potential development projects that the Company has determined not to pursue or by impairment charges or reduced profitability related to declines in real estate values. Building occupancies and rental rates typically decline in an economic downturn. Therefore, it may take longer for the Company to dispose of real estate investments or the selling prices may be lower than originally anticipated. As a result, the carrying value of the Company’s real estate investments may become impaired and the Company could record losses as a result of such impairment or the Company could experience reduced profitability related to declines in real estate values. Real Estate Investment and Co-investment Activities. Selective investment in real estate projects is an important part of the Company’s strategy and there is an inherent risk of loss of the Company’s investment. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had 41 consolidated real estate projects with invested equity of $72.3 million and $18.6 million of notes payable on real estate that are recourse to the Company (beyond being recourse to the single-purpose entity that holds the real estate asset and is the primary obligor on the note payable). The estimated aggregate project cost of these consolidated real estate projects is $680.1 million. In addition, at December 31, 2005, the Company was involved as a principal (in most cases, co-investing with one of its clients) in 43 unconsolidated real estate subsidiaries in which the Company had invested $44.5 million and had committed additional capital to these unconsolidated subsidiaries of $14.5 million. The Company also guaranteed notes payable of these unconsolidated subsidiaries of $7.1 million. Because the disposition of a single significant investment can impact the Company’s financial performance in any period, its real estate investment activities could increase (and have historically increased) fluctuations in the Company’s net earnings and cash flow. In many cases, the Company has limited control over the timing of the disposition of these investments and the recognition of any related gain or loss. Recruiting and Retention of Qualified Personnel. The Company’s continued success is highly dependent on the efforts of its executive officers and key employees. If any of the Company’s key employees leave, its business may suffer. The growth of the Company’s business is also largely dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all areas of its business, including management. If the Company is unable to attract and retain such qualified personnel, it may be forced to limit its growth, and its business and operating results could suffer. Organizational changes within the Company could also impact its ability to retain personnel. Reliance on Major Clients and Contract Retention. A relatively small number of the Company’s clients generate a significant portion of its revenues. The Company’s ten largest clients accounted for approximately 30% of its total revenues in 2005, including one client (Bank of America Technology and Operations, Inc., which primarily receives services from the Company’s Global Services segment) that accounted for 13% of the Company’s total revenues. The loss of one or more of its major clients could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In 2005, revenue from property management and from user clients with whom the Company has outsourcing contracts constituted approximately 15% and 47%, respectively, of the Company’s total revenues. The Company’s property management contracts can generally be cancelled upon 30 to 60 days notice by the client. Its outsourcing services contracts are typically for multi-year terms with options to renew and may include provisions giving the customer certain early termination rights. Accordingly, contracts representing a significant percentage of the Company’s revenues may be terminated or may 11 expire in any given year. The Company has been successful in retaining and renewing a significant portion of its contracts but may not be able to do so in the future. Moreover, increased competition may force the Company to renew such contracts on less favorable terms. Long-Term Growth. The Company will continue to focus on additions to its base business that should be less impacted by economic down cycles over time and are expected to create long-term growth. The Company’s historical growth and any significant future growth will continue to place demands on the Company’s resources. The Company’s future success and profitability will depend, in part, on its ability to enhance its management and operating systems, manage and adapt to rapid changes in technology, obtain financing for capital expenditures or strategic acquisitions and retain employees and clients. The Company may not be able to successfully manage any significant expansion or obtain adequate financing for such expansion on favorable terms, if at all. Business Acquisitions. The Company may pursue strategic acquisitions in the future. However, the Company may not be able to acquire businesses on favorable terms, and may have to use a substantial portion of its capital resources for any such acquisitions. Challenges and issues commonly encountered in strategic acquisitions include: · diversion of management’s attention to assimilating the acquired business; · maintaining employment relationships with the Company’s employees and employees of an acquired business; · adverse short-term effects on operating results; · integrating financial and other administrative systems; · amortization or impairment of any acquired intangible assets; and · maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. In addition, the acquired businesses’ clients could cease to do business with the Company. Potential conflicts between the Company’s clients and those of an acquired business could threaten its business relationships. If the Company is not able to manage these risks, its business could suffer significantly. International Operations. The Company operates in several markets outside the United States and is subject to the risks common for international operations and investments in foreign countries. These risks include: · difficulties in staffing and managing geographically and culturally diverse, multi-national operations; · lack of familiarity with local business customs and operating environments; · changes in foreign tax laws; · changes in currency exchange rates; · limitations on repatriation of earnings; · restrictive actions by local governments; · nationalization and expropriation; and · acts of terror, war and civil disturbances. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results. In recent years, the Company’s revenues have been lower in each of the first three quarters than in the fourth quarter because its clients tend to close transactions toward the end of their fiscal years (typically the calendar year). This causes the Company to earn a 12 significant portion of its revenues under transaction-oriented service contracts or real estate transactions in the fourth quarter. In addition, a growing portion of the Company’s outsourcing contracts provide for bonus payments upon achieving certain performance targets. These incentive payments are generally earned in the fourth quarter. Furthermore, revenues can be influenced by the timing of significant individual transactions. The Company plans its capital and operating expenditures based on its expectations of future revenues. If revenues are below expectations in any given quarter, the Company may be unable to adjust expenditures to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. The Company’s business could suffer as a consequence. Competition. The Company competes in several market segments within the commercial real estate industry, each of which is highly competitive on an international, national and local level. The Company faces competition from other real estate services providers, consulting firms, in-house corporate real estate departments and developers. The adverse consequences of intense competition may include loss of clients and downward pressure on pricing. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in real estate ownership by REITs, many of which self-manage most of their real estate assets. If this trend continues, it could shrink the asset base available to be managed by third party service providers and decrease the demand for the Company’s services, thereby significantly increasing its competition. Environmental Liability. Various laws and regulations impose liability on real property owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at the property. In the Company’s role as a property or facility manager or developer, the Company could be held liable as an operator for such costs. This liability may be imposed without regard to the legality of the original actions and without regard to whether the Company knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. If the Company fails to disclose environmental issues, the Company could also be liable to a buyer or lessee of the property. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs incurred in connection with the contamination. If the Company incurs any such liability, its business could suffer significantly. Anti-takeover Considerations. Certain provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation, bylaws and certain provisions of Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including an attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for its common stock. These provisions include: · Staggered Board of Directors. The Company’s Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving terms currently expiring in 2006, 2007 and 2008. Because the Company’s Board of Directors is divided into classes, members of its Board of Directors may only be removed from office prior to the expiration of their terms if such removal is for “cause.” Therefore, the staggered terms of directors may limit the ability of holders of common stock to complete a change of control. · Stockholder Proposals. The Company’s stockholders must follow an advance notification procedure for certain stockholder nominations of candidates for the Company’s Board of Directors and for certain other business to be conducted at any stockholders’ meeting. This limitation on stockholder proposals could inhibit a change of control. · Special Meetings of the Stockholders. Subject to limited exceptions, special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or a majority of the members of the Board of Directors. This limitation on special meetings of the stockholders could inhibit a change of control. · Preferred Stock. The Company’s certificate of incorporation authorizes the Company’s Board of Directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock having such rights as may be 13 designated by the Company’s Board of Directors, without stockholder approval. The issuance of such preferred stock could inhibit a change of control. · Delaware Anti-takeover Statute. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders upon their acquiring 15% or more of the Company’s common stock. This statute may have the effect of inhibiting a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 