Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud that could seriously harm our business may occur and not be detected. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons or by collusion of two or more persons. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. A failure of our controls and procedures to detect error or fraud could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Our reserve information represents estimates that may turn out to be incorrect if the assumptions upon which these estimates are based are inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projected future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. The reserve data and standardized measures set forth herein represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact way and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. Further, the estimated future net revenues from proved reserves and the present value thereof are based upon certain assumptions, including geologic success, prices, future production levels and costs that may not prove correct over time. Predictions of future production levels are subject to great uncertainty, and the meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Historically, oil and gas prices have fluctuated widely. Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations. The Company competes with numerous other companies in virtually all facets of its business. The competitors in development, exploration, acquisitions and production include major integrated oil and gas companies as well as numerous independents, including many that have significantly greater resources. 16 Table of Contents Therefore, competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than the financial or personnel resources of the Company permit. The ability of the Company to increase reserves in the future will be dependent on its ability to select and acquire suitable prospects for future exploration and development. Factors that affect our ability to compete in the marketplace include: • our access to the capital necessary to drill wells and acquire properties; • our ability to acquire and analyze seismic, geological and other information relating to a property; • our ability to retain the personnel necessary to properly evaluate seismic and other information relating to a property; and • the location of, and our ability to access platforms, pipelines and other facilities used to produce and transport oil and gas production; Factors beyond our control affect our ability to market production and our financial results. The ability to market oil and natural gas depends on numerous factors beyond the Company’s control. These factors include: • the extent of domestic production and imports of oil and natural gas; • the availability of pipeline capacity; • the effects of inclement weather; • the demand for oil and natural gas by utilities and other end users; • the availability of alternative fuel sources; • the proximity of natural gas production to natural gas pipelines; • state and federal regulations of oil and natural gas marketing; and • federal regulation of natural gas sold or transported in interstate commerce. Because of these factors, the Company may be unable to market all of the oil and natural gas that it produces, including oil and natural gas that may be produced from the Bohai Bay properties in China. In addition, the Company may be unable to obtain favorable prices for the oil and natural gas it produces. We may experience a temporary decline in revenues if we lose one of our significant customers. In 2005, the Company had three significant customers, CNOOC, Occidental Energy Marketing, Inc. and Sempra Energy Trading, that individually accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s total natural gas and oil sales. To the extent these or any other significant customer reduces the volume of its oil or gas purchases from us, we could experience a temporary interruption in sales of, or a lower price for, our oil and natural gas. A decrease in oil and gas prices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s revenues are determined, to a large degree, by prevailing natural gas prices for production situated in the Rocky Mountain Region of the United States, specifically, southwest Wyoming, as well as prevailing prices for crude oil produced in the Bohai Bay region of China. Energy commodity prices in general, and the Company’s regional prices in particular, have been highly volatile in the past, and such high levels of volatility are expected to continue in the future. The Company cannot accurately predict or control the market prices that it receives for the sale of its natural gas, condensate, or oil production. Prices for oil and gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond the Company’s control. These factors include but are not limited to weather conditions in the United States, the condition of the United States economy, the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, governmental 17 Table of Contents regulation, political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere, the foreign supply of oil and gas, the price of foreign oil and gas imports and the availability of alternate fuel sources and transportation interruption. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil or gas could have an adverse effect on the carrying value of the Company’s proved reserves, borrowing capacity, the Company’s ability to obtain additional capital, and the Company’s revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations. Volatile oil and gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and divestiture and often cause disruption in the market for oil and gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and development and exploitation projects. A price decrease may more adversely affect the price received for the Company’s Wyoming production than production in other U.S. regions. The price of natural gas in the southwest Wyoming region is critical to the Company’s business. The market price for this natural gas differs from the market indices for natural gas in the Gulf Coast region of the United States due potentially to insufficient pipeline capacity and/or low demand in the summer months for natural gas in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States. Therefore, a price decrease may more adversely affect the price received for the Company’s Wyoming production than production in the other U.S. regions. There have been, from time to time, numerous proposed pipeline projects, including the Rockies Express Pipeline, that have been announced to transport Rockies’ and Wyoming natural gas production to markets. There can be no assurance that such infrastructure will be built or that if built, it will prevent large basis differentials from occurring in the future. Compliance with environmental and other government regulations could be costly and could negatively impact production. The Company’s operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may: • require that the Company acquire permits before commencing drilling; • restrict the substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas; • require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells; and • require governmental approval of the overall development plan prior to the start of development of fields in China. Under these laws and regulations, the Company could be liable for personal injury and clean-up costs and other environmental and property damages, as well as administrative, civil and criminal penalties. The Company maintains limited insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages, but does not maintain insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden and accidental environmental damages. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to liability or may be required to cease production from properties in the event of environmental damages. A significant percentage of the Company’s United States operations are conducted on federal lands. These operations are subject to a variety of on-site security regulations as well as other permits and authorizations issued by the BLM, the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality and other agencies. A portion of the Company’s acreage is affected by winter lease stipulations that prohibit exploration, drilling and completing activities generally from November 15th to April 30th, but allow production activities all year round. To drill wells in Wyoming, the Company is required to file an Application for Permit to Drill with the WOGCC. Drilling on acreage controlled by the federal government requires the filing of a similar application 18 Table of Contents with the BLM. These permitting requirements may adversely affect the Company’s ability to complete its drilling program at the cost and in the time period currently anticipated. On large-scale projects, lessees may be required to perform an EIS to assess the environmental impact of potential development, which can delay project implementation and/or result in the imposition of environmental restrictions that could have a material impact on cost or scope. We may not be able to replace our reserves or generate cash flows if we are unable to raise capital. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to develop our existing reserves and to discover new oil and gas reserves. The Company’s ability to continue exploration and development of its properties and to replace reserves may be dependent upon its ability to continue to raise significant additional financing, including debt financing that may be significant, or obtain some other arrangements with industry partners in lieu of raising financing. Any arrangements that may be entered into could be expensive to the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise additional capital in light of factors such as the market demand for its securities, the state of financial markets for independent oil and gas companies (including the markets for debt), oil and gas prices and general market conditions. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of the Company’s capital budget. The Company expects to continue using its bank credit facility to borrow funds to supplement its available cash flow. The amount the Company may borrow under the credit facility may not exceed a borrowing base determined by the lenders based on their projections of the Company’s future production, future production costs and taxes, commodity prices and other factors. The Company cannot control the assumptions the lenders use to calculate the borrowing base. The lenders may, without the Company’s consent, adjust the borrowing base at any time. If the Company’s borrowings under the credit facility exceed the borrowing base, the lenders may require that the Company repay the excess. If this were to occur, the Company may have to sell assets or seek financing from other sources. The Company can make no assurances that it would be successful in selling assets or arranging substitute financing. For a description of the bank credit facility and its principal terms and conditions, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The Company’s operations may be interrupted by severe weather, particularly in the Rocky Mountain region. The Company’s operations are conducted principally in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States. The weather in this area can be extreme and can cause interruption in the Company’s exploration and production operations. Moreover, especially severe weather can result in damage to facilities entailing longer operational interruptions and significant capital investment. Likewise, the Company’s Rocky Mountain operations are subject to disruption from winter storms and severe cold, which can limit operations involving fluids and impair access to the Company’s facilities. A portion of the Company’s acreage is affected by winter lease stipulations that restrict the period of time during which operations may be conducted on the leases. The Company’s leases that are affected by the winter stipulations prohibit drilling and completing activities from November 15th to April 30th, but allow production activities all year round. Our focus on exploration projects increases the risks inherent in our oil and gas activities. The Company has historically invested a significant portion of its capital budget in drilling exploratory wells in search of unproved oil and gas reserves. The Company cannot be certain that the exploratory wells it drills will be productive or that it will recover all or any portion of its investments. In order to increase the chances for exploratory success, the Company often invests in seismic or other geoscience data to assist it in identifying potential drilling objectives. Additionally, the cost of drilling, completing and testing exploratory wells is often uncertain at the time of the Company’s initial investment. Depending on complications encountered while drilling, the final cost of the well may significantly exceed that which the Company originally estimated. The Company uses the full cost method of accounting for exploration and development 19 Table of Contents activities as defined by the SEC. Under this method of accounting, the costs of unsuccessful, as well as successful, exploration and development activities are capitalized as properties and equipment and are then depleted using the unit of production method based on the Company’s proved reserves. Unless we are able to replace reserves which we have produced, our cash flows and production will decrease over time. The Company’s future success may depend on its ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Without successful exploration, development or acquisition activities, the Company’s reserves and production will decline. The Company can give no assurance that it will be able to find, develop or acquire additional reserves at acceptable costs. We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. The oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including fire, explosion, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, and discharges of toxic gases. The occurrence of any of these events with respect to any property operated or owned (in whole or in part) by the Company could have a material adverse impact on the Company. The Company and the operators of its properties maintain insurance in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that management believes to be reasonable. However, insurance coverage is not always economically feasible and is not obtained to cover all types of operational risks. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. There are risks associated with our drilling activity that could impact the results of our operations. The Company’s oil and gas operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with drilling for, and production and transportation of, oil and gas. These risks include the necessity of spending large amounts of money for identification and acquisition of properties and for drilling and completion of wells. In the drilling of exploratory or development wells, failures and losses may occur before any deposits of oil or gas are found. The presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, blow-outs or accidents may cause such activity to be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of the Company’s investment in such activity. If oil or gas is encountered, there can be no assurance that it can be produced in quantities sufficient to justify the cost of continuing such operations or that it can be marketed satisfactorily. Our decision to drill a prospect is subject to a number of factors and we may decide to alter our drilling schedule or not drill at all. This report includes certain descriptions of the Company’s future drilling plans with respect to its prospects. A prospect is an area which the Company’s geoscientists have identified what they believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be indications of hydrocarbons. The Company’s prospects are in various stages of review. Whether or not the Company ultimately drills a prospect may depend on the following factors: • receipt of additional seismic data or reprocessing of existing data; • material changes in oil or gas prices; • the costs and availability of drilling equipment; • success or failure of wells drilled in similar formations or which would use the same production facilities; • availability and cost of capital; • changes in the estimates of costs to drill or complete wells; 20 Table of Contents • the approval of partners to participate in the drilling or, in the case of CNOOC, approval of expenditures for budget purposes; • the Company’s ability to attract other industry partners to acquire a portion of the working interest to reduce exposure to costs and drilling risks; • decisions of the Company’s joint working interest owners; and • the BLM’s interpretation of an EIS and the results of the permitting process. The Company will continue to gather data about its prospects, and it is possible that additional information may cause the Company to alter its drilling schedule or determine that a prospect should not be pursued at all. If oil and gas prices decrease, we may be required to take writedowns of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties. The Company follows the full cost method of accounting for its oil and gas properties. A separate cost center is maintained for expenditures applicable to each country in which the Company conducts exploration and/or production activities. Under such method, the net book value of properties on a country-by-country basis, less related deferred income taxes, may not exceed a calculated “ceiling.” The ceiling is the estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and gas properties, discounted at 10% per year. In calculating discounted future net revenues, oil and gas prices in effect at the time of the calculation are held constant, except for changes which are fixed and determinable by existing contracts. The net book value is compared to the ceiling on a quarterly basis. The excess, if any, of the net book value above the ceiling is required to be written off as an expense. Under SEC full cost accounting rules, any write-off recorded may not be reversed even if higher oil and gas prices increase the ceiling applicable to future periods. Future price decreases could result in reductions in the carrying value of such assets and an equivalent charge to earnings. We are not the operator, and have limited influence over the operations, of our Bohai Bay properties. Because the Company is not the operator and holds a minority interest, it cannot control the pace of exploration or development in the Bohai Bay properties or major decisions affecting the drilling of wells or the plan for development and production, although contract provisions give the Company certain consent rights in some matters. Kerr-McGee’s influence, as operator, over these matters can affect the pace at which the Company spends money on this project. If Kerr-McGee were to shift its focus from this project, the pace of development could slow down or stop altogether. On the other hand, if Kerr-McGee were to decide to accelerate development of this project, the Company could be required to fund its share of costs at a faster pace than anticipated, which might exceed its ability to raise funds. If, because of this, the Company were unable to pay its share of costs, it could lose or be forced to sell its interest in the Bohai Bay properties or be forced to not participate in the exploration or development of specific prospects or fields, potentially diminishing the value of its Bohai Bay assets. Political, economic or legal factors associated with our ownership of properties in China could impact the results of our operations. Ownership of property interests and production operations in areas outside the United States are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks may include: • loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of expropriation, nationalization, war or insurrections; • increases in taxes and governmental royalties; • renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities and quasi-governmental agencies; • change in laws and policies governing operations of foreign based companies; • labor problems; 21 Table of Contents • other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over its international operations; and • currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations. Tensions between China and its neighbors or various western countries, regional political or military disruption, changes in internal Chinese leadership, social or political disruptions within China, a downturn in the Chinese economy, or a change in Chinese laws or attitudes toward foreign investment could make China an unfavorable environment in which to invest. Although all the foreign interest owners in the Bohai Bay properties have the right to sell production in the world market, the regulation of the concession by China, and the likely participation by CNOOC as a large working interest owner, make Chinese internal and external affairs important to the investment in the Bohai Bay property. If any of these negative events were to occur, it could lead to a decision that there is an intolerable level of risk in continuing with the investment, or the Company may be unable to attract equity investors or lenders, or satisfy any then existing lenders. In the event of a dispute arising from foreign operations, the Company may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States or a potentially more favorable country. In addition, the Company’s China PSC terminates after 15 years of production, unless extended as provided for, which may be prior to the end of the productive life of the fields. Our operations in China have special operational risks that may negatively affect the value of those assets. Offshore operations, such as the Company’s Bohai Bay properties, are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and/or loss from storms or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, the Company could incur substantial liabilities that could result in financial losses or failures. China has many regulations similar to those addressed in Item 1, Environmental Regulation, that may expose the Company to liability. Offshore projects, like the China field developments, are typically large, complex construction projects that are potentially subject to delays which may cause delays in achieving production and profitability. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains or incorporates by reference forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this document, including without limitation, statements in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding our financial position, estimated quantities and net present values of reserves, business strategy, plans and objectives of the Company’s management for future operations, covenant compliance and those statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words “believe”, “expects”, “anticipates”, “intends”, “estimates”, “projects”, “target”, “goal”, “plans”, “objective”, “should”, or similar expressions or variations on such expressions are forward-looking statements. The Company can give no assurances that the assumptions upon which such forward-looking statements are based will prove to be correct. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding: • our oil and gas reserve quantities, and the discounted present value of those reserves; • the amount and nature of our capital expenditures; • drilling of wells; • the timing and amount of future production and operating costs; 22 Table of Contents • business strategies and plans of management; and • prospect development and property acquisitions. Some of the risks which could affect our future results and could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: • general economic conditions; • the volatility of oil and natural gas prices; • the uncertainty of estimates of oil and natural gas reserves; • the impact of competition; • the availability and cost of seismic, drilling and other equipment; • operating hazards inherent in the explorations for and production of oil and natural gas; • difficulties encountered during the explorations for and production of oil and natural gas; • difficulties encountered in delivering oil and natural gas to commercial markets; • changes in customer demand and producers’ supply; • the uncertainty of our ability to attract capital; • compliance with, or the effect of changes in, the extensive governmental regulations regarding the oil and natural gas business; • actions of operators of our oil and gas properties; and • weather conditions. The information contained in this report, including the information set forth under the heading “Risk Factors,” identifies additional factors that could affect our operating results and performance. We urge you to carefully consider these factors and the other cautionary statements in this report. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we have no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 